 Kier Group plc Annual Report 2014
Kier Group plc Annual Report 2014
Creating platforms  
for growth Strategic report Governance Financial statements
1  Financial highlights
2 Kier at a glance
4 Kier Group capabilities
6 Chairman’s statement
8  Our markets
10  Chief Executive’s strategic review
14 Our business model
16  Our vision and strategic priorities
18 Strategy in action
26  Key performance indicators
28   Resources, relationships and 
sustainability
32  Principal risks and uncertainties
34   Divisional review: Property and 
Residential
38 Divisional review: Construction
42 Divisional review: Services
46 Financial review
52 Chairman’s introduction
54 Board of directors
56  Corporate governance statement 
60  Nomination Committee report 
62   Safety, Health and Environment 
Committee report 
63   Risk Management and Audit 
Committee report
67   Directors’ remuneration report
86  Directors’ report
89 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
90 Independent auditor’s report
93 Consolidated income statement
94   Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
94  Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity
95  Consolidated balance sheet
96 Consolidated cash flow statement
97  Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements
133  Company balance sheet
134  Notes to the Company financial 
statements
136  Principal operating subsidiaries and 
business units
137  Principal joint arrangements
138 Financial record
139 Corporate information
The Property division 
provides property 
development and structured  
project finance. 
Chief Executive’s strategic review
Haydn Mursell took over as chief executive of Kier on 
1 July 2014. Read about his priorities for the future and 
how the Group’s breadth of capability provides a strong 
platform for growth.
See page 10 for more
How we create value
In the strategic review learn about the Group’s vision 
and business model and how its integrated offering 
will strengthen the Group’s relationships with its clients. 
See page 14 for more
Essential read
See page 38 for more See page 42 for more See page 34 for more See page 34 for more
The Construction 
division comprises regional 
building, major projects, 
infrastructure and 
international operations.
The Services 
division comprises  
highways maintenance, 
utilities, facilities 
management, 
housing maintenance, 
environmental and fleet 
& passenger services.
The Residential division, 
known as Kier Living, brings 
together all of Kier’s house 
building operations from 
contracting and mixed 
tenure housing to private 
sector housing.
Construction Property Services Residential
Excel
Optimise
Deliver
Safe Sustainable
Renew
Build
Renew
Maintain
Invest
     Property  
        Residential  
       Construction                    Services Financial highlights
Kier is a leading property, residential, construction 
and services group which invests in, builds, maintains 
and renews the places where we work, live and play. 
We operate across a range of sectors including 
defence, education, housing, industrials, power, 
transport and utilities. 
The Group employs over 15,000 people in its operations in 
the UK, the Caribbean, the Middle East and Hong Kong.
Revenue (£m)
£2,985m +51%
14 2,985
13 1,983
12 2,069
11 2,179
10 2,099
Underlying profit before tax* (£m)
£73.1m +54%
14 73.1
13 47.6
†
12 60.0
†
11 58.6
†
10 57.4
†
Net cash/(debt) balances (£m)
£(123)m 
14 (123)
13 60
12 129
11 165
10 175
Dividend per share (pence)
72.0p +6%
14 72.0
13 68.0
12 66.0
11 64.0
10 58.0
Order book (£bn)
£6.2bn +47%
14 6.2
13 4.3
12 4.3
11 4.3
10 4.2
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31 page 132).
* Underlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before exceptional items totalling £42.2m (2013: £17.0m), amortisation 
of intangible assets relating to contract rights of £10.8m (2013: £3.4m) and unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value 
adjustments made on acquisition of £5.3m (2013: £1.3m). Reported operating profit was £35.0m (2013: £35.1m), reported pre-tax profit was £14.8m 
(2013: £25.9m) and reported EPS was 18.4p (2013: 62.6p). 2013 results have been restated to reflect this presentation (see note 4 page 106). 
Underlying earnings per share* (pence)
107.7p +2%
14 107.7
13 105.6
†
12 136.9
†
11 127.9
†
10 121.3
†
1
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Kier at a glance
Across our four divisions we provide a range of capabilities to meet 
the broad requirements of our customers. 
Increasingly customers are drawing on expertise from across the 
Group to help them solve the problems they face and maximise 
their assets. 
Property
The Property division encompasses property development 
and structured project finance.
Residential
From 1 July 2014, the new Residential division, known as Kier Living, 
was created. It brings together all Kier’s house building operations from 
contracting and mixed tenure housing partnerships to private house building. 
Its clients include local authorities, housing associations and the private 
rented sector.
Construction
The Construction division encompasses our UK regional, major projects, 
infrastructure and international businesses.
Key strengths include market leading positions, geographic coverage, 
flexible project size, strength across many market sectors and positioning 
on strategic frameworks.
Services
The Services division comprises highways maintenance, utilities, facilities 
management (FM), housing maintenance, environmental and fleet & 
passenger services. 
Key strengths include strong client relationships, a broad range of service 
offerings and a record of partnering with clients.
See page 34 for more information
See page 34 for more information
See page 38 for more information
See page 42 for more information
2
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Property development
PFI and structured 
finance
Revenue
84%
16%
Contracting
Mixed tenure housing
Private house building
Revenue
48%
21%
31%
Building
Major projects
Infrastructure
International
Revenue
25%
10%
59%
6%
Utilities
Housing 
maintenance
Highways 
maintenance
FM
Environmental
Fleet & passenger 
services
Revenue
13%
23%
26%
3%
25%
10%
1
 Underlying operating profits and margins are stated before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights. Reported 
operating profit was as follows: Property and Residential £18.5m (2013: £20.5m), Construction £25.4m (2013: £21.4m), Services £32.6m (2013: £9.3m).
Operating profit
1
Average capital
£16.0m
(2013: £16.2m)
£(61)m
(2013: £(57)m)
Number of employees
63
(2013: 57)
Operating profit
1
Average capital
£5.0m
(2013: £4.3m)
£(233)m
(2013: £(247)m)
Number of employees
348
(2013: 293)
Operating profit
1
Operating margin
1
£33.6m
(2013: £30.4m)
2.1%
(2013: 2.3%)
Number of employees Order book
3,720
(2013: 3,911)
£2.5bn
(2013: £2.3bn)
Operating profit
1
Operating margin
1
£53.3m
(2013: £19.3m)
4.8%
(2013: 4.4%)
Number of employees Order book
10,813
(2013: 5,595)
£3.7bn
(2013: £2.0bn)
3
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Kier Group 
capabilities
Property
• Asset management
•  B e s p ok e o c cu p i e r 
solutions
• Joint ventures
• Owner occupiers
• Partnerships
• Project development
• Property development
• Project investment
• Retail regeneration
• Structured finance
Residential
• Affordable housing
• Living space
• Mixed use communities
•  P r i v at e r e si de n t i a l 
housing
• Regeneration
Kier is all around us… from engineering the tunnels and the bridges that 
transform cities …to keeping the lights shining in our streets …to building 
award winning homes, schools and hospitals …to keeping our water, rail 
and highways running smoothly. Our job is to keep our world working.
4
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 We have a broad range of capabilities. We help our customers maximise 
the value they derive from their assets by negotiating finance and planning 
permissions, constructing major buildings and infrastructure, providing 
facilities management and environmental services and even keeping water, 
rail and highways running smoothly.
Construction
• Building
• Civil engineering
•  C on s t r u c t i on 
management
• Engineering design
•  I n t e r i or s a n d 
refurbishment
•  M e c h an i c a l 
and electrical
• Mining
• Rail services
• Technical services
Services
• Asset management
•  E ne r g y m a n a g e me n t 
services
• Environmental services
• Facilities management
•  Fleet & passenger 
services
• Highway services
• Housing maintenance
• Utilities services
• Waterway services
5
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Chairman’s statement
A robust business
2014 was a successful year for Kier. I am pleased to report a 
good set of results for the Group which build on the positive 
performance of recent years.
The results
The 2014 financial year was a successful one for the 
business and, once again, I am pleased to report a good 
set of results for the Group. We continue to build on the 
positive performance of recent years and are particularly 
pleased to see the benefits of the May Gurney acquisition, 
which transformed the scale and diversity of the Group, 
being realised.
Before discussing the results, I want to explain some 
changes to the form of this report. Regulatory requirements 
have become ever more onerous and you will see that this 
year’s report is written in a different style to those which 
we have produced in previous years. As a Board, we have 
recognised the requirement for the information contained 
in this annual report to be fair, balanced and understandable 
and to contain the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s performance, business model and 
strategy. We have therefore focused on describing our 
refreshed strategy for growth – ‘Vision 2020’ – which has 
also provided us with an opportunity to demonstrate the 
new business model so as to set out, in a transparent way, 
how the Group operates. I hope you find the additional 
information helpful.
In the year to 30 June 2014, Group profit before tax* 
was £73.1m (2013: £47.6m)
†
 with full year underlying 
earnings per share* of 107.7p (2013: 105.6p)
†
, in line 
with expectations. The Group continued to convert profit 
to cash and manage hard its working capital. Average 
Group month-end net debt was £140m (2013: £4m), 
a good result given the continuing pressure on working 
capital and the acquisition of May Gurney. 
Dividend
To reflect the Group’s progressive dividend policy and 
the Board’s continued confidence in the Group, a total 
dividend for the year of 72.0p, a 6% increase, is proposed. 
The final dividend of 49.5p will be paid on 28 November 
2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 26 September 2014. A scrip dividend 
alternative will also be available.
Strategy
Kier is all around us – we invest in, build, maintain and 
renew places where we all work, live and play. Following 
the appointment of the new chief executive, the Board 
has re-defined the strategy of the Group. Our refreshed 
focus is to develop the business significantly over the next 
five years whilst delivering a safe, robust, sustainable and 
optimised performance from efficient business processes. 
The following strategic review sets out how we aim to 
deliver on our future plan.
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31 page 132).
* Underlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before exceptional items totalling £42.2m (2013: £17.0m), amortisation of intangible 
assets relating to contract rights of £10.8m (2013: £3.4m) and unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on 
acquisition of £5.3m (2013: £1.3m). Reported operating profit was £35.0m (2013: £35.1m), reported pre-tax profit was £14.8m (2013: £25.9m) and reported 
EPS was 18.4p (2013: 62.6p). 2013 results have been restated to reflect this presentation (see note 4 page 106).
6
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 For details of key governance committees please see:
Governance
Nomination  
Committee
See page 60 for more information
Risk Management and 
Audit Committee
See page 63 for more information
Safety, Health and 
Environment Committee
See page 62 for more information
Directors’ Remuneration 
Report
See page 67 for more information
The Board
During the year, a number of changes to the Board took 
place. In February, it was announced that Paul Sheffield 
would step down as chief executive from the Board with 
effect from 30 June 2014. Paul joined Kier in 1983 
and his contribution over 30 years to the Group was 
considerable, most recently overseeing the acquisition 
and integration of May Gurney. The Board thanks Paul 
for his contribution to Kier and we wish him well for the 
future. As part of our succession planning, Haydn Mursell, 
previously the finance director, took up the role of chief 
executive on 1 July.
Today, I am pleased to announce that Beverley Dew 
will be joining the Group as finance director. A further 
announcement will be made in due course to confirm 
the date on which his appointment will become effective.
In February, Chris Geoghegan retired from the Board. 
Richard Bailey assumed the role of senior independent 
non-executive director, in addition to his role as chairman 
of the Risk Management and Audit Committee. Amanda 
Mellor became the chair of the Remuneration Committee 
and I took over as chair of the Nomination Committee.
On 1 September, Kirsty Bashforth joined the Board as 
a non-executive director. With over 20 years’ experience 
with BP plc, Kirsty brings a broad range of skills and 
experience, particularly in organisational effectiveness 
and business improvement. I would like to welcome Kirsty 
to the Board. 
Our people
Kier’s success lies in its ability to recruit, retain and develop 
the skills of its employees. Against a climate of increasing 
market demand, there are additional pressures to ensure 
we have the right teams in place. We are ever mindful of our 
responsibility to invest in our teams, ensuring we give them 
the opportunity to grow their skills. We aim to excel and 
create an engaging and stimulating environment for our 
people. I am pleased that at Kier we have an experienced 
team with ambition for the Group. I would like to take this 
opportunity on behalf of the Board to thank all our employees 
for their commitment, professionalism and sheer hard work 
during the year.
Outlook
These results demonstrate the continued strength of the 
Group. The business offers a broad set of capabilities 
which, when combined with a strong regional presence, 
provides a resilient operating platform. Accordingly, our 
UK divisions are increasingly providing a more integrated 
offering to customers. The portfolio of Group businesses 
is also a natural hedge against the cyclical nature of the 
markets in which we operate, with our Property and 
Residential businesses at the front, while the Construction 
and Services businesses come into their own at the back 
of the cycle.
Dividend per share
72.0p +6%
(2013: 68.0p)
Earnings per share*
107.7p +2%
(2013: 105.6p)
†
I am pleased to report a good set of results that show 
significant progress on last year and demonstrate the 
strength of the operational performance of the business 
and the benefits of the May Gurney acquisition.
Despite inflationary price and labour cost pressures in 
the market, our margins remained solid, particularly in 
our Services business. Following the integration of May 
Gurney, which transformed the scale and diversity of the 
Group, the breadth of our capabilities has resulted in new 
as well as larger contract awards. We are now able to help 
our customers maximise the value of their assets as they 
invest, build, maintain and renew them. Our capabilities 
extend from negotiating finance and planning permissions 
to constructing major buildings and infrastructure, as well 
as providing facilities management and environmental 
services. This breadth of capabilities puts us in a good 
position to pursue future growth.
While the economic climate continues to be positive, 
operating margins are under pressure due to inflationary 
cost increases in the supply chain. Cash generation will 
continue to be constrained in the short-term. However, 
strong risk management and our ability to offer a greater 
range of service offerings positions us well for the future.
The continuing improvements in our operating performance 
and our strong order book mean that we are on course to 
meet the Board’s expectations for the current financial year.
Phil White 
Chairman
7
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Our markets 
As most of Kier’s markets return to growth and with an increased 
range of capabilities, we are well placed to take advantage of 
increasing opportunities in the UK and internationally.
The Group seeks to achieve top three sector leadership positions 
in its chosen markets. This will be achieved by expanding our 
existing capabilities into adjacent market sectors and developing 
or acquiring new complementary capabilities in existing markets.
Property
Residential
With our newly configured Residential division and our primary focus on innovative products in the mixed tenure 
marketplace, we are well placed to benefit from growth in the house building market.
Market highlights
• Total UK output in 2013 of 123,000 new homes.
• Forecast growth in output of greater than 10% pa 
to c167,000 new homes by 2018 (Source: Savills).
• House price inflation expected to stabilise around 3%  
in the medium-term.
Market commentary 
• Output is forecast to remain significantly below government 
targets and projected household growth.
• Government initiatives such as Help-to-Buy, New Homes Bonus 
and Build-to-Rent expected to continue in the medium-term. 
• Affordability of housing remains a key issue. 
• Building of new homes for housing associations and local 
authorities increasing from 23% of output in 2013 to 26% 
by 2018 (Source: Savills).
Projected household growth, additions/starts & 
house price inflation
0
50,000
100,000
150,000
200,000
250,000
-4%
-2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
  Net additions/starts
Sources: Experian, Knight Frank, management estimates
  Household growth  House price inflation
No. of units
Inflation
With our focused non speculative development offering, our equity investment capability and the Group’s integrated 
offering, Kier has a major opportunity to increase investment in and penetration of property markets.
Market highlights
• 2013 total commercial property investment of £53bn 
(Source: Savills), up 57% on 2012.
• More than 50% of investment is in Greater London, with regional 
markets recovering to account for 45% of investment in 2013, 
up 41% on 2012.
• Development of new commercial property totalled 50m sqft, 
valued at £11bn (Source: British Property Federation).
Market commentary 
• Occupier demand is improving.
• Weight of money is driving valuations higher.
• Prospects look stable with potential for selective growth.
8
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Construction
Services
We have a leading position in UK regional building and the health and education construction markets with a growing 
presence in infrastructure and defence. Internationally, we selectively pursue opportunities to increase our geographic 
footprint and extend into new sectors.
UK – Market highlights
• 2013 new construction work (excluding residential) was valued 
at £47bn (Source: ONS).
• Forecast growth of 5% pa to 2017 (Source: CPA).
• Building output valued at £34bn in 2013; forecast to grow  
at 3% pa to 2017 (Source: CPA).
• Infrastructure output valued at £13bn in 2013; forecast to grow 
at 5% pa to 2017 (Source: CPA).
UK – Market commentary 
• Building market growth will be driven by private sector recovery, 
notably in the office, commercial, industrial and retail markets.
• Infrastructure market growth anticipated to be c10% in 2014 
driven by rail and road investment (Source: Experian, CPA). 
• Medium-term growth in infrastructure driven by  
increased investment in energy.
• Kier’s addressable UK construction market in 2013  
was estimated at £32bn of the total of £47bn.
• Inflationary cost pressures will persist as the  
market recovers.
UK Construction – new work  
(2012 prices)
We play a major role in housing maintenance, local authority highways and water utilities, with opportunity to expand 
in our facilities management and adjacent markets.
Market highlights
• Total market size was £81bn pa (Source: Credo, BSA, ONS).
• Forecast support services growth of 2–4% pa.
Market commentary 
• The facilities management market is our largest addressable 
segment at £44bn pa with c30% of expenditure in the public 
sector, it presents a significant growth opportunity in both 
public and private sectors. 
• Utilities markets are valued at £18bn with forecast growth 
of 3–5% pa to 2018.
• Outsourced expenditure on social and private rented housing 
maintenance is estimated to be £5.1bn pa; local authorities 
and housing associations account for c90%.
• The outsourced highways maintenance market is estimated 
to be worth c£2.4bn.
• ‘Austerity’ will continue to place pressure on public sector 
budgets, driving outsourcing opportunities and innovation.
UK Services – Market size and growth
Source: ONS, CPA
International – Market highlights and 
commentary
• Total construction expenditure by the Gulf Co-operation 
Council states (GCC) was cUS$90bn in 2013 
(Source: Deloitte). 
• Infrastructure investment (transport and energy) are the 
largest segments in the UAE and Saudi Arabian markets.
• UAE and Saudi Arabia account for c80% of the GCC 
construction output. 
• Far East Asia construction markets were valued at 
US$300bn in 2013 (Source: Aecom).
• Forecast growth in Far East Asia is c5% pa to 2018 
(Source: Aecom). Caribbean 
£2–3bn
KSA  
$30bn
Qatar $8bn
Other  
$8bn
Hong 
Kong 
$14bn
Vietnam 
$19bn
Other 
$66bn
Malaysia 
$18bn
Indonesia 
$138bn
Sources: BSA Oxford Economics, Credo, ONS
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
£m
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
  Building new work  Infrastructure new work
Sources: ONS, CPA
Water and sewerage
Electricity
Gas, air and comms
Rail
Harbours
Roads
New infrastructure
output by sector
2013
 
Education
Health
Other public
Offices
Retail
Entertainment
Other commercial
Industrial
Non-residential new 
building output by sector
2013
 
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
70,000
80,000
90,000
100,000
£m
13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19
UAE  
$41bn
Sources: Aecom, Deloitte, management estimates
9
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Chief Executive’s strategic review 
New chief executive, Haydn Mursell, talks about his strategic 
vision for Kier designed to create sustainable value for clients 
and shareholders.
Revenue
£2,985m +51%
(2013: £1,983m)
Underlying operating profit*
£88.0m +59%
(2013: £55.5m)
†
Combined Construction  
and Services order book
£6.2bn +47%
(2013: £4.3bn)
Q You’ve been chief executive of Kier for only 
a short time. What have been your main priorities 
to date?
After four years as Kier’s finance director, I feel privileged 
to take over as chief executive, particularly at a time 
when markets appear to be recovering after a number of 
years of recession. I would like to thank my predecessor, 
Paul Sheffield, who steered Kier during these challenging 
years whilst maintaining excellent client relationships. 
We are now positioned to exploit the opportunities 
which are available to us across all our target markets.
My key priority since taking up the post has been to 
meet as many of our clients as possible and learn from their 
experience of working with us. I have also spent time with 
our people, listening to their feedback and looking at how 
we continue to make Kier a stimulating and enjoyable place 
to work. We want and need a motivated, ambitious team to 
deliver our strategic goals, Vision 2020.
I would like to thank everyone in Kier for taking on all the 
challenges brought by the significant changes that have 
taken place in the business during this year, as a result of 
the May Gurney acquisition, and the drive to improve the 
efficiency and cost base of the Group.
Over the next few months, my focus will be on communicating 
Vision 2020 throughout the Group. I shall highlight the wide 
spectrum of capabilities that we can now offer to our clients, 
and the opportunity we have to accelerate growth in our 
core markets.
Q Safety is a big aspect of your operations, 
where does this fit into your priorities?
Operating safely is a must. Every accident is preventable. It 
is part of our future vision to have a zero Accident Incidence 
Rate (AIR) right across Kier. We are already achieving this 
across some of our operations. We have significantly 
reduced the rate of accidents within the May Gurney 
business since we acquired it in 2013. However, despite 
this improving trend, there were two fatalities during the 
year in our joint venture operations, one in Hong Kong and 
one on the Crossrail project. Both accidents are currently 
subject to further investigations. They are a stark reminder 
that we can always do better.
Q Can you summarise the results for 2013/14, and 
tell us how good a platform they provide for the next 
year and beyond?
Last year saw significant progress for the business; a further 
expansion of our regional building operation, new opportunities 
in infrastructure as greater investment is made by the UK 
Government, expansion of our international footprint as well 
as the successful integration of May Gurney. We also 
improved the efficiency of the business through our 
restructuring and cost control programme.
Against this background, we delivered another good 
set of results in line with our expectations. We achieved 
underlying profit before tax* of £73.1m and a net debt 
position of £123m even after both the acquisition of May 
Gurney and the continued investment in the business 
to drive future growth.
Revenue in our Construction division grew significantly 
to around £1.6bn, reflecting a market recovery and strong 
growth in our infrastructure and international businesses. 
The Construction division also produced a 2.1% margin*, 
which was better than the market average. Looking ahead, 
we have secured more than 90% of revenues for the 
coming year.
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31 page 132).
* Underlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before exceptional items totalling £42.2m (2013: £17.0m), 
amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights of £10.8m (2013: £3.4m) and unwind of discount in respect of deferred 
consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition of £5.3m (2013: £1.3m). Reported operating profit was £35.0m 
(2013: £35.1m), reported pre-tax profit was £14.8m (2013: £25.9m) and reported EPS was 18.4p (2013: 62.6p). 2013 results 
have been restated to reflect this presentation (see note 4 page 106).
10
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Services division delivered revenues of £1.1bn at a 
robust margin* of 4.8%, reflecting the stronger and more 
diverse mix of services in our portfolio and the £5m of cost 
synergies that we anticipated at the time of the May Gurney 
acquisition. We continue to work at the loss-making 
environmental contracts and are making progress in our 
discussions with those clients. Next year looks promising 
with more than 90% of revenues already secured following 
some excellent recent contract wins in the utilities sector.
Our Property division, including the residential activities 
which will be reported separately in next year’s report 
and accounts, delivered operating profit* of £21.0m, with 
property developments producing a return on capital of 
15%. This was another good performance by a division 
that has a development pipeline of more than £1.5bn. 
There are many more opportunities to exploit now as 
we have allocated more capital to this business.
A highlight of the year was the growth achieved 
in our infrastructure business. Projects such as 
Crossrail and Mersey Gateway bring our skills to the 
fore as we play an important role in improving the UK’s 
infrastructure. Internationally, we are increasing our 
geographic footprint based on our long 50-year record 
of operating overseas. The positive market dynamics 
in these areas, and our established skills, are providing 
further exciting opportunities for future growth.
Vision 2020 is an agenda for growth. The strong operating 
performance of all our divisions gives us confidence to make 
the investments that will provide the Group with a platform 
to double in size over the next five or six years. This will 
require investment in back-office systems and front-of-house 
IT for the Services division, to make sure we have the best 
technology and back-office systems.
However, future investment is not the only way to reflect 
stability and growth. We have considerable strength 
and depth in our existing operations, a very high level of 
risk awareness and an excellent portfolio of businesses 
that meet a wide range of client needs in growing markets. 
That’s why I am positive about our future.
Q How has the integration of May Gurney 
progressed and what value is it bringing to the Group?
The acquisition of May Gurney was undoubtedly the big 
story of 2013, and its successful integration into the wider 
business was the story of 2014. This was a significant 
development for the Group and involved challenges for our 
integration and IT teams in particular. I am pleased to report 
11
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  that we dealt with the integration well and we have 
delivered on what we set out to achieve. Progress to date 
has been encouraging, albeit we must resolve the loss-
making environmental contracts for Bristol and Cheshire 
West & Chester local authorities in relation to which we 
have already made and announced a fair value provision. 
We have worked hard to improve the performance of every 
one of these contracts, through increased commercial 
rigour in the operations and greater engagement with the 
clients.
Most importantly, the integration has given us a greater 
breadth of skills to offer clients. It has broadened and 
strengthened the culture of client partnership in areas such 
as highways and utilities. It has also given us a greater 
scale, making it easier for us to leverage cost savings. 
We are both bigger and better together, and we now 
have relationships with more than 60 of the UK’s 350 local 
authorities. This is a significant market share, but 
one that still leaves plenty of room for further expansion. 
The enlarged group, with its broader capabilities, is 
proving to be a catalyst regarding additional 
and new requirements with existing and new clients.
For example, the Services division now has greater 
interaction with the Construction team and clients can 
now procure both small opex maintenance work as well 
as larger capex construction activities, broadening and 
deepening the Group’s relationships with its clients.
The integration of our businesses is already delivering 
opportunities. For example, our commercial property team 
has a partnership with Northampton Borough Council, and 
our Services division has another with Northamptonshire 
County Council. The Borough Council needs to update and 
upgrade care facilities, around 3,000 units. It is clear from 
discussions how much a structured, end-to-end cross-
divisional approach by Kier could help them. We have the 
ability to develop a structured financial package, build 
homes, and maintain and manage them too.
Another example of the power of integration is in Surrey, 
where our Property division has a 28-year PFI arrangement 
with Woking Borough Council. We are now building 373 
houses on regenerated land belonging to the Council, 149 
of which will be for private sale to subsidise the 224 built for 
the Council. We are also working with Surrey County Council 
on a five-year £100m asset investment programme to 
address the root causes of frequent and costly highways 
maintenance, reducing their overall maintenance budget 
over the longer term.
Q Why have you chosen now to focus on residential 
with the formation of Kier Living?
Kier Living seeks to address the imbalance between house 
building supply and demand.
We are giving greater focus to the residential market by 
bringing together three existing areas of activity – specialist 
contracting, affordable mixed tenure housing partnerships 
and private house building on our own land, enabling the 
Group to scale up its house building activities. Our approach 
means we can grow while better managing risk, taking 
production from our current 1,500 units pa to around 4,000 
by 2020. As we continue to trade our existing land bank, no 
new capital is required. We will re-invest the capital released 
as the land bank reduces into mixed tenure which is less 
capital intensive and presents much more manageable risks 
than speculative house building. 
Q Can you explain the Kier business model and how 
it will deliver your Vision 2020 strategy?
We have a broad set of capabilities and have a leading 
regional presence across the UK with operations in three 
international territories. We complement these with a 
resilient business model which comprises a value chain 
of invest, build, maintain and renew, delivered through our 
Property, Residential, Construction and Services divisions.
Significantly, as markets ebb and flow, the breadth of our 
business gives us an important hedge against the cyclical 
nature of the markets in which we operate, with Property 
and Residential at the front, while Construction and 
Services are further back in the cycle.
“ We undertake a large 
number of projects and 
risk management is a 
key factor of our bidding 
approval process.”
Chief Executive’s strategic review continued
Vision 2020
Safety Profit growth
Zero
harm
>10%
CAGR
Shareholder return Customers
Progressive  
dividend
+90%
Customer
satisfaction
Property Residential
>15%
ROCE
>15%
ROCE
Construction Services
>2.5%
EBITA
>5%
EBITA
12
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 We can offer a broad, end-to-end range of property and 
infrastructure-focused services. Our clients can maximise 
the value they derive from their assets by working with us: by 
negotiating finance and planning permissions, constructing 
major buildings and infrastructure, to providing facilities 
management and environmental services. We even keep 
water, rail and highways running smoothly. We are investing 
in better technology and back-office systems to enhance the 
effectiveness and distinctive value of our integrated offer.
Our business model provides the basis for future 
growth in revenues, profits and cash through the delivery 
of our Vision 2020 strategy. We aim for double-digit 
compound annual growth in operating profit through to 
2020, becoming a world-class customer-focused company 
and aiming to be a top three player in our chosen markets. 
We aim to achieve top quartile performance and efficiency 
across our business.
Such success will be reflected in the continuing 
improvement of our total shareholder returns.
Q What are the risks in achieving Vision 2020?
Any strategy contains a degree of ‘stretch’ or ambition. 
In striving to achieve Vision 2020, we will not reduce our 
focus on robust operational, commercial and financial 
discipline. There are a number of factors which are outside 
our control – for example, the economic climate, budgetary 
constraints of local authorities and geo-political upheaval. 
Identifying, recruiting and developing the best available 
people in an ever-changing labour market and a growing 
skills gap, will also present a challenge.
Q What are the main market opportunities open 
to the Group?
There are so many varied and exciting opportunities. For 
example, Construction is growing faster than the market 
average; our Construction division generated around 
£1.6bn in revenues in the last year. This is a market that’s 
growing by up to 5% a year and will be worth more than 
£50bn in the UK in the next four to five years. I am 
confident that the quality of our regional building business, 
and our entry into sectors including industrials, defence 
and aviation, means that we can expect our share to grow 
faster than the market average.
Our infrastructure business is also growing faster than the 
market and likely to continue to benefit from investment 
in the UK’s infrastructure. Revenues have increased from 
£150m to £400m in recent years and we believe it will 
continue to grow due to cross-party support for investment 
in roads, rail, power and water. We look forward to building 
on recent successes such as the start of Phase 2 at Hinkley 
Point C and our work on Crossrail.
The level of international opportunity is also encouraging. 
I believe this part of our business can grow to around 10% of 
Group revenues by 2020, which will mean revenues growing 
to £500m. There are considerable risks in achieving this 
objective, principally in the areas of safety, ethics and the 
management of risk. We recognise that strict and disciplined 
operational management is key. We may also look to extend 
our footprint beyond Hong Kong, the Middle East and the 
Caribbean into a fourth territory.
Turning to our Services division, we expect to grow ahead 
of the market average; we currently have a £1bn share 
of a UK market worth around £80bn. So while we have a 
strong foothold, there is scope to grow, by using our breadth 
of skills to win new clients and develop relationships with 
existing ones. Again, I expect to see the division grow ahead 
of the market average of 2–4% pa particularly in private 
sector housing maintenance, highways maintenance, 
utilities and facilities management.
Finally, in our Property division we will continue our 
non speculative approach in the developments business 
while doubling its current capital limit towards £200m by 
2020. That will enable us to target larger opportunities. 
Further, by consolidating all the Company’s residential 
experience into one division, Kier Living, we have created 
a mixed tenure housing-focused building business.
Q What competitive pressures do you face, and what 
are the key challenges ahead?
Competition for the best people will intensify as markets 
recover, so we need to offer attractive remuneration, 
training and development and fulfilling career paths. 
This is fundamental to achieving our goals. We need the 
right people in the right jobs to achieve our objectives.
We are also conscious of labour, commodity and supplier 
inflation and its effect on profits. However, we undertake 
a large number of projects with risk management playing 
a key part in our bidding approval process. Our focus 
continues to be on profits, cash and risk management, 
not just revenue.
The other big challenge is how to manage growth and we 
must ensure we have the systems and processes in place 
to manage the stresses, strains and risks associated 
with rapid expansion.
Q Where do you see Kier in 2020?
When considering the future of Kier, it’s important that 
we look at where the business is today. We have a strong 
balance sheet, a clear strategy, a robust business model, 
enduring client relationships and, above all, the people to 
exploit opportunities for growth in the markets where we 
operate. Our emphasis on strict risk management allows us 
to deliver successful projects. We remain a company with 
the customer at the heart and we have people who have 
shown they can respond to change and are ambitious for 
further growth.
So, within five years’ time, I see Kier as a company with 
clients in the public and private sectors, both in the UK 
and internationally, having doubled in size through offering 
greater breadth of service. At the same time we will deliver 
consistently strong margins and progressive dividend 
payouts and total shareholder returns. 
13
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Resources and relationships
As we provide a greater breadth of services to more customers 
across a wider geography, we maintain our emphasis on our 
responsibility to deliver social, environmental and economic value. 
See page 28 for more information
Key performance indicators
We monitor our performance against a range of financial and 
non-financial key performance indicators (KPIs) that measure 
progress in delivering our strategy and which we believe are 
important to our longer-term success.
See page 26 for more information
Our business model
We have a resilient business model which delivers sustainable value for 
all of our stakeholders by providing an integrated offering to invest in, build, 
maintain and renew over the life of an asset.
On 1 July 2014, a fourth division, Kier Residential, was created which brings 
all of Kier’s house building activities together* .
Excel
Optimise
Deliver
Safe
Sustainable
Renew
Build
Renew
Maintain
Invest
     Property  
        Residential  
       Construction                    Services
* In the financial statements and in the segmental note (note 2 page 104), three operating divisions have been disclosed to 30 June 2014. For the year ending 30 June 
2015, there will be four operating divisions disclosed in the segmental note.
14
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Key risks to manage
We are aware of the risks within our businesses and have 
processes in place to manage them. As risks develop and change 
over time, management regularly reassess them to minimise their 
impact on our stakeholders.
See page 32 for more information
A culture of good governance
The 2014 financial year was another successful year for 
the business. The Group is continuing to adapt to significant 
recent change, having recently integrated May Gurney and also 
undertaken a significant business efficiency programme.
See page 52 for more information
How we create value
Sector leadership
• Aim to be a top three player 
in key markets
• Further develop long-term  
relationships
• Sustainable approach
We retained and improved our leading position in construction markets, extending our reach 
in education through the Priority Schools Building Programme framework and in health through 
the ProCure 21+ framework. We improved our coverage of the defence sector where we are 
now working for the Ministry of Defence on a three-year £400m national framework capital 
works contract and the £121m first phase of the Defence Technical Training Change Programme 
at RAF Lyneham. We also expanded our services offering through the May Gurney acquisition, 
strengthening our position as a top three player with local authorities, as well as increasing 
our share in the highways market with the mobilisation of our contract with Suffolk County 
Council, enhancing our profile in utilities markets with awards under the AMP6 programme 
and maintaining our top three position in housing maintenance with contract awards from 
Genesis Housing Association and Sheffield City Council.
Capability and breadth
• Leverage our integrated offering 
• Widen our scope of services
• Innovation and engineering solutions
We offer a broad set of capabilities and have a strong regional presence across the 
UK and in three international territories. We offer an end-to-end range of property and 
infrastructure-focused services designed to maximise customer value when investing 
in property development and regeneration, by building private and affordable homes, 
through constructing major buildings and infrastructure, to facilities management and 
environmental services.
Value added centre
• Disciplined capital allocation
• Continued focus on cash management
• Streamlined central function
The enlarged organisation is supported by a corporate centre that provides strategic direction 
and implementation. It comprises value added services in the key functions of finance, IT, 
procurement, fleet and HR to support divisional operations, safety, customer engagement 
and business development. Over the next two years the Group will be investing around £30m 
in back-office systems whilst continuing to invest in front-of-house IT capabilities to improve 
the performance and efficiency of the Group.
Performance
• Focused risk management
• Operational excellence 
• Financial delivery
Whilst it is not possible to eliminate all risks, the Group has well-established risk management 
and internal control systems which are reviewed regularly. Our business is resilient, 
demonstrated by the performance through the downcycle, our winning of new business, 
operating performance and balance sheet strength. As we increase in size, we are refining 
our operating model and, at the same time, continue to streamline the Group.
15
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Sector leading
customer
experience
World-class
technology and
back-office
Highly motivated
teams
Excel
Optimise
Deliver
Safe Sustainable
Accelerated Growth
     Property   
    Residential  
          Construction                     Services
Renew
Build
Renew
Maintain
Performance and Efficiency
Renew
Invest
Our vision and strategic priorities
Our vision is to be a world-class customer-focused company that invests in, 
builds, maintains and renews the places where we live, work and play.
Our strategy – double-digit growth
Our strategy aims to leverage our integrated offering to deliver double- 
digit compound annual growth in operating profit through to 2020.
To maximise the opportunity for growth we need to exploit and invest 
in the development of our integrated offering.
To achieve Vision 2020 we have identified six imperatives:
1  Operate a safe and sustainable business;
2  Accelerate growth to be a top three player in our chosen markets;
3  Achieve top quartile performance and efficiency; 
4  Provide sector leading customer experience, for clients and for 
their customers;
5  Attract and retain highly motivated, high performing teams; and
6  Ensure the business is supported by investment in technology 
and back-office systems.
Our priorities are set at a Group level with detailed targets and 
performance plans identified for each objective. These are further 
aligned and co-ordinated through the business plans of our four divisions.
Vision 2020
Safety Profit growth
Shareholder return Customers
Property Residential
Construction Services
>10%
CAGR
Progressive  
dividend
+90%
Customer
satisfaction
>15%
ROCE
>15%
ROCE
>2.5%
EBITA
>5%
EBITA
Zero
harm
Property
• Increase capital invested towards £200m over time to invest in non 
speculative schemes in existing core markets, combined with entry 
to the care home and student accommodation equity markets. 
• Continue to deliver significant integration opportunities for the Group.
• Target medium-term progression of return on capital towards 20%.
Residential 
• Scale up our house building activities, primarily in the mixed tenure and 
social housing market segments. 
• Redeploy capital from the legacy land bank to new land acquisitions and 
to less capital intensive, lower risk mixed tenure opportunities.
• Target a medium-term return on capital in excess of 15%.
Construction
• Deliver accelerated growth in the UK construction business through 
increased penetration in existing regional building markets, greater major 
projects coverage in areas such as high-rise construction and defence and 
leveraging a growing presence in major infrastructure projects in nuclear/
energy, rail, highways and into new infrastructure segments. 
• Continue to develop and grow our presence in the Middle East, Far East 
and Caribbean, exploring expansion into new territories and sectors. 
• Target medium-term profit margins of 2.5%.
Services
• Grow the business and sustainable profit levels, expand into new and adjacent 
services markets such as telecoms, power transmission and industrial.
• Develop our private sector and central government penetration to balance our 
local authority sector strength.
• Target profitability in the medium term of 5%.
16
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic priority Achievements in 2014 Targets for 2015
Operate a safe and 
sustainable business 
• Integration of May Gurney and achieving 
a 43% reduction in accident incidence rate
• Realignment of safety, health and 
environmental (SHE) resources across 
the Group
• Roll out of new SHE management system
• Implement a new suite of leading indicators 
that enable us to better predict and identify 
key trends and changes in our safety 
performance
• Roll out an enhanced behavioural safety 
programme
• Launch our new Strategy for Sustainability
Accelerate growth to be a top 
three player in our chosen 
markets
• Strong performance in securing new work 
in core sectors including regional building, 
education, health, highways and utilities
• Enhanced capability across local 
government and regulated markets 
following the acquisition of May Gurney
• Entry to new target sectors: defence, 
highways and bridge construction
• Establish a Group-wide sector business 
development capability
• Continued penetration in existing markets
• Determine development plan for new 
market sectors including aviation, industrial 
and high-rise construction
• Expand internal capability to target and 
deliver acquisition opportunities
Achieve top quartile 
performance and efficiency 
• Continued improvement of risk 
management and commercial governance
• Establishment of single Group-wide 
business assurance system
• Achievement of single ISO 9001 
certification across the Group
• Established a centre of excellence  
for transformation and  
performance improvement
• Attain measured performance 
improvements through challenge and 
innovation across the Group
• Implement a performance framework and 
reporting scorecard across the Group
• Continue to build a governance framework 
across the Group supported by continuous 
training
Provide sector leading 
customer experience
• Investment in a Group customer experience 
team to develop our customer service plans
• Roll out of Group-wide customer 
relationship management system
• Launch our new ‘customer promise’, 
develop the customer journey and enhance 
the experience for our clients and their 
customers 
• Embed common tools and indicators 
for measuring customer satisfaction 
across Kier
Attract and retain highly 
motivated, high performing 
teams
• Appointment of talent director to improve 
our talent management and succession 
planning
• Successful roll out of our leadership 
programmes to approximately  
260 senior leaders across the Group
• Completion of biennial engagement survey 
to include newly integrated former May 
Gurney employees
• Develop a framework to drive high 
performance
• Review management development 
programmes
• Continue to promote skills development 
and recruitment capability in key 
resource areas
• Target reduced absenteeism and improved 
employee retention
Ensure we have investment in 
technology and back-office 
systems
• Integration and rationalisation of 
May Gurney IT systems and shared service 
centre (SSC)
• Rationalisation and improvement of support 
functions into a shared service model
• Initiation of Group-wide enterprise resource 
planning (ERP) programme
• Roll out phase 1 of new ERP system
• Implementation of new SSC strategy and 
service levels 
• Development of front-line systems and 
knowledge management systems
• Continued roll out of Kier ‘apps’ to support 
front-line activities
17
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Creating new  
platforms for  
growth
18
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 An end-to-end partnership 
approach to project 
management
Invest: clients use Kier’s development expertise 
to support every stage of a scheme, from gaining 
finance and planning permission through to 
delivering end-to-end project management.
The Health Campus Partnership LLP has selected our 
specialist project investment business as its development 
and management partner for a £240m mixed use scheme 
that is bringing new life to a derelict 65-acre former hospital 
site in west Watford. 
The 375,000sqft mixed use development is poised to have a 
tremendous positive impact on Watford and South Hertfordshire, 
drawing on our expertise as one of the UK’s leading healthcare 
developers to deliver much needed new hospital facilities, up to 
650 homes and business space to house up to 1,600 new jobs.
Audit House, Embankment, London
When our Property and Construction 
arms work together, they achieve 
efficiencies for the customer from 
shared overheads and technical 
solutions. Audit House is an example 
of one such project.
Renew
Invest
Build
Maintain
19
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Creating new  
platforms for  
growth
20
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Delivering our technical 
expertise over the long term
Build: construction is at the heart of Kier, based 
around outstanding technical skills that enable 
us to meet the most demanding quality and 
efficiency standards.
We have now been working for several years on the multi-
phased, 67-acre redevelopment of London’s King’s Cross area 
for King’s Cross Central Limited Partnership. One of our most 
significant projects there to date has been to build the Arthouse, 
an eight-storey development of 143 one, two, three and four-
bedroom properties including 29 affordable homes. 
Now, in the next phase of our work, we are redeveloping the 
Grade II-listed, 68,000sqft Midland Goods Shed to be occupied 
by Waitrose as a 29,000sqft food and wine store, a cookery 
school and 25,000sqft of office space. 
Working on such a sensitive building takes a very high degree 
of technical expertise. Built by the Great Northern Railway 
in 1850, the Shed needs to retain its integrity as a historic 
building of national importance while providing a very high 
level of performance.
Frameworks
Kier Group chief operating officer, 
Steve Bowcott (far right), is pictured at 
a ceremony held to celebrate the start 
of work on the new £121m Defence 
College of Technical Training at the 
former RAF Lyneham base in Wiltshire.
Renew
Invest
Build
Maintain
21
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Creating new  
platforms for  
growth
22
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Realising the value of 
going that extra mile
Maintain: we work with clients to manage and 
develop their assets. Our focus on working in 
partnership on defined outputs ensures we 
deliver the added value they seek.
In Surrey, our highways maintenance contract has grown 
since 2011 to include a five-year £100m asset investment 
programme, Project Horizon, focused on finding and fixing 
the root cause of highway problems and reducing overall 
maintenance costs. The long-term nature of the programme 
provides assurance to our suppliers, generates local employment 
and significantly reduces overall costs. It is estimated the 
£100m investment will deliver £120m of improvements. 
We can control both the cost and the quality of the surface-
dressing materials used by our highway teams. Through our 
in-house production, we lay over 9 million square metres 
annually with a success rate of over 99.9%.
Torbay Council
As Kier delivers its Vision 2020 
growth strategy, an important element 
of its approach will be to increase the 
breadth of its services. 
A glimpse of that future can already 
be seen in Torbay, where Kier provides 
a portfolio of services for the local 
community ranging from highways 
and environmental services to 
cleaning beaches, street lighting, 
maintaining parks and grounds.
Renew
Invest
Build
Maintain
23
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Creating new  
platforms for  
growth
24
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Renew
Invest
Build
Maintain
Transforming an inner-city 
derelict site into a vibrant 
new community
Renew: returning life to tired communities 
involves creating a complete social 
infrastructure, including new economic 
opportunities, affordable housing and 
accessible public spaces.
Kier’s development partnership with Derby City Council and the 
Homes and Communities Agency (HCA) is entirely transforming 
the 73-acre Manor and Kingsway site. What was a derelict 
brownfield site is fast becoming a vibrant and sought-after 
new neighbourhood that has already won many design and 
renovation awards.
Started in 2012 on a former hospital site some 2.5 miles  
south-west of Derby city centre, the development is a priority 
project for the city due to its potential as a provider of new 
homes, jobs, businesses and economic growth. 
When complete, Manor Kingsway will comprise around 700 
new homes, including a high proportion of affordable properties 
for purchase, rent or shared ownership and a business park 
supporting around 450 new local jobs. It is making use of the 
existing features of the landscape, to bring a large area of 
open space back into use for leisure and an ecology area. 
Woking PFI
Another example of where derelict 
land is being regenerated for the 
local authority to create an entire 
new community is Moor Lane, Woking, 
where 373 new homes will include 224 
affordable rental properties managed 
by Thames Valley Housing.
The sale of the remaining 149 homes 
will cross-subsidise the project and 
illustrates our work with the public 
and third sectors to address the 
UK’s national housing shortage.
25
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Key performance indicators (KPIs)
We monitor our performance against a range of financial and non-financial 
KPIs that measure progress in delivering our strategy and which we believe 
are important to our long-term success. These KPIs will be reviewed moving 
forward to ensure they are relevant operationally as well as in a strategic 
management context.
Financial
Key performance indicator Aim
Alignment to strategic priorities
Context Progress in 2014
Revenue growth
Deliver annual revenue growth 
in line with Vision 2020
2
 
4
Our aim is to deliver accelerated 
growth across our business, 
organically and by acquisition, 
to be a top three player in our 
chosen markets.
£2,985m +51%
(2013: £1,983m)
Underlying operating 
profit*
Maintain consistent underlying 
operating margins
1
 
2
 
3
Underlying operating profit is 
our key measure of financial 
performance.
Our target is to produce 
double-digit compound 
annual growth in profits 
through to 2020.
£88.0m +59%
(2013: £55.5m)
†
Underlying EPS* 
(Earnings per share)
Achieve long-term growth in EPS
1
 
3
We are focused on shareholder 
value and maximising sustained 
growth in earnings per share. 
107 .7p +2%
(2013: 105.6p)
†
ROCE (Return on Capital 
Employed)
1
Achieve ROCE above the Group’s 
target of 15%
3
ROCE measures our ability 
to generate returns on the capital 
invested in our business. We 
target a minimum 15% ROCE on 
all capital investment decisions. 
ROCE fell during the year reflecting 
the full effect on capital employed 
of the acquisition of May Gurney, 
which is expected to deliver 15% 
ROCE by 2016.
15.6% -6%
(2013: 21.2%)
†
Underlying economic 
profit
2
Achieve steady growth in 
economic profit
3
We seek to generate returns 
that exceed our weighted average 
cost of capital, currently 9.1% to 
ensure that we add value from 
our investment decisions.
£24.8m +38%
(2013: £18.0m)
Debt cover (net debt
10
/ 
underlying operating 
profit*)
Ensure debt is conservatively 
managed to improve cover 
towards a medium-term target 
of 1.0 times EBITA
1
 
3
 
6
Client confidence and our 
ability to invest are dependent 
on a stable, low risk funding 
structure.
2.4x
(2013: not applicable
3
)
1
 We calculate ROCE by dividing underlying operating profit* for a period by the sum of long-term borrowings, long-term finance leases and total equity at the end of the 
period.
2
 We calculate economic profit by taking underlying operating profits* and subtracting year end capital employed multiplied by the weighted average cost of capital.
3
 The Group held a net cash balance
10
 of £46.1m as at 30 June 2013.
4
 Health & Safety Executive (HSE) benchmark AIR for the UK Construction industry: 414.
5
 Restated pro forma for the 12 months ended June 2013 to include May Gurney; the underlying May Gurney activities reduced AIR by 43% in the year from 1,168 
to 663 whilst Kier performance excluding May Gurney improved by 26% from 333 to 248 in the same period.
6
  This reflects the percentage improvement in client survey scores for the Services division excluding May Gurney against the survey conducted in 2011.
7
 Based on a biennial survey.
8
 We define retention as the total number of employees in the period less those employees leaving the Group voluntarily, as a proportion of the total number of 
employees. 
9
 CIPD June 2013 Survey, UK industry average 88.2%.
10
 Including finance lease obligations.
* Underlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before exceptional items totalling £42.2m (2013: £17.0m), amortisation of intangible 
assets relating to contract rights of £10.8m (2013: £3.4m) and unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on 
acquisition of £5.3m (2013: £1.3m). Reported operating profit was £35.0m (2013: £35.1m), reported pre-tax profit was £14.8m (2013: £25.9m) and reported EPS 
was 18.4p (2013: 62.6p). 2013 results have been restated to reflect this presentation (see note 4 page 106).
†
 2013 results have been restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31 page 132).
26
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Non-financial 
Key performance indicator Aim
Alignment to strategic priorities
Context Progress in 2014
Shareholder returns
Maintain a progressive dividend 
policy and deliver annual growth
1
 
3
Our policy demonstrates 
our commitment to creating 
shareholder value through 
increased distributions to 
shareholders
72.0p +6%
(2013: 68.0p)
Safety – accident 
incidence rate (AIR)
Achieve year-on-year 
improvement in AIR and 
remain below the HSE 
benchmark in the UK
4
1
 
4
 
5
We aim to support our objective 
to operate a safe and sustainable 
business by achieving zero 
harm to our workforce. AIR is 
a key measurement of the 
effectiveness of our safety 
procedures
344 +32%
(2013: 506
5
) improvement
Customer experience
Deliver a high level of 
customer satisfaction
2
 
4
 
6
High levels of customer 
satisfaction are key to 
supporting sustainable 
long-term growth across our 
markets and client base. Client 
satisfaction results have been 
collected for parts of the Group, 
that represent approximately 
60% of revenue
To continue to achieve high 
levels of satisfaction and 
loyalty, we are introducing 
common client satisfaction 
measurements across all 
of our businesses
Construction
8.6 out of 10
(2013: 8.5) 
Services
+13%
6
Employee engagement
Achieve a continuous 
improvement in the employee 
engagement survey score
7
1
 
5
The attitude, skill and motivation 
of our employees will enable 
the Group to deliver excellent 
performance
We undertake a biennial employee 
engagement survey in which every 
employee is invited to give their 
opinion of Kier. In 2014, we 
undertook a new engagement 
survey, conducting the survey 
during the integration of May 
Gurney so as to establish a clear 
benchmark against which we 
could measure our future levels 
of engagement
Property/Residential
74%
Construction
67%
Services
48%
Employee retention
Retain employees
8
 at or above 
industry average
9
2
 
3
 
5
We recognise our talented 
and diverse workforce as an 
important business asset, 
critical to our success. 
Measuring our ability to retain 
employees will help in driving 
business improvement 
and growth
88% -2%
(2013: 90%)
Sustainability
Maintaining Platinum ranking in 
the Business in the Community’s 
Corporate Responsibility Index
1
 
3
 
4
 
5
Our financial success and ability 
to win new work depends upon 
how we conduct our social and 
environmental responsibilities
As part of the launch of our new 
Strategy for Sustainability in 
January 2015, we expect to 
review this KPI next year
95% Platinum Big Tick
(2013: 95% Platinum Big Tick)
 
Strategic objectives
1  Operate a safe and sustainable 
business 
2  Accelerate growth to be a top three 
player in all our markets
3  Achieve top quartile performance 
and efficiency
4  Provide sector leading customer 
experience
5  Attract and retain highly motivated, 
high performing teams
6  Ensure we have investment in 
technology and back-office systems
27
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report   
Resources, relationships and sustainability
As we provide a greater breadth of services to more customers across 
a wider geography, we maintain our emphasis on our responsibility 
to deliver social, environmental and economic value.
Introduction
This year a number of new factors have significantly 
influenced the Group’s approach to social and 
environmental matters. These include:
• The growing impact of the Social Value Act on clients’ 
contract procurement criteria; 
• The changing investor view of risk and responsible 
business, including changes to the FTSE4Good grading 
assessment process; 
• The introduction of the Government’s CAESER 
(Corporate Assessment of Environmental, Social and 
Economic Responsibility) Supplier Sustainability 
Reporting;
• The evolving legislative and regulatory framework within 
which we operate, including mandatory greenhouse gas 
emissions reporting; 
• The acquisition and integration of May Gurney; and
• The Group’s growing international portfolio of work.
Recognising the critical importance of several of these 
key intangible, non-financial issues, we are taking steps 
to address all of our corporate responsibilities to help 
improve and sustain the future value of our business. 
In response to these requirements, a stakeholder 
engagement exercise was undertaken to identify and 
fully understand the social, environmental, governance 
and ethical issues that are today most important to our 
customers, staff, investors, supply chain partners and 
other stakeholders in their relationship with the Group. 
Further details are set out below under ‘Stakeholder 
engagement’.
Governance
During the year, we revised the composition of the Group 
Corporate Responsibility (CR) Steering Committee to better 
develop and launch, then implement and manage our 
new strategy for sustainability from 2015. This committee 
comprises representatives from the central CR, environmental, 
HR and procurement functions as well as from the business.
In addition, we established a new central CR function to 
develop the Group’s revised CR programme and reporting 
strategy, as well as to advise and support the operational 
teams in the delivery of this strategy.
Our performance
Social 
Accident Incidence Rate (AIR)
The Group’s AIR rate reflects its commitment to create safe working 
environments through clear and disciplined leadership. Our aim is 
to achieve continuous improvement in AIR and remain below the 
Health and Safety Executive (HSE) benchmark for the industry in 
the UK.
Kier Group AIR (per 100,000 
employees and subcontractors):
344
1
(2013: 506)
2
 32% reduction
HSE benchmark AIR 
(per 100,000):  
414
(2013: 589) 30% reduction
1
 This figure includes delivery of a 43% improvement in the AIR of Kier MG to 
663 (2013: 1,168) and a 26% improvement in Kier UK to 248 (2013: 333). 
The combined UK business and the Group as a whole have AIR rates below 
the HSE UK benchmark.
2
 Adjusted pro forma comparative figure.
Community engagement
The Group is committed to supporting and engaging with the 
communities in which it works. Through the continued enthusiasm 
and energy of our employees, we continue to support a wide range 
of community projects across the UK and in doing so supported 
over 39,000 individuals.
Employee hours given* 
161,799
(2013: 185,486)
Equivalent value of  
employee hours*
£2.9m
(2013: £3.5m)
* The integration of May Gurney and restructuring affected the extent of data 
capture for our community activity for 2014.
Employees and training 
The Group has continued to increase investment in new entrant 
programmes and training across the business, demonstrated by a 20% 
increase in the number of apprenticeships offered by the Group and a 
50% increase in the vocational qualifications delivered to our operatives.
Number of employees in registered development 
programmes:
Programme 2014 2013
Day release/Further Education 147 137
Craft Apprenticeships 294 230
Foundation Degrees 123 148
NVQ – operatives 742 505
NVQ – supervisory/management 58 61
Undergraduates/sponsored 
students 47 45
Graduate schemes 238 251
Total 1,649 1,377
 
Diversity
At the end of the financial year, the breakdown of male/female 
employees was as follows:
Male Female
Main Board directors  
(inc. non-executive directors) 6 2
Directors/senior managers 221 15
Managers 2,004 303
All employees 10,694 2,756
28
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Emission type CO
2
e tonnes
Scope 1: Operation of Facilities 0
Scope 1: Combustion 113,399
TOTAL Scope 1 Emissions 113,399
Scope 2: Purchased Energy 12,192
TOTAL Scope 2 Emissions 12,192
Total Emissions 125,590
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratio:
Total Footprint (Scope 1 and Scope 2) – CO
2
e 125,590
Turnover (£)* 2,439,243,000
Intensity Ratio (tCO
2
e/£100,000) 5.15
* Turnover figure represents calendar year, not financial year.
Notes:
• Our methodology is based on the principles of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol using 
the boundary of financial control. For further detail on our reporting methodology 
please see our reporting guidelines at www.kier.co.uk/corporate-responsibility/
downloads. 
• The period of our report is 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 to mirror our 
reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project. 
• The acquisition of May Gurney has led to an additional 26,689 tCO
2
e being reported 
in this period. 
• The Group has not previously reported our international operations’ carbon 
footprints. The impact of this is to add 10,666 tCO
2
e to our carbon footprint.
• Turnover figure represents calendar year, not financial year.
Statement of exclusion:
• The Group has excluded our fugitive emissions associated with refrigerant leaks as 
insufficient information is available across the Group to report these at this time. 
Action has already been taken to ensure reporting of this in future years. 
Environmental
Our mission is to reduce the impact of our activities on the environment by improving resource efficiency, prioritising reduction in waste 
and carbon emissions.
Emissions data in respect of the 2013/14 reporting period is as follows:
Stakeholder engagement
In June 2014, we formally engaged with our stakeholders 
to identify relevant sustainability issues when interacting 
with the Group. This exercise will also help the Group to define 
how it reports to its stakeholders, what benchmarking it 
adopts and how it measures its performance in the future.
Participants included representatives of the 
following organisations: 
Clients:
Grainger Plc 
EDF Energy 
East Sussex County Council 
Network Rail 
Circle Housing Group 
Watford Borough Council 
Test Valley Borough Council 
British Land* 
Anglian Water*
Investors/analysts: 
Broker Profile 
Legal & General 
Investment*
Employee 
representation:
Property 
Construction 
Services
Supply chain: 
Through the Supply Chain 
Sustainability School
The most important areas identified were:
• Carbon and greenhouse gas emissions
• Energy
• Local communities
• Training, education and apprenticeships
• Waste management, materials use and market 
influence
• Financial performance and customer satisfaction
• Health and safety
Other issues identified and discussed were:
• Water
• Biodiversity
• Labour practices
• Governance
The process was facilitated by KPMG who have produced 
a report for the stakeholders who participated. This 
will assist in the development of a new Strategy for 
Sustainability to be launched in 2015, following 
further consultation with these stakeholders. 
*
 These companies submitted responses to our stakeholder 
exercise and continue dialogue and interaction on 
sustainability issues.
29
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  During the year we reviewed the roles and responsibilities 
of business unit CR representation, resulting in the issue 
of a revised CR Representative’s ‘job description’ and the 
re-appointment of a network of such roles across most 
business streams. They are key to gathering and collating 
data on many front-line CR-related activities, particularly in 
the areas of community engagement and local skills support. 
Health and safety
Operating safely is a priority. Every accident is preventable, 
and it is part of our vision to have a zero Accident Incidence 
Rate (AIR) across the Group. We are already achieving this in 
some of our operations and we have significantly reduced the 
rate of accidents within the May Gurney business since we 
acquired it. However, despite this improving trend, there were 
tragically two work related fatalities during the year in our joint 
venture operations, one in Hong Kong and one on the Crossrail 
project. Both accidents are subject to further investigations.
Strategy for Sustainability
The findings from the stakeholder engagement survey 
are being used to develop the Group’s new Strategy for 
Sustainability to be launched in early 2015. Subsequently 
each division and business stream will adopt their own 
sustainability strategies which will be aligned with the 
Group’s strategy, and focus on their specific stakeholders. 
Marketplace
Customer satisfaction surveys – Construction
Construction division data relates to KPIs taken from across the 
business and includes specific data on customer satisfaction based 
on a questionnaire completed by clients. 
2013 2014 Target
Satisfaction product 8.17 8.31 8.5
Satisfaction service 8.48 8.58 8.5
Perception 9.18 8.95 8.7
Defects 8.22 8.43 8.2
Average score 8.5 8.6 8.5
Supply Chain Sustainability School
Number of unique company members of the school supplying to 
the Group: 1,081 (2013: 800).
Considerate Constructors Scheme
Since becoming an associate member of the Considerate Constructors 
Scheme (CCS) in January 2008, Kier has registered over 2,000 sites 
with the scheme. The Group is an associate member, proving its 
commitment to comply with all aspects of the Scheme’s Code of 
Considerate Practice: respect for the community, protection for the 
environment, securing everyone’s safety, valuing our workforce, caring 
about our appearance.
Average
37.62
(2013: 38.17) 
Industry
35.29
(2013: 35.24)
Target: To consistently exceed the industry average score 
by 2 points
Customer performance – Services
The Services division has piloted a method of measuring customer 
loyalty to drive customer focus across the business. 
Results of ‘pulse check’ surveys have allowed us to better 
understand customer loyalty, customer effort (i.e. how easy we are 
to do business with), general satisfaction with our service and how 
we compare to our competitors.
This insight, combined with regular contract level client and 
consumer satisfaction surveys, is used to put in place service 
excellence plans tailored to individual customers. 
Results*
Customer Loyalty +13%
* This reflects the percentage improvement in client survey scores for the 
Services division excluding May Gurney.
Customer satisfaction – Group
From 2014 we are introducing a consistent way of measuring client 
satisfaction across the Group. Targets for responses and 
performance will be set in line with Vision 2020 and its goals 
relating to customer experience.
Our performance
Resources, relationships and sustainability continued
This strategy will also seek to address better the different 
demands of our growing international operations.
Benchmarking and KPIs 
Some of our CR KPIs and benchmarking criteria are shown 
on pages 28 to 30. These are currently under review to align 
them with the Group’s Vision 2020 strategy.
Having achieved 95% (Platinum Big Tick) in the Business 
in the Community (BITC) CR Index (retained for 2014), 80% 
in CAESER reporting, 81 in our Carbon Disclosure Project 
submission and many national sustainability awards in the 
past, including Considerate Constructors Scheme and Green 
Apple awards, we are now re-examining the criteria through 
which we will benchmark in future, including which Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines we adhere to – GRI3 or G4.
30
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Customer satisfaction
In order to demonstrate a sector-leading customer experience, 
we are introducing a new and consistent way of measuring 
customer service and client satisfaction across the Group.
As we provide more services to more customers and a wider 
mixture of individual clients, it is critical that we build upon the 
loyalty of our current clients and fully understand their service 
level expectations.
The data given opposite relates to both the Construction and 
Services divisions. We have now agreed a new set of questions 
for measuring client satisfaction in a consistent way across 
the Group. Regular face-to-face discussions about our 
performance take place throughout the life of our contracts 
and relationships with clients. Formal measurement will be 
recorded no less than annually. Targets for responses and 
performance levels will be set in line with Vision 2020 and 
its goals relating to customer experience.
Going forward, we will benchmark our performance against the 
best in and out of sector and focus our business improvement 
activities on delivering a sector-leading customer experience.
Adding social, economic and environmental 
value to customer experience
The Group’s financial success and ability to win new work will 
be affected by how we address our social and environmental 
responsibilities.
The CR function works very closely with the bidding teams in 
Construction and Services establishing a CR/sustainability data 
base of best practice, data and case studies in support of 
our tender activities which include an increasing number of 
sustainability-related questions. Members of the bid and best 
practice teams for Construction, Services and Property sit in the 
Group CR Steering Committee to ensure a joined-up approach 
to these issues.
The Kier Foundation
The Kier Foundation, the registered charity that supports Kier 
employees in raising funds for good causes throughout the UK, 
provided £33,124 of support funding in the year for 123 
employee events in aid of 76 charities and good causes. The 
Foundation also concluded its relationship with the Group’s 
corporate charity partner, Barnardo’s, having raised £250,000 
by June 2014. The new Group corporate charity until June 
2016 is Macmillan Cancer Support.
The Kier Foundation is now an important part of the Kier 
culture and provides an invaluable link between our employees 
and their businesses and the local communities in which 
they operate. 
Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2014
The full Kier Group CR Report 2014, which gives a broad 
review of our sustainability programme, activities and 
achievements in the year to 30 June 2014, is available to 
download from the Corporate Responsibility section of our 
website at www.kier.co.uk/corporate-responsibility/downloads. 
This full report covers all of our CR performance data in the 
period and provides a range of information with a focus on 
social, environmental, marketplace and management issues. 
It also articulates in greater detail the work and achievements 
of The Kier Foundation.
KPMG LLP were engaged to deliver a limited assurance over 
selected performance data presented in our full CR report. 
For further details, KPMG’s full assurance statement is on our 
website. The full report has also been self-assessed to meet 
the GRI reporting guidelines at level C+ in accordance with the 
G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 
The CR section of our website (www.kier.co.uk/corporate-
responsibility) is regularly updated with the latest activities 
and performance data and contains all of our latest 
reports, policies and contact details for the Group 
CR team. 
We are currently working closely with British Land through 
the use of one of the Group’s projects, Glasgow Fort, acting 
as a pilot  to test the implementation of their new Supply 
Chain Sustainability Charter. This Charter addresses 12 major 
issues of sustainability under the four headings of: Social; 
Environmental; Ethical; and Management. Since most of these 
topics selected by British Land mirror those identified through 
our stakeholder engagement exercise, our participation in this 
pilot scheme will help us to develop and then verify our 
alignment with other customer aspirations. 
Customer engagement such as this will help the Group ensure 
that we understand and better deliver the financial and non-
financial value to customers.
Continued engagement – case study
31
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Principal risks and uncertainties
The nature of the industries and the business environment in which the Group operates are inherently 
risky. Although it is recognised that it is not possible to eliminate all such risks and uncertainties, the 
Group has well-established risk management and internal control systems – a more detailed description 
may be found on pages 65 to 66.
We reviewed and assessed the risks below:
Risk Strategy 
impact
Mitigation Ranking 
(post 
mitigation)
Change 
from 2013
Main causes 
of movement
Funding 
The Property division relies heavily on capital 
provided by the Group, while the Construction and 
Services divisions rely heavily on Group bonding 
facilities. Without these, revenue and profit 
would reduce.
2
Cash flow is forecast regularly so as to provide 
up-to-date and accurate information on the 
Group’s cash position and its requirements.
Borrowing facilities have been recently renegotiated 
and extended. The Group has strong, long-term 
relationships with its bondsmen and has an 
in-house team which monitors headroom and 
advises on bond terms and conditions.
The Investment Committee is responsible for 
approving capital investment and optimising the 
allocation of capital.
4
The market 
The Group’s strategy is dependent on the planned 
level of expenditure within both the public and 
private sectors. Whilst there are early signs of 
recovery within global economies there is the risk 
that business opportunities assumed within the 
Group’s strategy are delayed. Smaller markets will 
result in both lower revenues for the Group and 
lower margins due to more competitive bidding.
2 The Group has a structure to manage and mitigate 
risk with the following key components:
• A wide geographic regional network of offices 
across the UK well integrated into local 
communities, the client base and the 
supply chain;
• A high number of framework agreements and 
partnerships with government, local authorities 
and the private sector; and
• A strong sector diversity allowing it to react to 
evolving opportunities in the marketplace.
The Group also carries out monthly and quarterly 
reviews of its workload and forecasts its overhead 
levels as a percentage of future work in order to 
maintain a steady ratio of overhead costs to 
revenue. Fuel and other materials that are in high 
demand, such as steel, are hedged or forward-
purchased when deemed necessary.
8
Tender pricing 
The work for which Kier tenders is often complex 
and long-term with significant associated risks. 
Tender assumptions may be inaccurate or the 
risks associated with the tender may not be fully 
understood. If risks are under-priced, contract 
losses and potential reputational damage will 
result. If risks are over-priced, order books 
will suffer.
3
 
4 The Group’s appetite for very long-term, large, 
competitively tendered construction contracts is 
limited, influenced by the desire to maintain 
quality of workload and manage risk. Tenders for 
contracts are subject to approval by the CEO / COO 
/ CFO or divisional directors, depending upon the 
value and nature of the contract. Tenders with 
defined specific risks are reviewed by the Risk 
Review Committee.
7
Contract delivery 
The Group carries out several hundred contracts 
annually and the risks to which the Group is 
exposed are dependent on the nature of the 
work, the duration and the legal form of the 
contract. If these risks are not managed 
effectively the Group will suffer contract losses, 
delays and potential reputational damage.
3
 
4 Contracts in progress are controlled and managed 
through the Group’s operating structure and 
procedures, including rigorous and regular review of 
the forecast revenue and costs to complete.
2
32
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk Strategy 
impact
Mitigation Ranking 
(post 
mitigation)
Change 
from 2013
Main causes 
of movement
Reputation 
The Group’s ability to tender for new business and 
its relationship with its range of customers, supply 
chain partners, its employees and other 
stakeholders depends in large part on the good 
reputation that it has established and how it is 
perceived by others. The Group’s growth targets will 
not be achieved if this risk is not managed.
2
 
4
In order to protect and enhance its reputation, 
the Group has a robust series of business ethics, 
sustainability and compliance policies that help 
deliver the Group’s corporate responsibility 
programme, which addresses issues such as health 
and safety, environmental impact, climate change, 
employees, customers and supply chain and 
community engagement.
6
People 
The Group is dependent on members of its senior 
management team and on a flexible, highly skilled 
and well-motivated workforce. As core markets 
emerge from recession, employee turnover has 
increased. If the Group does not succeed in 
attracting, developing and retaining skilled people it 
will not be able to grow the business as anticipated.
2
 
5 The Group monitors staff turnover closely and 
pay and conditions are reviewed regularly against 
the prevailing market and benchmarked to 
ensure that we remain competitive.
Succession planning and staff development are 
managed at all levels in the Group. The Group has 
a performance review process which is designed 
to assist in the career development of its staff and 
also to identify potential successors to roles within 
the Group (including at senior management level).
1 Resource 
shortages as 
market recover
Systems 
The efficient operation of the Group is increasingly 
dependent on the proper operation, performance 
and development of its IT systems. The Group is 
maintaining legacy systems prior to implementing 
an ERP system. If implementation is unsuccessful, 
this will impact the Group’s efficiency and 
profitability.
3
 
6 Group IT centrally manages the majority of 
systems across the Group. Other IT systems are 
managed locally by experienced IT personnel.
Significant investments in IT systems are subject 
to Board review and approval. In addition, the 
Group has an Information Security Committee.
3 Stretched 
front-office 
systems in 
Services following 
May Gurney 
acquisition
Compliance 
The Group is subject to a number of complex, 
demanding and evolving legal and regulatory 
requirements. A breach of laws or regulations could 
lead to legal proceedings, investigations or disputes 
resulting in a disruption of business, ranging from 
additional costs incurred on a project to civil and/or 
criminal penalties as well as reputational damage.
1
 
4 The Group monitors and responds to legal and 
regulatory developments in the areas in which it 
operates. It is the Group’s policy to require that all 
of its subsidiaries, employees, suppliers and 
subcontractors comply with applicable laws and 
regulations. Training is provided on relevant areas of 
law and regulation, including e-learning courses, to 
keep all parties fully aware of their responsibilities.
Contracts entered into by the Group are subjected 
to a review process to ensure that contractual risks 
are identified and, wherever possible, mitigated 
appropriately.
9
Safety 
The Group’s activities are inherently complex and 
potentially hazardous, and require the continuous 
monitoring and management of health, safety and 
environmental risks.
Failure to manage these risks could result in injury 
to employees, subcontractors or members of the 
public or damage to the environment. This could 
also expose the Group to significant potential 
liability and reputational damage.
1
 
2
Detailed policies and procedures exist to minimise 
such risks and are subject to review and monitoring 
by the operating businesses and Group. All operating 
businesses have a director who is responsible for 
co-ordinating health and safety activities.
5
Change 
In the last 12 months, the Group has acquired May 
Gurney and restructured its management, and now 
plans to implement an ERP system. The volume 
and pace of change risks diverting management 
attention away from core operations, causing 
a loss of focus on key market opportunities.
3
 
6 Risks associated with the current change 
programmes have been identified by the Board and 
the Risk Management and Audit Committee 
as requiring particular focus. A steering group, 
led by the chief operating officer and reporting 
regularly to the Board, has been established to 
address them and ensure that appropriate controls 
are in place to mitigate them.
10 n/a Not deemed a 
principal risk in 
2013
Strategic objectives
1   Operate a safe and 
sustainable business 
 
2  Accelerate growth to be a top three 
player in all our markets
3  Achieve top quartile performance 
and efficiency
4  Provide sector leading customer 
experience
5  Attract and retain highly motivated, 
high performing teams
6  Ensure we have investment in 
technology and back-office systems
Movement
Minor Increased net risk
Moderate Unchanged net risk
Major Reduced net risk
Critical
33
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  1
 Underlying operating profits and margins are stated before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights. 
Reported Property operating profit was £18.5m (2013: £20.5m).
Divisional review: Property and Residential
The development business focuses predominantly 
on non speculative opportunities. 
From 1 July 2014 Kier’s house building activities  
were brought into one division, Kier Residential.
Revenue was £284m (2013: £238m) generating an 
operating profit
1
 of £21.0m (2013: £20.5m). This 
impressive result was achieved by the development 
business on the basis of average capital investment of 
£70m. Opportunities in retail, commercial, industrial and 
mixed-use schemes generated a return on capital of 15%. 
A profit of £6m was generated from the disposal of two of 
our PFI investments and the activities of our private and 
affordable housing businesses.
Property development
The development business concentrates predominantly 
on non speculative opportunities where elements of the 
schemes are forward sold or pre-let, thereby reducing 
the associated risk and demands on the Group’s capital 
and cash. 
In January, Costco exercised its pre-emption right and 
forward funded their £41m membership warehouse 
at our site at Western International Market, Hayes. 
Kier Construction was appointed as contractor and the 
building achieved practical completion at the end of 
June. At Bracknell a 39,000sqft light industrial scheme 
was forward funded, 83% pre-let to Travis Perkins with 
construction completed in November and the scheme fully 
let by June. At Feltham a 41,000sqft distribution depot 
was forward funded, fully pre-let to Geopost and achieved 
practical completion in June.
The Trade City brand for industrial development performed 
well with funded schemes at Hayes (60,000sqft) and 
Uxbridge (120,000sqft) reaching practical completion 
in the second half with strong interest from potential 
occupiers. Investors continue to show interest in the 
Trade City brand with recent deals signed with DTZIM 
and Investec, the latter releasing up to £50m of funding 
for future Trade City developments.
With an improvement in the London and south east 
economy, the office development market has been active. 
Examples of such opportunities include a 60,000sqft 
office development in Hammersmith, London which was 
acquired for £11m and in which Investec has become 
our joint venture partner. The property has planning 
permission for offices over seven floors and will be 
Revenue
£284m +19%
(2013: £238m)
Operating profit
1
£21.0m +2%
(2013: £20.5m)
Employees
411 
(2013: 350)
34
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Costco 
Costco forward funded their £41m 
membership warehouse at Kier  
Property’s site at Western 
International Market, Hayes.  
Kier Construction was  
appointed as contractor  
and the building  
achieved practical  
completion at the  
end of June.
35
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  redeveloped, with construction set to commence in early 
2015. In addition demolition work is underway at Audit 
House, 58 Victoria Embankment, London in which Kier 
holds a 16% equity stake and is the development 
manager, with Kier Construction appointed as building 
contractor. In Northampton, a five year option agreement 
on the Waterside site with Northampton Borough Council 
for office use was also signed. These opportunities reflect 
the buoyancy of the office market.
In the retail and mixed-use sector, construction 
commenced on the £25m retail and leisure development 
at Catterick in joint venture with Lingfield. The cinema and 
food and beverage outlets are pre-let and the retail units 
more than 80% pre-let with the remainder of the space 
under offer. 
In the hotel sector, a 108 room Travelodge and retail 
units at Hemel Hempstead were sold for a total cash 
consideration of £8m and in August, construction 
started on a 222 bed hotel for Motel 1 in Newcastle.
Solum Regeneration, our joint venture with Network Rail, 
has in excess of £500m of mixed used schemes in its 
portfolio and a number of significant regeneration 
schemes are underway including Christchurch, Guildford, 
Haywards Heath, Redhill, Twickenham and Walthamstow.
Last September the £240m Watford Health Campus 
project reached its first critical milestone with the award 
of planning for the main link road through the site. 
Construction of the road using third party funding is 
expected to start later this year and will enable the phased 
land draw-down and development of the remainder of the 
scheme. The scheme is for the regeneration of land 
around the Watford General Hospital and will deliver 
375,000sqft of mixed-use development to the area, 
including 650 new homes.
PFI and structured finance
The strategy to sell mature PFI investments continued 
with  the disposal of Kier’s equity stakes in the North 
Kent Police project and Kent Schools project for a total 
consideration of £16m, representing a valuation discount 
rate on future cash flows of approximately 7%. The 
portfolio of PFI investments was also replenished. 
Financial close was reached on both the London Fire 
Service and Staffordshire Fire Service PFI schemes, which 
between them will provide twenty new fire stations at a 
combined value of £73m, and also the Woking PFI housing 
scheme in consortium with Thames Valley Housing. 
In the education sector Kier was named preferred bidder 
for the North and East Ayrshire Schools DBFM schemes 
as part of its investment in the South West Hub scheme 
in Scotland. With the market for student accommodation 
increasing, an £81m contract to build and maintain 1,376 
rooms of student accommodation at Salford University 
was closed and we have purchased one building and 
completed another for delivery of 264 student rooms 
in Glasgow.
The current portfolio of PFI projects totals eight 
schemes, two at preferred bidder stage and the remainder 
in construction or operational. The committed equity 
investment stands at £19m (2013: £22m) of which £11m 
(2013: £15m) has been invested to date. The directors’ 
valuation at a discount rate of 7.5% is £34m (2013: £35m).
Renewable energy firm Biogen, a 50/50 joint venture 
between Kier and Bedfordia, secured £10m of further 
funding from the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), taking the 
total funding to £22m under a fully flexible arrangement to 
support the continued expansion of the business. During 
the year construction was completed on two new Biogen 
plants in Wales and financial close reached with the 
Divisional review: Property and Residential continued
Harlow ▲ 
Kier has a long-
standing relationship 
with Harlow Council 
providing building repair 
and maintenance and 
environmental 
services. When the 
Council wanted to 
regenerate spare land, 
Kier was appointed by 
the Council to construct 
nine detached luxury 
private houses.
36
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Tomorrow’s Valley Hub for a plant in Rhondda, South 
Wales. With two further plants underway in Hertfordshire 
and Warwickshire, this brings the total number of plants 
either operating, in construction or planning to seven. Kier 
has a 50% investment in Biogen (UK) Holdings Ltd which 
develops, constructs and operates these facilities.
Residential
The past twelve months have seen a sustained recovery in 
the UK housing market and significantly increased levels 
of activity in both our private and housing businesses 
resulting in a significant increase in revenue. In the year 
our partnership homes business completed 461 units with 
£25m invested. Highlights of the period for the affordable 
homes business included the commencement of Manor 
Kingsway, a flagship £90m development in Derby where 
32 new homes were completed and the completion of 
68 new homes in Balaam Wood, Birmingham.
In our private housing business, Kier Homes, we 
completed 601 units from a sales rate of 0.7 units per 
active site per week. The homes business completed the 
purchase of 290 plots across four sites and exchanged 
conditional contracts on a further 300 plots which when 
combined with unit and land sales resulted in the land 
bank reducing to 3,672 plots (June 2013: 4,005). The 
Government Help to Buy scheme contributed 42% of 
private sales.
Sixteen new developments commenced on our own land 
over the past twelve months at Aylesbury, Gamlingay, 
Harlow, Little Paxton St Neots, Worthing, and Paisley 
near Glasgow. 
Property and Residential outlook
Development activity is mainly influenced by occupier 
requirements which are improving across the UK. Equally, 
this demand is being supported by an increase in lending 
from banks and major institutions in the development 
market. The structured finance business is exploring new 
markets including the student accommodation and elderly 
care markets with further scope for developments with local 
authorities. The non speculative approach of the property 
development business will continue, with invested capital 
increasing towards £200m by 2020 enabling larger 
opportunities and a ROCE target towards 20%.
From 1 July 2014 Kier’s house building activities were 
brought into one division branded Kier Living, enabling 
the Group to scale up its residential activities whilst 
redeploying our land bank into mixed tenure housing. Kier 
Living is well placed to respond to the UK’s requirement for 
more new houses.
Demand for Kier’s affordable housing market remains 
high with a forward order book of more than £400m 
representing 3,400 plots. There is a good flow of 
opportunities from our partnerships and frameworks 
with the HCA, local authorities and housing associations 
which, when linked to the Government’s affordable 
housing grant programme, will provide a strong platform 
for housing growth and affordable housing delivery taking 
the combined residential activity of this new division to 
4,000 units by 2020.
Trade City ►  
Two Trade City 
forward funded 
sites at Hayes 
(60,000sqft) 
and Uxbridge 
(120,000sqft) 
reached practical 
completion in the 
second half with 
strong interest from 
potential occupiers.
Walthamstow ► 
Solum Regeneration, 
the partnership 
between Network Rail 
and Kier Property, is 
investing a further 
£20m in a second 
phase of development 
in Walthamstow, 
London providing a 
further boost to 
the regeneration 
ambitions of the 
town centre.
Trade City
19.5%
Resi 
& Land 
Sales
12%
Hotel &
Leisure
16.5%
Retail
17%
Offices
15%
Structured 
Finance
20%
Structured Finance 20%
Joint Ventures 10.5%
Pre-lets 33%
Land Led Regeneration 16.5%
Trade City 20%
Our property markets
37
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Divisional review: Construction
Kier is one of the UK’s leading regional builders,  
with growing infrastructure and international businesses.
Revenue was up 22% to £1.6bn (2013: £1.3bn) reflecting 
significant market and contract growth over the period, 
particularly within the infrastructure and international 
businesses. This resulted in an operating profit increase 
of 11% to £33.6m (2013: £30.4m). Operating margins 
were resilient at 2.1% (2013: 2.3%). The cash position at 
30 June 2014 of £274m held up well given the continued 
challenging working capital conditions.
The order book of secured and probable work, at £2.5bn, 
represents more than 90% of the forecast revenue for the 
2015 financial year, on increasing volumes.
The increase in market activity has resulted in some price 
inflation with rising labour costs and commodity prices. 
However, Kier’s use of frameworks, greater use of two 
stage bidding and established supply chain management 
helped to mitigate this impact. Kier has a large presence 
in the health, education, defence, commercial and 
residential sectors with an evenly balanced contribution 
from both public and private sectors.
UK regional building and major projects
The improvement in the construction market in the south, 
and increasingly in the north and regions, has seen growth 
particularly in the commercial and residential sector with 
revenues in excess of £900m. 
The increased building of high-rise flats and regeneration 
projects, particularly in London, has generated significant 
opportunities for Kier’s major projects business such as 
the Argent development at King’s Cross where work on 
the £74m T1 mixed-use and residential development 
commenced this year. The £50m Knight Dragon high-rise 
residential project on the Greenwich Peninsula, where Kier 
has been appointed as preferred bidder, illustrates the 
increasing demand in the high-rise sector. Regeneration 
schemes are also flourishing outside of London, including 
the £600m Cardiff Pointe mixed-use scheme, where Kier 
is building the first phase of ninety-eight luxury 
townhouses and apartments including an ice rink.
Revenue
£1,597m +22%
(2013: £1,307m)
Operating profit
1
£33.6m
 
+11%
(2013: £30.4m)
Operating margin
1
2.1%
 
(2013: 2.3%)
Order book
£2.5bn +12%
(2013: £2.3bn)
Employees
3,720 
(2013: 3,911)
1
 Underlying operating profits and margins are stated before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights. 
Reported Construction operating profit was £25.4m (2013: £21.4m).
38
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Cheltenham
In March The Jockey Club 
announced the appointment  
of Kier as the main contractor to  
deliver its £45m state-of-the-art  
new grandstand development  
at its flagship Cheltenham  
Racecourse in time for  
The Festival 2016.
39
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  With a spread of regional operations and an established 
supply chain, Kier is well placed for local and regional 
framework opportunities, operating on over forty headline 
frameworks. During the year a record level of opportunities 
and awards were secured from this source. Regional and 
local frameworks, like the south-east and south-west 
Wales contractors frameworks which are soon to be 
awarded, are particularly key to local economies, 
supporting local training schemes and highlight 
Kier’s regional penetration.
Kier continues to be very active in the health sector with work 
continuing on the £120m Broadmoor redevelopment and the 
£43m West London Mental Health Trust. Kier was selected 
as preferred bidder on fifteen of the twenty-three schemes 
announced under the National ProCure 21+ framework in the 
period, in total worth more than £500m. As a leading 
provider on the ProCure 21+ framework, awards included the 
£130m University of North Staffordshire NHS Development 
and Capital Programme and a new £22m Emergency Centre 
for the Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust which is already 
under construction.
The Education Funding Agency (EFA) procures around 
£2bn of education facilities through its national and 
other complementary frameworks. Kier has recently been 
awarded a place on all six of the EFA regional frameworks 
with a combined opportunity value up to £5bn over the 
next four years. Kier has secured up to £290m of EFA 
funded schemes through either the EFA Contractors 
Frameworks or the LHC Frameworks. Notable awards in 
the period include three Priority Schools Building 
Programme schemes in the north east, east and 
Nottingham worth a combined £154m. 
The number of local authorities utilising the Scape 
National Minor Works Framework continues to increase 
and has resulted in £120m of awards to Kier in the period. 
It is anticipated that the benefits of procuring minor works 
through an effective performance managed framework will 
result in greater activity via the framework over the next 
twelve months.
In the defence sector, the three-year £400m National 
Ministry of Defence (MoD) framework for capital works up 
to £50m is now providing a visible pipeline of opportunities. 
This complements the significant progress the Group 
made in the year of developing its presence in the defence 
sector following the award of the £121m first phase of the 
Defence Technical Training change programme at RAF 
Lyneham, secured in December 2013. 
Post year-end a contract was awarded to build a 
new 270,000sqft HQ for Total E&P UK in Aberdeen, 
construction commencing spring 2015.
Infrastructure
With revenues c£400m in the year and future UK 
Government investment in power, roads, rail and water 
anticipated, this business performed strongly.
Kier is the UK’s largest builder of gas-fired power stations 
and has many opportunities across the power sector 
including work on Phase 2 at the Hinkley Point C nuclear 
power station. Work in this sector is also continuing with 
Urenco and Sellafield and there are future opportunities 
over the medium to long term. In the energy sector, work 
is progressing well on our energy from waste projects in 
both Plymouth and Wakefield which are scheduled to 
complete in the next financial year.
With economic growth a priority and roads and highways 
playing a vital role in achieving this goal, growth in the 
highways and bridges sectors continued, culminating in 
the financial close of the £450m Mersey Gateway six 
lane toll bridge and the successful completion of the 
Berryfields link road.
Divisional review: Construction continued
Christophe Harbour, 
St Kitts ▲
In October 2013 
Range Developments, 
a leading hospitality 
developer, appointed 
Kier Construction 
for Phase 1 of the 
£50m Park Hyatt 
St Kitts project. The 
project, planned for 
completion in 2015, 
will produce a 
world-class resort 
hotel at Christophe 
Harbour, a 2,500-acre 
resort community 
being developed on 
the Caribbean island 
of St Kitts. 
40
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014  Education
 Living/residential
 Health
 Transportation
 Commercial and 
 mixed use
 Power, industrial, 
 utilities and waste 
 (incl nuclear)
 International
 Defence
 Other
Construction revenue by sector
Our penetration of the rail and water sectors has benefited 
from the integration of May Gurney, which provides a 
larger, more sustainable workload for the infrastructure 
business and broader client exposure. Kier has won 
places on a number of rail frameworks including the 
Network Rail Western and Wales regional framework, 
level crossing and type C signalling frameworks. Work on 
Crossrail progresses well with completion of some of the 
works at both Liverpool Street and the western running 
tunnels expected in the next twelve months. In the water 
sector, work began on the £180m Deephams sewerage 
treatment works upgrade, in joint venture with Aecom and 
Murphy, with additional water projects in excess of £100m 
to deliver under the United Utility AMP6 framework in joint 
venture with Murphy and Interserve.
International
The international business doubled revenue, despite 
operational challenges and time delays in the Mass Transit 
Rail Corporation timetable that affected the Hong Kong 
joint venture infrastructure contracts. Growth was 
underpinned by major project successes in the Caribbean 
and the Middle East, including the £43m Park Hyatt Hotel 
in St. Kitts, two infrastructure projects, the Dubai Parks 
project worth £47m and the Dubai University, a prestigious 
building contract of approximately £26m, together with the 
ongoing major rail contracts in Hong Kong.
Post year end two contracts totaling c£120m were 
awarded in Abu Dhabi; the £105m joint venture contract 
award for a prestigious hotel and spa in Abu Dhabi and 
the £87m joint venture with Mercury to build a new data 
centre for a UAE bank.
Construction outlook
The Construction division’s performance this year 
was supported by a more buoyant UK market which is 
growing at approximately 5%* a year. This trend provides 
opportunities particularly in new market sectors such as 
industrials, defence and aviation. It is anticipated that 
completion of the European review of the nuclear sector 
expected in October will see further investment in nuclear 
power and provide clarity on other forms of power generation. 
The outlook for national frameworks over the next twelve 
months is predicted to provide a steady stream of 
opportunities particularly in the health, education and 
defence sectors.
It is anticipated that there will be a rising level of 
opportunities in the UAE supporting growth in our 
international operations. In Dubai, the real estate, tourism, 
transportation and infrastructure sectors are all yielding 
good opportunities as the economy recovers strongly and 
as the Emirate prepares for EXPO 2020. In Abu Dhabi, 
there is also a growing pipeline of good prospects across 
transportation, tourism, healthcare, education, industrials, 
water and defence, as well as a steady stream of 
opportunities in the oil and gas sector.
In the Caribbean there remains a steady stream of 
opportunities in the private sector, particularly in the 
tourism sector, resulting in major hotel projects in both 
Haiti and St Kitts.
The order book of secured and probable work at £2.5bn, 
includes more than 90% of the forecast revenue for 
the 2015 financial year, on increasing volumes. With 
increased infrastructure and international businesses, 
it is anticipated that the Construction division margin 
will increase to 2.5% over the next 5 to 6 years.
* Source: CPA 
Plymouth ►
Work is well underway 
on the main 
construction works 
for MVV Umwelt’s 
Energy from Waste 
plant at Weston Mill in 
Devonport Dockyard, 
Plymouth. This project 
further endorses 
Kier’s position as the 
UK’s number one 
contractor for 
power-related 
infrastructure.
Crossrail ►
Kier’s involvement in 
Europe’s largest 
engineering project, 
Crossrail, has enabled 
the Group to penetrate 
other parts of the rail 
market. Through 
its joint venture with 
BAM, Kier is currently 
involved in four 
packages of 
Crossrail work.
41
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Divisional review: Services
With a broad range of capability and a wide geographic spread, 
the division is well placed to win new outsourcing opportunities 
arising in the marketplace.
Revenue was up 153% to £1.1bn (2013: £437m) benefiting 
from the increased breadth of capability and strengthening 
of client-partnerships following the May Gurney integration 
which has been substantially completed. Operating profit
1
 
of £53.3m (2013: £19.3m) was up 176%. An increase in 
operating margin
1
 to 4.8% reflects the increased range of 
services available to clients and the ability to bid for a 
greater number and larger scale contracts. As anticipated, 
£5m of cost savings was delivered with a further £20m by 
2016. The fair value of the loss-making contracts of May 
Gurney was assessed in the year and a provision of £73m 
has been taken, a slight increase since December 2013 
reflecting completion of further contract and balance 
sheet reviews.
The order book at 30 June 2014 of £3.7bn (2013: £2.0bn) 
provides a good visibility of work, having secured over 
£1.1bn of new contracts during the year including the 
£1.7bn May Gurney order book. This includes more than 
90% of targeted revenue for 2015. The order book does 
not include contract extensions, which, if included, would 
add a further £2.1bn to the order book.
The cash position of £13m at 30 June 2014 reflects the 
£37m overdraft acquired with May Gurney and continued 
investment in future growth.
The May Gurney acquisition has significantly strengthened 
Kier’s penetration of the utilities and highways maintenance 
marketplaces, as well as giving the division an increased 
presence in environmental services. Kier’s overall market 
share is below 1.5% in an addressable services market 
worth in excess of £80bn. Therefore, there is significant 
room for further penetration.
Greater co-operation between our Construction and 
Services divisions has resulted in larger contract awards 
in the year, for example, Anglian Water, where the client 
has procured both maintenance services and capex 
construction capabilities from the Group.
Over 70% of Services revenue comes from the public sector 
where budgets are increasingly constrained. With austerity 
still on the agenda, public sector bodies are continuing to 
outsource, albeit smaller value individual contracts, 
reflecting reduced budgets. Bundled service contracts, 
such as that with Torbay Council, provide clients with a 
Revenue
£1,104m +153%
(2013: £437m)
Operating profit
1
£53.3m +176%
(2013: £19.3m)
Operating margin
1
4.8%
(2013: 4.4%)
Order book
£3.7bn +85%
(2013: £2.0bn)
Employees
10,813 
(2013: 5,595)
1
 Underlying operating profits and margins are stated before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights. 
Reported Services operating profit was £32.6m (2013: £9.3m).
42
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Anglian Water
Since the May Gurney acquisition,  
new works with Anglian Water have  
increased with Kier now on three  
of the four Anglian frameworks.  
Kier continues to work with  
the client to help them  
reduce their overall  
cost base.
43
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  breadth of offerings and enable to provide cross-sector 
packages including bespoke packages of support covering 
investment, building and maintenance. In addition, many of 
our skills, such as housing maintenance, are transferable to 
private sector clients and further inroads are being made on 
increasing our presence in this market, as evidenced by the 
award of the Genesis and Metropolitan housing 
maintenance contracts.
Utilities
Kier’s penetration of the utilities sector continues to expand 
into water, energy and telecoms. Contract awards, including 
awards under the AMP6 bidding cycle, have been high in 
the year totalling £374m, demonstrating the greater 
capability of the Group. Most recent AMP6 awards include 
three five-year Anglian Water contracts with a total value of 
£250m and a contract worth up to £24m with Bournemouth 
Water. In addition, a £20m pa network maintenance 
services programme has been secured with Bristol Water. 
In August this year the £25m pa Canal & River Trust 
National Engineering & Construction Contract (NECC) for 
England and Wales was secured and Kier was named 
preferred bidder on Severn Trent’s two-year £7m pa 
contract for provision of asset maintenance solutions 
with a possible five-year extension.
Through the Team Van Oord joint venture, £21m worth of 
projects have been awarded by the Environment Agency 
for flood defence and flood remediation work.
In the power distribution sector, this year’s awards have 
included a new £107m five-year utilities contracts, with 
Western Power Distribution, giving Kier a foothold in this 
market and extending Kier’s operational reach across 
Somerset and Bristol.
Further opportunities exist in the AMP6 cycle as well as 
new opportunities in the power transmission and fixed 
telecoms markets.
Housing maintenance
With Kier’s established track record in housing maintenance, 
new awards in the year were over £430m and included the 
£110m three-year Sheffield housing maintenance contract 
with additional contracts from Aberdeenshire Council, 
Riverside Housing Association in Merseyside and through 
the North East Procure Framework.
Kier was selected by Grainger plc, the UK’s largest listed 
residential property owner and manager, to be the sole 
provider of tenant repairs and maintenance services 
across its UK portfolio. The contract, which commenced 
on 1 September 2013, is for a ten-year period and has an 
annual value of £5m. In addition, an initial £110m contract 
with Metropolitan Housing commenced, with further 
opportunities with this client in the pipeline. A four-year 
£140m repairs and maintenance contract commences 
this October with Genesis Housing Association, one of the 
G15 housing associations, providing support to over 33,000 
properties. Kier was also named preferred bidder for Four 
Housing Group on a £7m pa three-year contract for a planned 
programme of works to homes in Northumberland. Further 
opportunities exist with other G15 housing associations.
Highways maintenance
The highways business is continuing to benefit from 
increased Government spending in infrastructure. The 
National Infrastructure Plan includes £24bn for highways 
maintenance and highway management. In addition the 
Autumn Statement confirmed that Central Government 
would invest an additional £1bn over a five-year 
programme on highways maintenance.
Operating across approximately one fifth of the UK 
landmass, our long-term, typically ten-year contracts require 
consistent high quality service and working in partnership 
with local authorities. As a strategic partner, Kier can assist 
local authorities to refine their spending plans and 
Divisional review: Services continued
Genesis▲ 
Kier secured a 
four-year £140m 
repairs and 
maintenance contract 
with Genesis Housing 
Association, one of the 
G15 who represent 
London’s fifteen 
largest housing 
associations. Kier 
provides responsive 
repair services to over 
10,000 Genesis 
properties, as well as 
undertaking planned 
maintenance work 
across the whole 
Genesis portfolio 
of 33,000 homes.
44
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Utilities
Housing 
maintenance
Highways 
maintenance
Facilities management
Environmental
Fleet & passenger 
services
Services revenue by sector
discussions are underway with a number of councils 
including Northamptonshire County Council, Surrey County 
Council and Suffolk County Council, where the new £200m 
contract was mobilised this year. Kier’s greater capability in 
this sector following the May Gurney acquisition has led to 
further opportunities with the Highways Agency.
Facilities management
The FM business is being reshaped and will be expanded 
both organically and by acquisition. The FM business 
delivered a record number of awards including Epsom and 
Ewell Borough Council, DTZ, London Fire PFI, Stoke and 
Staffordshire Fire PFI, QinetiQ, Sheffield City Council and 
the Welsh Government, reflecting client recognition of the 
importance of rigorous maintenance programmes and 
well-managed life-cycle costs. After the year end, new 
contracts were awarded by Solent NHS, Kent County 
Council and the London Borough of Camden for FM 
services, the latter’s offices being built by Kier at King’s 
Cross. These wins add scale and wider geography to 
the FM business.
Other
The acquired May Gurney environmental services 
businesses remain challenging. As previously reported, 
the environmental business and fleet & passenger 
services businesses remain under review.
Services outlook
With increased attention on regulated sectors such 
as telecoms and water and the increasing pressure 
on local authority budgets, it is anticipated the number 
of opportunities available to the Services division will 
increase considerably. In the housing maintenance 
business, the sharing of our skillsets to other G15 
authorities and selling to the private sector will continue. 
As well as extending our highways capability to existing 
and new clients, we continue to look at opportunities 
arising from the district councils and the Highways Agency. 
With a less than 0.5% market share in the sector, our 
FM business is focused on the strength of its technical 
services and growing its presence with private clients. 
Kier’s range of capabilities and geographic reach position 
it well for further outsourcing opportunities in the future 
and it is anticipated that the Services division margin will 
grow to above 5%.
FM ► 
With a foothold in the 
£44bn FM market,  
the business is 
reshaping to extend  
its geographic reach 
for growth both 
organically and by 
acquisition. 
“ G r ea t e r i n t e ra c t ion 
between our Construction 
and Services divisions 
has resulted in additional 
or larger scale contracts 
in the year.”
FM ► 
Kier combines the 
latest technology, 
logistics expertise and 
innovative service 
design to provide a 
complete range of 
environmental 
services tailored to 
meet the individual 
needs of local 
communities. Our 
customer-focused 
front-line delivery 
teams serve more 
than 3.2 million 
households across 
the UK, working in 
long-term partnership 
with more than 20 
public and private 
sector clients.
45
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Operating profit* (£m)
£88.0m  +59% 
Profit before tax* (£m) 
£73.1m  +54% 
Earnings per share* (p) 
107.7p  +2% 
Dividend per share (p) 
72.0p  +6% 
* Underlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before exceptional items totalling £42.2m (2013: £17.0m), 
amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights of £10.8m (2013: £3.4m) and unwind of discount in respect of deferred 
consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition of £5.3m (2013: £1.3m). Reported operating profit was £35.0m 
(2013: £35.1m). 2013 results have been restated to reflect this presentation (see note 4 page 106) and the adoption of the amendment 
to IAS 19 (see note 31 page 132).
†
  Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31 page 132).
1
 Group and share of joint ventures.
In conjunction with the chairman’s statement and the 
chief executive’s strategic review, this report provides 
further information on key aspects of the financial 
performance and the financial position of the Group. 
Accounting policies 
The Group’s annual consolidated financial statements 
have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards. There have been no 
significant changes to the accounting policies adopted 
by the Group during the year ended 30 June 2014 other 
than the adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 
31 page 132). 
Financial performance
Reported results and underlying results, which are stated 
before non-underlying items, are shown in the table 
opposite.
Underlying financial performance 
Revenue has increased by 51% (£1.0bn), reflecting 
growth in all divisions, particularly in Services where 
the acquisition of May Gurney has had a significant effect. 
On a like for like basis, adjusting for the acquisition of May 
Gurney, revenue has increased by 13%. 
The revenue from our Property division is derived from 
the combined £1.5bn property development and mixed 
tenure housing pipeline. With effect from 1 July 2014, the 
three existing areas of Kier’s house building activities: 
private housing; mixed tenure housing (previously part of 
Property); and contracted residential projects (previously 
part of Construction) were brought together into a new 
division, Kier Residential, which will be reported as a 
single business segment going forward. 
Construction revenue was up 22% to £1.6bn (2013: £1.3bn) 
reflecting considerable market and contract growth, 
particularly in the infrastructure and international businesses. 
In Services, the May Gurney acquisition increased revenue 
significantly, with the addition of the utilities and highways 
maintenance businesses, as well as giving an increased 
presence in environmental. Housing maintenance has also 
seen good organic growth from previously announced 
contract wins including the £200m Circle contract.
Operating profit, including joint ventures, was 59% higher 
than last year at £88.0m, reflecting a strong underlying 
performance combined with a significant contribution 
from May Gurney. On a like for like basis, adjusting for 
the acquisition of May Gurney, operating profit* has 
increased by 3%.
Financial review
Strong results
The Group has considerable financial resources, committed 
banking facilities, long-term contracts and strong order books, 
putting it in a strong position for the future.
46
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14 2,985
13 1,983
12 2,069
11 2,179
10 2,099
Revenue (£m)
£2,985m +51%
The results of our Property division, which include our property 
development activities, the operating profit* of our private and 
mixed tenure housing businesses and the disposal profits 
from selling two of our PFI investments, contributed £21.0m 
of the total Group operating profit*; a similar level to last year. 
The property development business achieved its target of 15% 
return on capital and our PFI investments were replaced at 
a similar rate to the disposals. The residential businesses 
reported increased operating profit* of £4.9m (2013: £4.3m) 
from growth in our mixed tenure housing activities.
The operating margin* in Construction of 2.1% was in line 
with our expectations of around 2% and represents a good 
performance in today’s market, reflecting the selective 
approach we have to new work, our prudent profit recognition 
policy and the benefit of the restructuring programme 
undertaken in 2013. Robust performance in UK building 
and infrastructure, including continued good progress on 
our Crossrail contracts, was tempered by operational delays 
and challenges in the Mass Transit Rail Corporation timetable 
which affected our Hong Kong operations.
In Services, we achieved an operating margin* of 4.8%, 
reflecting the increased mix of services available to clients, 
generating additional and/or larger scale contracts and the 
realisation of cost savings arising from the integration 
of May Gurney. Utilities and highways maintenance both 
delivered results in line with our expectations whilst the 
contribution from housing maintenance reflected the 
impact of mobilising the Circle contract. As expected, the 
environmental services market was challenging whilst our 
FM business delivered a strong result, reflecting the effect 
of rigorous maintenance programmes thereby reducing 
total life-cycle costs.
Further information on the operating performance of each 
of the divisions is provided within the divisional reviews. 
The total corporate cost was £19.9m which includes: 
£13.6m of pension charges, following the adoption of 
the amendment to IAS 19, and £6.3m of unrecovered 
overhead, reflecting the increased scale of the Group, 
as well as increased central investment in risk and 
performance management, strategic procurement, 
IT and sector leadership.
Financial performance
2014 
£m 
2013
†
 
£m
Change
% 
Like for like
%
Revenue
1
 2,985 1,983 +51 +13
Underlying operating profit
*
 88.0 55.5 +59 +3
Profit before tax 
– Underlying
*
73.1 47.6 +54 
– Reported 14.8 25.9 -43
p p 
Earnings per share 
– Underlying
*
107.7 105.6 +2 
– Reported 18.4 62.6 -71
Dividend per share 72.0 68.0 +6
    
£m £m 
Average month-end net debt 140 4 
47
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  As described in the ‘Treasury facilities and policies’ 
section on page 50, our bank facilities were significantly 
extended on the acquisition of May Gurney in July 2013 
resulting in increased interest payable and fees on 
committed borrowings to £7.8m and interest payable 
on finance leases to £2.7m for the year.
Profit before tax* increased by 54% to £73.1m (2013: 
£47.6m
†
). This is stated before minority interests of £0.7m 
(2013: £1.0m) relating to the share of profits of our 
housing maintenance business which are attributable to 
contracts with local authorities. 
The Group’s effective tax rate, including joint venture 
tax on joint venture profits, has increased from 11%
†
 
last year to 19%, approximately 3% below the standard 
corporation tax rate. This low rate did not relate to 
aggressive tax planning schemes but reflected the 
contribution from selling two of our PFI investments and 
the reduction in the standard corporation tax rate. 
Earnings per share, were 2% higher than last year 
at 107.7p (2013: 105.6p
†
) reflecting both the increase in 
underlying profits and the significant increase in the 
weighted average number of shares. The key components 
of the increase in the number of shares were the shares 
issued on the acquisition of May Gurney Integrated 
Services, the scrip dividend alternative offered to 
shareholders and our employee Save As you Earn scheme.
Non-underlying items 
Non-underlying items comprise amortisation of intangible 
contract rights of £10.8m (2013: £3.4m), unwinding of 
discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value 
adjustments made on acquisition of £5.3m (2013: £1.3m)
and exceptional items of £42.2m (2013: £17.0m) before 
associated tax credit of £9.8m (2013: £4.8m). There were 
three main components of this year’s exceptional charge: 
2014 
£m
2013
 £m 
Costs relating to the 
acquisition of May Gurney 8.1 1.8
Restructuring and 
transformation costs 
following the acquisition of 
May Gurney 29.6 –
Construction Workers 
Compensation Scheme 
and related costs 4.5 –
Business restructuring – 10.1 
Closure and 
discontinuation of 
scaffolding and related 
businesses – 1.9
Loss on disposal of the 
tower crane and other 
discontinued businesses – 3.2 
Total exceptional items 42.2 17.0 
Corporate costs 
2014
 £m 
2013
†
 
£m
Change 
 £m 
Unrecovered overhead 6.3 1.6 4.7
IAS 19R Pension charge 13.6 13.1 0.5
Total 19.9 14.7 5.2
The Group’s net finance cost, analysed below, included interest payable arising from an average month-end net debt 
balance of £140m (2013: £4m) after the acquisition of May Gurney and considerable investment during the year.
Net finance costs
2014
 £m
2013
†
 
£m
Net interest payable on operating cash balances 1.5 0.1
Interest payable and fees on committed borrowings 7.8 3.0
Interest payable on finance leases 2.7 0.4
Unwinding of discount on long-term liabilities 1.1 1.5
Net interest on net defined benefit obligation 1.8 2.9
Total 14.9 7.9
* Underlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before exceptional items totalling £42.2m (2013: £17.0m), 
amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights of £10.8m (2013: £3.4m) and unwind of discount in respect of deferred 
consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition of £5.3m (2013: £1.3m). Reported operating profit was £35.0m 
(2013: £35.1m), reported pre-tax profit was £14.8m (2013: £25.9m) and reported EPS was 18.4p (2013: 62.6p). 2013 results 
have been restated to reflect this presentation (see note 4 page 106).
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31 page 132).
Financial review continued
48
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • £8.1m of deal costs and fees relating to the acquisition 
of May Gurney;
• £29.6m relating to business restructuring reflecting 
the one-off costs associated with the integration of 
May Gurney; and
• £4.5m predominantly in respect of costs incurred 
and provision for financial compensation under the 
previously announced Construction Workers 
Compensation Scheme and related costs. 
The cash outflow during the year in respect of exceptional 
items was approximately £36m (2013: £11m).
Cash performance 
The Group delivered a resilient cash performance, with 
an average month-end net debt balance of £140m 
(2013: £4m) after £76m cash cost of the investment in 
May Gurney, £36m cash outflow in respect of exceptional 
items, and nearly £130m of capital and investment across 
the Group, particularly in our mixed tenure housing 
business, the rest of the Property division and our fleet & 
passenger services business. This performance produced 
a net debt position, excluding finance leases, of £123m 
at 30 June 2014 (2013: net cash £60m).
Within the Group the cash balance at 30 June 2014 
(Construction at £274m and Services at £13m) 
represented a resilient performance. In addition to 
underlying trading, these performances included 
approximately £50m of capital and investment-related 
expenditure, a £36m cash effect of the restructuring 
activities and a working capital outflow of £50m mainly 
in Construction, predominantly in the first half of the 
financial year. Working capital remains a challenge as 
more stringent supply chain payment terms are applied 
and as the mix of construction work changes towards 
more infrastructure where contracts are typically of a 
target cost nature, and reimbursed against certification 
rather than pre-funded. 
In Property, the year end net debt position of the 
development business of £72m reflects our strategy to 
increase the investment in our property development 
business to around £100m. The net debt position in 
our housing businesses showed a slight net increase 
to £239m as investment in our growing mixed tenure 
housing business was largely offset by sales revenue 
in our private homes business. 
The Group’s net debt balance at 30 June 2014 included 
£112m (2013: £82m) held in joint contracting agreements, 
overseas bank accounts and other cash arrangements 
which are not readily available to the Group until the 
contracts near completion. The liquid cash position 
is also affected by seasonal, monthly and contract-
specific stage completion and payment patterns. 
Cash performance (£m)
-150
-125
-100
-75
-50
-25
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
200
225
June 2013
net cash
Operating cash 
flow (inc PFI 
disposals)
MG opening 
balance
MG cash 
consideration
Lloyds deferred 
consideration
Net capital and 
investment
H1 working 
capital 
movement
H2 working 
capital 
movement
Tax, interest, 
dividends, 
pensions
Exceptionals June 2014
net debt
104
26
39
37 140
60
31
37
1 48
123
Order books 
We have increased our order books in Construction and 
Services to a combined level of more than £6.2bn (2013: 
£6.0bn including May Gurney £1.7bn), as shown in the table 
below. Hence we entered the new financial year in a strong 
position with more than 90% of Construction and Services 
targeted revenue for 2015 either secure or probable.
At 30 June 
2014 
£bn 
2013
a
 
£bn 
Construction 2.5 2.3
Services 3.7 3.7
Total 6.2 6.0
a
 Re-presented to include £1.7bn acquired with May Gurney.
Dividend policy 
We continue to maintain our progressive dividend policy. 
Taking into account the performance of the Group, the 
level of order books and its strong capital structure, the 
Board has recommended a final dividend of 49.5p, making 
the full year dividend 72.Op, an increase of 6% on the total 
paid in respect of 2013 (68p). This reflects the Board’s 
confidence in the business going forward and is 1.5 times 
covered (2013: 1.5 times
†
) by underlying earnings 
per share. 
49
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Treasury facilities and policies 
As at 30 June 2014 the Group had financing facilities as detailed below:
Facility type Facility amount (£m) Expiry
Revolving credit facility 190 September 2018
Syndicated term loan 50 September 2016
Funding for Lending term loan 30 January 2017
US private placement 63 December 2019/2022
Overdrafts 45
Asset finance 121
Total 499 
Historically, Kier has operated with a low level of balance 
sheet gearing. However, as customers and our supply 
chain have become more conscious of the need to 
manage their own working capital, funding has shifted 
to construction and services company balance sheets. 
Accordingly, we have extended our facilities over the 
medium-term to manage this shift and to provide capacity 
for continuing investment across the Group. 
Facilities were significantly extended at the time of the 
acquisition of May Gurney in July 2013 with the addition 
of a four-year £50m syndicated term loan to service the 
cash cost of the acquisition and £70m additional revolving 
credit facility (RCF), replacing existing May Gurney 
facilities. In February 2014, we extended the maturity of 
our RCFs from 2016 to 2018 on improved terms. These 
changes follow on from the completion last year of £63m 
(US$100m) of US private placements for seven and ten 
year terms, replacing a £30m expired facility, and the 
securing of a £30m four-year loan under the Government’s 
Funding for Lending scheme.
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash and liquid 
investments. The Group, largely through its PFI and Property 
joint ventures, enters into derivatives transactions 
(principally, interest rate swaps) to manage interest rate 
risks arising from its operations and its sources of finance. 
We do not enter into speculative transactions. 
There are minor foreign currency risks arising from our 
operations. The Group has a limited number of overseas 
operations in different currencies. Currency exposure to 
overseas assets is hedged through inter-company 
balances and borrowings, so that assets denominated in 
foreign currencies are matched, as far as possible, by 
liabilities. Where there may be further exposure to foreign 
currency fluctuations, forward exchange contracts are 
completed to buy and sell foreign currency.
Balance sheet 
Total net assets at 30 June 2014 were £310m (2013: 
£158m) and included intangible assets of £324m (2013: 
£30m), of which £209m (2013: £13m) related to goodwill 
and £109m (2013: £13m) related to contract rights. The 
increase in goodwill and intangible assets during the year 
results primarily from the acquisition of May Gurney. 
Testing for impairment of the carrying value of the 
intangible assets at the year-end showed significant 
headroom, as described in more detail in note 12.
Corporate activity 
During the period from July 2013 to August 2014, 
we completed two transactions as follows: 
• In July 2013, we completed the acquisition of May Gurney 
for a consideration of £222m. The majority of the purchase 
price consideration (£184m) was satisfied by the issue of 
14.7m new shares, together with cash consideration of 
approximately £35m (excluding dividend payments of 
£4m to the shareholders of May Gurney). The integration 
is well progressed and we are on track to deliver 
the cost savings as planned. We have completed a 
comprehensive review of the fair value of the assets and 
liabilities including the performance of the environmental 
business, particularly the waste collection contracts for 
the Bristol and Cheshire West & Chester local authorities 
which continue to be challenging. This has required a total 
£73m fair value adjustment of which £57m mainly relates 
to the long duration loss-making environmental contracts.
• In June 2014, we completed the disposal of our small plant 
and tools business for approximately £2m, in line with our 
strategy of withdrawing from peripheral operations. 
Inventories 
At 30 June 2014, the combined value of residential land 
and work in progress was £263m (2013: £249m), an 
increase of £14m. This increase reflects purchases of new 
housing land and further investment in work in progress in 
our mixed tenure housing business, partially offset by unit 
sales during the year. 
At 30 June 2014, our land bank comprised 3,672 plots 
(2013: 4,005). Our focus is to reduce the investment in our 
land and work in progress for future investment in the Group. 
As we have stated previously, the majority of our land was 
purchased before 2008 and therefore we do not anticipate 
profit from land disposals but simply generation of cash. 
Construction contract work in progress increased to 
£92m (2013: £63m), as a result of increased construction 
revenue and other work in progress and raw materials and 
consumables also increased as a result of the acquisition 
of May Gurney.
Financial review continued
50
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Analysis of inventories 
At 30 June 
2014 
£m 
2013 
£m 
Residential land 119 127
Residential work in 
progress 143 122
Property land and work in 
progress 69 73
Construction contract work 
in progress 92 63
Other work in progress 23 10
Raw materials and 
consumables 24 4
Total 470 399
Pensions 
The Group’s principal pension scheme is the Kier Group 
Pension Scheme, which includes both defined benefit 
and defined contribution sections. During the year, 
the Group also participated in three smaller schemes: 
a defined benefit scheme on behalf of its employees in 
Kier Sheffield LLP and two schemes acquired with May 
Gurney which, for reporting purposes, are combined. 
The financial statements reflect the pension scheme 
deficits calculated in accordance with IAS 19. The new 
pensions accounting standard came into force for Kier for 
the June 2014 financial year and the 2013 figures, as 
comparatives, have been restated. The expected return on 
scheme assets and the interest cost on scheme liabilities, 
previously reported in the income statement, have been 
replaced with a net interest cost which is calculated 
by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit 
obligation. The amendment has a corresponding impact 
on actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Statement 
of Comprehensive Income, with no overall change to the 
net retirement benefit liability in the Balance Sheet. 
At 30 June 2014, on an IAS 19 basis, the net deficit of the 
Kier Group Pension Scheme was £50m (2013: £37m). 
The market value of the scheme’s assets was £837m 
(2013: £784m) and the net present value of the liabilities 
was £900m (2013: £832m). The increase in the net 
deficit was a result of changes in the key assumptions, 
particularly the lower than predicted discount rate. Clearly 
these assumptions change as market rates fluctuate.
The triennial valuation of the scheme as at 1 April 2013 
has now been concluded, resulting in an increase in 
additional deficit contributions of about £1m pa. The 
Group is currently consulting with members over the 
closure of the defined benefit section to future accrual. 
The original contract with Sheffield City Council, under 
which liability for the Kier Sheffield LLP scheme rested 
with Kier, finished in March 2014 at which time the 
Group’s participation in the scheme ceased and the 
assets and liabilities were transferred back to Sheffield 
City Council. At 30 June 2014, the May Gurney schemes 
showed a net surplus of £2.6m (at acquisition: £3.0m).
Note 8 to the financial statements includes a sensitivity 
analysis that highlights the effect of changes to the key 
assumptions behind the valuation to the pension schemes. 
A net pension charge of £14.0m (2013 restated: £16.0m) 
has been reported in the income statement in accordance 
with IAS 19.
Going concern 
The chief executive’s strategic review highlights the 
activities of the Group and those factors likely to affect its 
future development, performance and financial position. 
These statements and assumptions have been carefully 
considered by the Board in relation to the ability of the 
Group to operate within its current and foreseeable 
resources, financial and operational.
The Group has significant financial resources, committed 
banking facilities, long-term contracts and long order 
books. For these reasons the directors continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the Group’s financial 
statements. 
Haydn Mursell 
Chief Executive
51
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  Chairman’s introduction
A culture of good governance
The Board believes that its effectiveness, and that of the Group, 
should be supported by a strong governance framework.
Dear shareholders,
The 2014 financial year was another successful one 
for Kier. The Group continues to demonstrate its ability 
to adapt to significant change, having recently integrated 
May Gurney and also undertaken a comprehensive 
business-efficiency programme. 
The Board believes that its effectiveness, and that of 
the Group, should be supported by a strong governance 
framework. The Board is responsible for ensuring 
that governance across the Group is robust, in particular 
so as to manage its future growth.
In this part of the annual report, we set out the measures that 
we have taken to ensure that the Group continues to apply 
high standards of corporate governance. As an introduction, 
I set out a summary of some of the important corporate 
governance issues which the Group has faced during the year.
Leadership and effectiveness
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term 
success of the Group and for establishing a framework 
of prudent and effective controls to enable risk to be 
assessed and managed. We also believe that good 
corporate governance requires a board with an 
appropriate range of skills and experience. 
There have been a number of changes to the Board during 
the year: Paul Sheffield stood down as chief executive, 
Chris Geoghegan retired as a non-executive director and, 
more recently, Kirsty Bashforth was appointed as a 
non-executive director.
I would like to express our thanks to Paul for his long 
service with Kier. He made a significant contribution in 
over 30 years with the Group, most recently overseeing 
the acquisition and integration of May Gurney. However, 
we believe in succession from within Kier and I was 
52
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 therefore very pleased to appoint Haydn Mursell as the 
new chief executive. We are also pleased that Beverley Dew 
will be joining us as the new finance director. Beverley has 
significant experience of working within the construction, 
services and residential sectors and, when he joins us, 
will fit in well with the other executive directors and the 
rest of the Board. We will issue another announcement 
when his starting date has been decided.
I would also like to thank Chris Geoghegan for his 
contribution to the Board – in particular, as the chair 
of the Remuneration Committee and for his support to me 
as the senior independent non-executive director. We were 
delighted to have announced the appointment of Kirsty 
Bashforth as a non-executive director with effect from 
1 September 2014. Kirsty brings a wealth of experience 
from her time at BP plc. Since joining us, Kirsty has been 
participating in a comprehensive induction programme and 
has already demonstrated that she will play a key part in the 
boardroom debate. 
When making these changes, we considered the balance 
of skills and experience required by the Board and the 
need to ensure that we have a diverse board in terms of 
background, experience and gender. Although we do not 
have a target in relation to the number of women on the 
Board, we endorse Lord Davies’ recommendations and 
include diversity as a key consideration when assessing 
its composition.
Accountability
As a board, we understand our responsibility to present 
a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Group’s position and prospects. We also understand the 
need to maintain sound risk management and internal 
control systems. During the course of the year, the 
Risk Management and Audit Committee has assisted 
the Board to discharge its obligations with respect to 
these two requirements. 
Remuneration
This year, there have been a number of changes in reporting 
requirements for the Remuneration Committee to consider. 
You will see that the directors’ remuneration report includes 
both a section outlining the Group’s remuneration policy 
and a section reporting on remuneration during the year 
ended 30 June 2014. The Remuneration Committee has 
reflected shareholders’ views in the remuneration policy, 
ahead of putting it to a shareholder vote at the 2014 
annual general meeting. 
Relations with shareholders
Members of the Board have met a number of our 
institutional investors during the year to understand their 
views on matters of significance to them. As chairman, 
my discussions with shareholders during the course of 
the year on a variety of governance and strategy matters 
have helped to ensure that I can keep the Board informed 
about their issues and concerns. Further details of our 
engagement with shareholders are set out on page 59. 
The annual general meeting provides a valuable 
opportunity for all shareholders to hear more about 
how we have performed during the year and to meet 
the Board in person. I look forward to welcoming 
shareholders at the meeting on 13 November 2014. 
Phil White
Chairman
17 September 2014
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
53
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Phil White CBE (65) 
Chairman 
Appointed chairman of the Group in 
January 2008, having joined as 
non-executive director in July 2006. He 
served as chief executive of National 
Express Group plc from January 1997 
to September 2006. He is a chartered 
accountant and has extensive 
experience within both listed 
and private companies. He is currently 
chairman of Lookers plc and The Unite 
Group plc and a non-executive director 
of Stagecoach Group plc and Vp plc. 
He is chair of the Nomination 
Committee and a member of the  
Remuneration Committee. 
Committee membership
Haydn Mursell (43) 
Chief executive 
Appointed chief executive with 
effect from 1 July 2014. Joined Kier 
in August 2010 as finance director 
designate and took over the role of 
group finance director in November 
2010. He also assumed operational 
responsibility for the Property division 
in June 2013. He was previously 
deputy group finance director at 
Balfour Beatty plc and, prior to that, 
UK finance director at Bovis Lend 
Lease. He is a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants, having 
trained and qualified at KPMG. 
Steve Bowcott (59) 
Chief operating officer 
Re-joined Kier in January 2007 as 
a director within the Construction 
division. He was appointed to the Board 
in July 2010 and was appointed as the 
chief operating officer in June 2013. 
He has operational responsibility for 
the Group’s construction and services 
operations. He has over 35 years’ 
experience in building, civil engineering 
and utilities with experience in both 
the UK and overseas and has led the 
integration of May Gurney and the 
Group’s recent business-efficiency 
programme. 
Board of directors
Richard Bailey (62) 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board with 
effect from October 2010. He is a 
chartered accountant and a partner 
in Rothschild, the global financial 
advisory business, where he has 
spent most of his career. He is 
currently chairman of Rothschild’s 
regional business. He has been 
involved in a range of private and 
public company work with a focus on 
mergers, acquisitions, private equity 
and capital raising. He is the senior 
independent non-executive director, 
the chair of the Risk Management 
and Audit Committee and a 
member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees. 
Committee membership
 
Kirsty Bashforth (44) 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board with effect 
from 1 September 2014. She has 
over 20 years of experience with BP 
plc (‘BP’). Her current role is Group 
Head of Organisational Effectiveness, 
having undertaken a number of other 
roles within BP, including leading a 
process and capability improvement 
programme across its global ‘b2b’ 
marketing businesses, running its 
European petrochemicals marketing, 
supply and logistics business and 
financial engineering and risk 
management roles. She is a member 
of all four Board committees.
Committee membership
 
 Key:
  R i s k M a n a g emen t  
and Audit Committee
  R em u ner a t i o n C o m m i t t e e
 Nomination Committee
  Safety, Health and 
Environment Committee
54
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014  Executive 
 Non-executive
 Richard Bailey: 
 10/2010
 Kirsty Bashforth: 
 9/2014
 Amanda Mellor: 
 12/2011
 Phil White: 
 7/2006
 Nick Winser: 
 3/2009
 
Nick Winser CBE (54) 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board with effect from 
March 2009. He was a member of the 
board of directors of National Grid plc 
from April 2003 to July 2014, during 
which time he undertook a number of 
senior roles within the organisation. 
He is a chartered engineer and a Fellow 
of the Royal Academy of Engineering. 
He is Chairman of the IET’s Power 
Academy, Chairman of CIGRE UK and 
President of the European Network of 
Transmission System Operators for 
Electricity. He is the chair of the Safety, 
Health and Environment Committee 
and a member of the other three 
Board committees. 
  
Committee membership
 
Hugh Raven (42) 
Company secretary
Joined the Group in April 2010, 
having previously worked for top 
City law firms, latterly as a partner 
in Eversheds’ corporate department. 
He has significant experience of a 
wide variety of legal and regulatory 
issues, having advised a number of 
clients in the construction sector. 
He has responsibility for the 
Group’s legal affairs and is the 
company secretary. 
Amanda Mellor (50) 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board with effect 
from December 2011. She is the 
Group Secretary and Head of Corporate 
Governance of Marks and Spencer 
Group plc, having previously been 
Head of Investor Relations at Marks 
and Spencer and Director of Corporate 
Relations at Arcadia Group plc. Prior to 
this, she worked in investment banking 
at James Capel and Robert Fleming. 
She is a member of the Council of 
Leeds University, where she is also a 
visiting professor. She is a chartered 
secretary and a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Secretaries. She is the chair 
of the Remuneration Committee and a 
member of the other three 
Board committees. 
Committee membership
 
Composition of the Board Length of tenure of non-executive director
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
55
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance statement 
Compliance with The UK Corporate Governance Code 
The Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate governance and is committed to managing the Group’s operations 
in accordance with The UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’). A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting 
Council’s website: http://www.frc.org.uk. The September 2012 edition of the Code applied throughout the year; however, the Listing Rules 
require the Company also to comply with the previous edition of the Code, which was issued in June 2010. The Company complied with both 
editions of the Code throughout the year, the Main Principles having been applied as follows:
A. Leadership B. Effectiveness
A1 The Board’s role 
The Board met formally 11 times during 
the year. There is a clear schedule of matters 
reserved for the Board, together with delegated 
authorities throughout the Group.
A2 A clear division of responsibilities  
The roles of the chairman and chief executive  
are clearly defined. Phil White, the chairman, is 
responsible for the leadership and effectiveness 
of the Board. Haydn Mursell, the chief executive, 
is responsible for leading the day-to-day 
management of the Group within the strategy 
set by the Board.
A3 Role of the chairman 
The chairman sets the agendas for meetings, 
manages the meeting timetable (in conjunction 
with the company secretary) and facilitates 
open and constructive dialogue during 
the meetings.
A4 Role of the non-executive directors 
The chairman promotes an open and 
constructive environment in the boardroom  
and actively invites the non-executive directors’ 
views. The non-executive directors provide 
objective, rigorous and constructive challenge 
to management and meet regularly in the 
absence of the executive directors.
B1 The Board’s composition 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for 
regularly reviewing the composition of the 
Board. In making appointments to the Board, 
the Nomination Committee considers the wide 
range of skills, knowledge and experience 
required in order to maintain an effective board.
B2 Board appointments 
The appointment of new directors to the Board 
is led by the Nomination Committee. Further 
details of the activities of the Nomination 
Committee can be found on pages 60 and 61.
B3 Time commitments 
On appointment, directors are notified of the 
time commitment expected from them which,  
in practice, goes beyond that set out in the 
letter of appointment. External directorships, 
which may impact existing time commitments, 
must be agreed with the chairman.
B4 Training and development 
All directors receive an induction on joining the 
Board and, as part of the annual effectiveness 
evaluation, the training and development needs 
of each director are assessed.
B5 Provision of information and support 
The chairman, in conjunction with the company 
secretary, ensures that all Board members 
receive accurate and timely information.
B6 Board and committee  
performance evaluation 
During 2014, the Board and its committees 
undertook an evaluation of their respective 
performances during 2014. Details of the 
evaluation can be found on page 59.
B7 Re-election of the directors 
All directors were subject to shareholder 
election or re-election at the 2013 annual 
general meeting, as will be the case at the 
2014 annual general meeting.
C. Accountability D. Remuneration E.  Relations with shareholders
C1 Financial and business reporting 
The strategic report is set out on pages 1 to 51 
(inclusive) and this provides information about 
the performance of the Group, the business 
model, strategy and the risks and uncertainties 
relating to the Group’s future prospects. 
C2 Risk management and internal 
control systems 
The Board sets out the Group’s risk appetite and 
annually reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management and internal control systems. 
The activities of the Risk Management and Audit 
Committee, which assists the Board with its 
responsibilities in relation to the management 
of risk, are summarised on pages 63 to 66 
(inclusive).
C3 Role and responsibilities of the Risk 
Management and Audit Committee 
The Board has delegated a number of 
responsibilities to the Risk Management and 
Audit Committee, which is responsible for 
overseeing the Group’s financial reporting 
processes, internal control and risk 
management framework and the work 
undertaken by the external auditor. The 
chairman of the Risk Management and 
Audit Committee provides regular updates 
to the Board.
D1 Levels and elements of remuneration 
The Remuneration Committee sets levels of 
remuneration appropriately so as to attract, 
retain and motivate the Board, but also 
structures remuneration so as to link it to both 
corporate and individual performance, thereby 
aligning management’s interests with those 
of shareholders.
D2 Development of remuneration policy 
and packages 
Details of the work of the Remuneration 
Committee and the approach to setting the 
remuneration policy can be found in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 85 
(inclusive).
E1 Shareholder engagement and dialogue 
The Board takes an active role in engaging with 
shareholders. The Board particularly values 
opportunities to meet with shareholders and 
the chairman ensures that the Board is kept 
informed of shareholder views.
E2 Constructive use of the annual 
general meeting 
The annual general meeting provides the 
Board with an important opportunity to meet 
with shareholders, who are invited to meet 
the Board following the formal business 
of the meeting.
56
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Board of directors 
The composition of the Board and its committees during 
the year is set out in a table on page 58. The Board 
currently comprises the chairman, four other non-
executive directors and two executive directors. The new 
finance director, Beverley Dew, will increase the number 
of executive directors to three. 
During the course of the year, the following changes to 
the Board took place: 
• On 31 January 2014, it was announced that Chris 
Geoghegan would retire as a non-executive director 
from the Board with effect from 21 February 2014 and 
that, as a result, Richard Bailey would assume the role 
of senior independent non-executive director, Amanda 
Mellor would take over as chair of the Remuneration 
Committee and Phil White would take over as chair of 
the Nomination Committee; 
• On 18 February 2014, it was announced that Paul 
Sheffield would retire from the Board as chief executive 
with effect from 30 June 2014 and that Haydn Mursell 
would become the chief executive with effect from that 
date; and
• On 27 June 2014, it was announced that Kirsty Bashforth 
would become a non-executive director of the Company 
with effect from 1 September 2014.
Following the announcement of Paul Sheffield’s retirement 
from the Board, it was agreed that, as part of the handover 
of duties, Haydn Mursell would begin to assume a number 
of the chief executive’s responsibilities prior to becoming 
chief executive. While the Company identified a new 
finance director, Dave Benson (the group financial 
controller) acted as the interim finance director and 
attended all Board meetings since (and including) 
April 2014. 
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, each of 
the current directors will offer himself/herself for re-election 
at the annual general meeting in November 2014. Following 
the performance evaluations of each of the non-executive 
directors seeking re-election, it is confirmed that the 
performance of each of these individuals continues to 
be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role. 
As it is the first annual general meeting since her 
appointment, a resolution will be proposed to elect 
Kirsty Bashforth as a director. Beverley Dew will not have 
joined the Group by the date of the annual general meeting 
in November 2014. However, a resolution to elect him  
as a director will be proposed at the 2015 annual  
general meeting.
All directors may serve on a number of other boards, provided 
that they can demonstrate that any such appointment will not 
interfere with their time commitment to the Company and that 
they obtain the agreement of the chairman to the appointment 
before acceptance. The major commitments of the executive 
and non-executive directors are outlined in their biographies 
on pages 54 and 55. The Nomination Committee remains 
satisfied that all non-executive directors have sufficient time 
to meet their commitments to the Company and was also 
satisfied that, during the year, the chairman’s other 
commitments did not interfere with the day-to-day 
performance of his duties to the Company. 
Chairman – Phil White
• Is responsible for the Board’s effectiveness
• Sets the agenda for Board meetings, ensuring that the directors receive 
accurate, timely and clear information
• Facilitates the effective contribution of the non-executive directors
• Is responsible for effective communication with shareholders
• Ensures that the directors continually update their skills and knowledge, 
and familiarity with the Group, in order to fulfil their roles.
Chief executive – Haydn Mursell
• Is responsible for the operational management of the Group
• Is accountable to the Board for the implementation of the 
Group’s strategy
• Meets regularly with other members of senior management, focusing 
on a variety of matters, including strategy, significant operational issues, 
succession planning and other material issues facing the Group.
Senior independent non-executive director – Richard Bailey
• Acts as chairman of the Board if the chairman is conflicted
• Acts as a conduit to the Board for the communication of shareholder 
concerns if other channels of communication are not appropriate
• Ensures that the chairman is provided with effective feedback on 
his performance.
Roles 
Summaries of the roles of the chairman, the chief executive and the senior 
independent non-executive director are as follows: 
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
57
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance statement 
continued
Board meetings
Details of the number of meetings of the Board and 
its committees held during the year, and attendance 
of directors at those meetings, are set out below. Outside 
the formal schedule of meetings, the non-executive 
directors met without the executive directors during 
the year. Meetings are normally held in Tempsford Hall, 
London and, when appropriate, at different regional 
locations and sites.
The meeting agenda for Board meetings focused on key 
priorities for the Group, including:
• The Group’s strategy and budgets; 
•  The Group’s annual and interim financial statements 
(taking into account the views of the Risk Management 
and Audit Committee); 
• The efficiency of the Group’s operating structure and 
cost base; 
• The implications of prevailing economic conditions 
and the appropriate strategy relating to them; 
• Potential acquisitions and disposals; 
•  The integration of May Gurney; 
• Material operational issues and opportunities; 
• Health and safety issues; 
• The Group’s pension schemes; 
• Material human resources issues affecting the Group, 
including succession planning and diversity both 
at Board level and throughout the Group; and 
•  The Group’s strategy with respect to disputes or 
proceedings (including the issues relating to the 
Castlepoint shopping centre car park, Bournemouth) 
or issues otherwise potentially adversely affecting the 
Group’s reputation.
Senior executives are regularly invited to attend meetings 
for specific items. 
Responsibility and delegation
The duties of, and those decisions which can only be made 
by, the Board are clearly defined in the schedule of 
matters reserved for the Board. The matters requiring 
Board approval include, amongst others:
• The Group’s strategic plans;
• Mergers, acquisitions and disposals of a material size 
and nature;
• Material changes to the Group’s structure and capital;
• The payment of dividends; and 
•  The approval of material Group policies.
Board committees
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its 
committees. The terms of reference for each committee are 
available on the Company’s website: http://www.kier.co.uk.  
The current membership of each Board committee is as follows:
Director
Risk
 Management 
and Audit Remuneration Nomination
Safety, 
Health and
 Environment
Richard Bailey –
Kirsty Bashforth
Amanda Mellor 
Phil White – –
Nick Winser
 Denotes the chair of the relevant committee.
Board and committee meeting attendance
Board and committee attendance during the year was as follows:
Board 
(11)
Risk
 Management
 and Audit 
(4)
Remuneration
 (3)
Nomination 
(3)
Safety,
Health and
 Environment 
(4)
Richard Bailey 11 4 3 3 –
Steve Bowcott 11 – – – –
Chris Geoghegan
1
5 2 1 – –
Amanda Mellor 11 4 3 3 4
Haydn Mursell 11 – – – –
Paul Sheffield
2
7 – – – –
Phil White 11 – 3 3 –
Nick Winser 11 4 3 3 4
1
 Retired from the Board with effect from 21 February 2014. He attended all Board meetings and those of the committees 
of which he was a member up to (and including) the December 2013 meetings.
2
 Retired from the Board with effect from 30 June 2014. He attended all Board meetings up to (and including) the 
March 2014 meeting.
58
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The principal activities of each of these committees during 
the year are set out in their respective reports on pages 
60 to 85 (inclusive). Executive directors also attend 
meetings of the committees when required by the chair 
of the relevant committee to do so. 
Professional advice and Board support
All directors have access to the advice and services of the 
company secretary and the directors are also able to seek 
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the 
Company’s expense. Training is available for new directors 
and subsequently as is considered necessary. 
Induction
On appointment, each director takes part in an induction 
programme, during which (s)he:
• Receives relevant information relating to the Group;
• Meets members of senior management below Board level;
• Meets representatives of the Company’s key advisers;
• Receives information about the role of the Board and 
matters reserved for its terms of reference and 
membership of Board committees and the powers 
delegated to these committees;
• Is advised of the legal and other duties and obligations 
of a director of a listed company; and
• Visits key sites and locations within the Group. 
Kirsty Bashforth was appointed to the Board with effect 
from 1 September 2014. Kirsty’s induction, which was 
organised by the company secretary, has included each 
of the elements set out above.
Board performance evaluation 
During the year, an external evaluation of the Board’s 
performance, the performance of its individual directors 
and that of its committees was carried out by Independent 
Board Evaluation (which has no other connection with 
the Company). 
The aim of the evaluation was to obtain the views of Board 
members that would:
• Provide an insight into the Board’s effectiveness;
• Highlight actions required to improve its performance; 
and
• Establish a benchmark for measuring future progress.
The review process comprised:
• Attendance at a Board meeting and meetings of each 
of the Board committees;
• Formal, structured meetings with all members of the 
Board and the company secretary;
• Meetings with members of senior management below 
the Board; and
• Meetings with key advisers to the Board.
The areas covered by the evaluation included:
• Board culture;
• Time management;
• Composition of the Board;
• Processes and support;
• Governance and compliance;
• Risk management;
• Succession planning;
• Board focus, including priorities; and
• The Board’s role in the development of the 
Group’s strategy.
 
The evaluation process concluded that the Board had 
experienced a challenging year, having taken some 
significant decisions and, at the same time, changed its 
composition. Overall, the Board members felt that the 
Board operated effectively in terms of its culture and 
decision-making. However, the feedback also identified 
opportunities for the Board to improve its effectiveness 
and, during the year ending 30 June 2015, the Board 
plans to:
• Focus on succession planning for the senior 
management team;
• Continue to ensure that sufficient time is set aside 
to focus on strategy;
• Enhance the quality of the information provided to 
the Board;
• Keep the schedule of Board and committee meetings 
under review to ensure that the Board continues to 
develop its knowledge of the business; and 
• Strengthen the resources available to support the Board.
Relations with shareholders 
The Company regularly communicates to and meets 
investors, investment analysts and brokers, delivering 
detailed presentations when it releases its annual 
and interim results and its interim management 
statements. These assist the Board to understand 
the views of major shareholders about the Group’s 
performance and its strategic objectives. Independent 
feedback is also provided to the Board by analysts and 
institutional shareholders. 
The Board invites investors, brokers and analysts to visit 
the Group’s projects to demonstrate the scope and scale 
of its activities and to more formal ‘investor days’. These 
site visits also include a series of presentations by 
members of the Board and members of senior 
management about the Group’s operations. 
The Board uses the annual general meeting as an 
opportunity to communicate directly with shareholders. 
The chairman of the Board also meets regularly with 
individual shareholders to obtain their views on a variety 
of matters, as does the chair of the Remuneration 
Committee in relation to remuneration matters. 
The Group regularly engages with a range of stakeholders 
(including shareholders) in relation to its corporate 
responsibility (CR) programme. During the year, it also 
liaised with a number of shareholders in relation 
to environmental, social and governance issues, 
in particular obtaining their views on its CR strategy and 
reporting, to ensure that the Group’s priorities are aligned 
with those of its key stakeholders. Further information 
can be found on pages 28 to 31 (inclusive).
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
59
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dear shareholders,
The principal purpose of the Nomination Committee (‘the 
Committee’) is to lead the process for the appointment 
of new directors to the Board (whether executive or 
non-executive), ensuring that the Board has an appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge. 
In particular, the Committee is responsible for Board 
succession in order to ensure that the composition 
of the Board is appropriate to manage future growth. 
The Committee oversaw a number of changes to the 
Board during 2014 and its role in relation to each 
of these changes is set out below. The appointments 
of both Haydn Mursell as chief executive and Kirsty 
Bashforth as a non-executive director illustrate the 
Board’s commitment to planning succession and diversity.
One of the key areas of focus for the financial year ending 
30 June 2015 will be to continue to work with the executive 
management on succession planning, ensuring that the 
future leaders of the business are identified and developed.
Composition
The members of the Committee are:
• Phil White (chair)
• Richard Bailey
• Kirsty Bashforth
• Amanda Mellor
• Nick Winser
At the invitation of the Committee, any other director 
or other person may attend meetings of the Committee.  
The secretary of the Committee is the company secretary. 
The Committee met formally three times in 2014.
Role
The role of the Committee includes:
• Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition 
(including the skills, knowledge, experience and 
diversity) of the Board and making recommendations 
to the Board with regard to any changes;
• Identifying, reviewing and recommending candidates 
to the Board; and
• Considering succession planning for the Board and 
other senior executives, taking into account the challenges 
and opportunities facing the Group and the skills and 
expertise required by the Board in the future.
Chief executive succession
The major decision taken by the Committee during the 
year related to the chief executive’s succession.
The Committee assessed the skills, competencies and 
qualities required for the position and JCA Group, which is 
a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive 
Search Firms, was engaged to undertake the search to 
identify potential candidates. JCA Group has no other 
connection with the Group. The Committee assessed 
and compared the merits of the candidates, before 
recommending the appointment of Haydn Mursell to the 
Board. When making its recommendation, the Committee 
noted that Haydn was well-regarded by key stakeholders 
(in particular, shareholders and employees) and had 
gained significant experience of the Group’s operations 
since joining in 2010, having assumed operational 
responsibility for the property division in June 2013.
Finance director
The Committee also engaged JCA Group to identify a 
finance director following Haydn’s appointment as chief 
executive. Having interviewed and assessed a number 
of internal and external candidates, the Committee 
recommended to the Board that Beverley Dew should be 
appointed to the role. The Committee was impressed, in 
particular, with Beverley’s recent experience of operating 
within the construction, services and residential sectors. 
The Committee was of the opinion that he would work well 
with the other members of the Board and would provide 
appropriate challenge to the other executive directors and 
support to the Board on financial and other matters 
affecting the Group. 
Changes to non-executive roles
Following the retirement of Chris Geoghegan from the 
Board in February 2014, the Committee recommended 
that the Board should make the following changes to the 
roles of the non-executive directors:
• Richard Bailey became the senior independent 
non-executive director, in addition to his existing role as 
the chair of the Risk Management and Audit Committee;
• Amanda Mellor became the chair of the Remuneration 
Committee; and
• I took on the role of chair of the Nomination Committee. 
The Committee was of the view that each of these 
individuals had recent and relevant experience for their 
new roles.
Nomination Committee report 
Phil White — Committee Chair
60
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Appointment of non-executive director
Following Chris Geoghegan’s retirement from the Board, 
the Committee considered the overall composition of the 
Board. The Committee agreed that the Board needed 
to appoint a non-executive director so as to ensure an 
appropriate balance between the number of executive and 
non-executive directors, in terms of their respective skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge.
When considering the required skills and experience of 
the new non-executive director, the Committee focused 
on the recent significant change in the business 
and decided to appoint an individual with experience 
in organisational design. As Head of Organisational 
Effectiveness at BP plc, Kirsty Bashforth has recent and 
relevant experience in this area and is highly regarded 
within the organisation, having worked closely with 
members of BP’s senior management over a number 
of years in a variety of different roles. A brief biography 
setting out Kirsty’s experience is set out on page 54. 
Having identified its requirements, and on the basis of its 
own, internal process (which included taking references 
from senior and experienced sources), the Committee 
did not consider it necessary to use an external search 
consultancy or advertising in relation to the appointment.
The Committee welcomes the introduction of provisions 
in the Code which require the consideration of diversity 
at board level. However, the Committee does not consider 
that the setting of targets is necessarily in the best 
interests of the Group and, instead, prefers to consider all 
aspects of diversity (including gender) when assessing the 
composition of the Board and any future appointments. 
The range of skills and experience which the last two 
non-executive directors to have been appointed, Kirsty 
Bashforth and Amanda Mellor, bring to the Board clearly 
demonstrate the Committee’s commitment to diversity. 
Priorities for 2015
The priorities for the Committee during 2015 will include:
• Ensuring that the results of the 2014 Board 
performance evaluation process are implemented 
satisfactorily;
• Overseeing the completion of Kirsty Bashforth’s 
induction;
• Ensuring that, upon arrival, Beverley Dew receives 
an appropriate induction; and
• Senior management succession planning to establish 
the internal pipeline for potential Board members, 
ensuring that the future leaders of the Group 
are identified.
The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed 
on the Company’s website: http://www.kier.co.uk.
Phil White
Chair of the Nomination Committee
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
61
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Safety, Health and Environment Committee report 
Dear shareholders,
The health and safety of all those who visit and work 
on the Group’s sites, together with the protection of the 
environment, have been and will remain key priorities 
for Kier. It is therefore important that the Group has a 
well-established and robust governance structure, led 
by the Safety, Health and Environment Committee 
(‘the Committee’), to ensure that safety, health and 
environmental (‘SHE’) matters are appropriately 
managed by the Group. 
During the year, the Committee has continued to focus 
on assisting management to drive the continuous 
improvement of SHE practices throughout the Group. 
At a strategic level, the principal focus has been on 
integrating May Gurney’s culture, policies and procedures 
with respect to SHE matters. Further details on the 
Committee’s activities during the year are set out below. 
Composition
The members of the Committee are:
• Nick Winser (chair)
• Kirsty Bashforth
• Amanda Mellor
The executive directors and the health and safety director 
are invited, and expected, to attend meetings, unless 
they are notified to the contrary. The secretary of the 
Committee is the company secretary. The Committee 
met formally four times in 2014.
Role
The role of the Committee includes:
• Assisting the Board to review the Group’s strategy 
with respect to SHE matters;
• Encouraging management commitment and 
accountability with respect to managing the Group’s 
SHE risks;
• Reviewing and, as necessary, approving material 
Group-wide SHE initiatives, policies and procedures;
• Receiving reports on any major health and safety or 
environmental incidents; and
• Reviewing the Group’s exposure to SHE risks and 
monitoring the Group’s performance against SHE targets.
Principal activities in 2014
Kier’s accident incidence rate (‘AIR’) decreased by 26% 
since 30 June 2013 and May Gurney’s AIR also decreased 
significantly, by 43%, since the acquisition of the business 
in July 2013. However, despite the overall improvement in 
the Group’s AIR, two fatalities occurred on sites operated 
by Kier (in joint venture), in Hong Kong and at the Holborn 
site of the Crossrail project. The Committee’s focus was to 
ensure that the investigations relating to the incidents 
were appropriately and thoroughly conducted, the 
business co-operated with all key stakeholders (including 
relatives, joint venture partners, clients and regulatory 
bodies), remedial actions were taken promptly and that 
the learning points from the incidents were appropriately 
communicated across the Group and implemented in 
its safety procedures.
During the year, other areas of focus for the Committee 
included:
• Ensuring the effective integration of May Gurney’s SHE 
policies and procedures within those previously used 
by Kier to ensure a consistency of approach across 
the Group;
• Ensuring that management’s responses to regulatory 
investigations by the Health and Safety Executive and the 
Environment Agency into incidents on the Group’s sites 
were appropriate;
• Ensuring that management closed-out any remedial 
actions after the reporting of ‘high potential’ incidents; 
and
• Assisting management to continue to promote the 
benefits of, and encourage, the reporting of ‘high 
potential’ incidents and to ensure the communication of 
the learning points from such incidents across the Group. 
Priorities for 2015 
The priorities for the Committee in 2015 will include:
• Providing oversight of, and support to management in 
relation to, the launch of a re-branded set of Group-wide 
SHE policies and procedures;
• Working with management to ensure an appropriate 
level of senior leadership visibility on sites;
• Challenging management to continue to reduce the 
Group’s AIR; and
• Assisting management in the appointment of a new 
Group SHE director, following the departure of the 
previous director in August 2014.
The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed 
on the Company’s website: http://www.kier.co.uk.
Nick Winser
Chair of the Safety, Health and 
Environment Committee
Nick Winser — Committee Chair
62
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk Management and Audit Committee report
Dear shareholders,
The Risk Management and Audit Committee (‘the 
Committee’) supports the Board in maintaining sound 
risk management and internal control procedures. The 
Committee’s responsibility is to ensure that appropriate 
corporate reporting, risk management and internal control 
systems are applied throughout the Group.
The Committee follows a defined programme of work and 
review to coincide with key events in the reporting year. 
The Committee reports formally and regularly to the Board 
on its work.
During the year, the Committee continued to: examine closely 
the integrity of the Group’s financial statements to ensure 
that they were prepared to the highest standards, provide 
the Board with periodic reviews of the effectiveness of the 
Group’s risk management and internal control systems, 
scrutinise the work of the internal auditor, having previously 
approved the programme of audit work, and supervise the 
resolution of key issues arising from this work.
Composition
The members of the Committee are:
• Richard Bailey (chair)
• Kirsty Bashforth
• Amanda Mellor
• Nick Winser
Richard Bailey, a chartered accountant and chairman of 
Rothschild’s regional business, is considered by the Board 
to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The finance director and the director responsible for internal 
audit also attend meetings. The chair of the Board is 
invited to attend the Committee meetings. The 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) internal audit 
representative and the executive directors also attend when 
it is considered necessary or relevant for them to do so. 
The external audit partner from KPMG attended all of the 
meetings during the year and often met the chair of the 
Committee without management being present.
The secretary of the Committee is the company secretary. 
The Committee met formally four times in 2014.
Role
The role of the Committee includes:
• Examining the integrity of the Group’s financial 
statements and challenging significant financial 
reporting judgements and decisions;
• Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal control and risk management systems;
• Reviewing the adequacy of the Group’s arrangements 
for its employees and contractors to raise concerns, 
in confidence, about possible misdemeanours – 
i.e. ‘whistle-blowing’;
Principal activities in 2014
The following matters were considered during the 
Committee meetings which took place during the year: 
Sept Dec Feb June
Financial reporting 
Full-year results and 
announcements X 
Half-year results and 
announcements X
Going concern X X 
Tax report X X 
External audit 
General update X X X
Management 
representation 
letter X 
Evaluation of 
external audit X 
Recommendation 
of re-appointment X 
Non-audit fees X X
External audit plan X X
Internal audit 
General update X X X X
Evaluation of 
internal audit X
Internal audit plan X
Other 
Risk management 
(including 
‘whistle-blowing’) X X
Compliance 
with corporate 
governance 
requirements 
(including ‘fair, 
balanced, 
understandable’ 
requirement) X X X
Richard Bailey — Committee Chair
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
63
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk Management and Audit Committee report  
continued
• Reviewing the Group’s procedures for detecting fraud;
• Appraising the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit function, setting the topics to be covered each 
year and reviewing the results of the work; and
• Testing the independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor (in accordance with the requirements 
of the Code).
Risk management and internal controls 
The nature of the Group’s work and the business 
environment in which it operates are inherently risky. 
However, the Committee recognises that the success of the 
Group’s business strategy is closely related to its ability to 
identify and manage risk effectively. Risk is managed at all 
levels throughout the Group by identifying key risks and 
assessing the effectiveness of controls to mitigate them.
The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of 
the Group’s internal controls and risk management 
procedures. These serve to mitigate, not eliminate, risk. 
This year, management conducted a comprehensive 
review of risk throughout the Group to identify, so far as 
practicable, all significant risks. Based on that work, a new 
risk register has been developed, which will inform future 
control procedures. No major risks were identified that 
were not already covered by the Group’s control 
framework. Further, no material risk management or 
internal control failures have been identified in the 
application of the existing procedures that require 
disclosure in this report. 
The Committee also reviewed the adequacy and security 
of the Group’s ‘whistle-blowing’ arrangements, which 
exist to enable employees and contractors to raise 
confidentially any concerns over possible misdemeanour. 
The Committee considers the current arrangements to 
be appropriate, but will review them annually.
For further information, please see the information in the 
paragraphs entitled ‘How the Group manages risk and 
assurance’ and ‘Risk management process’.
Internal audit 
The Committee tests and reviews continually the 
effectiveness of the internal audit function, recognising 
its importance to the management of risk as well as 
organisational efficiency. It does so by examining the 
audit work conducted by PwC, reviewing the response 
of management to issues which are identified and 
overseeing the implementation of any changes 
deemed necessary. 
The Committee considers that the internal audit function 
fulfilled its objectives for the year. Its findings were used 
by the Committee and PwC in forming the internal audit 
plan for the 2015 financial year. 
External audit 
The Board and the Committee consider the objectivity and 
effectiveness of the Group’s auditor to be of paramount 
importance. At the beginning of the year, the Committee 
reviewed and challenged the external audit plan to ensure 
that KPMG, having identified potential areas of concern, 
significant risks and control procedures, would employ 
effective audit procedures to examine them. Having reviewed 
KPMG’s performance following the implementation of these 
procedures, the Committee concluded that the external 
auditor had operated effectively. 
The independence of the Group’s external auditor is key. 
KPMG has audited the Group’s financial statements for over 
10 years and the Committee therefore deemed it 
appropriate to ask four other firms to tender for the work. 
Having conducted a comprehensive tender process, the 
Board agreed that, at the November annual general 
meeting, it would propose the appointment of PwC as 
the external auditor for the 2015 financial year. Upon 
appointment, PwC will cease to provide internal audit 
services to the Group.
Fees relating to the provision of non-audit services by the 
external auditor, other than routine taxation advice, must 
be referred to and agreed by the Committee, so that it 
can be satisfied that the external auditor’s objectivity and 
independence have not been compromised, notwithstanding 
the provision of non-audit services in the year.
The fees paid to KPMG during the year in respect of 
non-audit services were £855,000 (2013: £1,177,000), 
of which £678,000 related to advice in connection with 
the Group’s business-efficiency programme, £112,000 to 
tax advice (and providing tax-related software licences), 
£45,000 to the auditing of the corporate responsibility 
annual report, and £20,000 to assistance with respect 
to the audit tender process. The audit fees for the year 
were £843,000. The total fees for non-audit services 
represented approximately 101% of the audit fees paid 
for the year (2013: 162%). All figures exclude VAT.
Before engaging KPMG in relation to the Group’s business-
efficiency programme, the Board asked three firms of an 
appropriate size with recent and relevant experience to 
tender for the work. In light of the size and complexity of 
the Group’s business and operations, and KPMG’s recent 
and relevant experience having conducted similar 
exercises elsewhere in the construction sector, the Board 
decided that KPMG was the best equipped to conduct the 
exercise. Before the work began, and at the Board’s 
request, KPMG established an appropriate ethical division 
between its audit team and the consultancy team which 
undertook the work.
As part of the audit process for the year ended 30 June 
2014, KPMG confirmed that, with respect to this period, 
it was independent within the meaning of applicable 
regulatory and professional requirements. Taking this into 
account, and having considered the steps taken by KPMG 
to preserve its independence, the Committee concluded 
that the external auditor’s independence was not 
compromised, notwithstanding the level of non-audit fees.
Financial statements
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the suitability of 
the Group’s accounting policies and the appropriateness of 
management’s estimates and judgements in preparing the 
financial statements. As part of its review of the Group’s 
financial statements, the Committee considered the areas 
set out below under ‘Significant accounting judgements’. 
In reaching its decision on these judgements, the 
Committee considered the accuracy of historical forecasts 
and external audit reports on the positions taken by 
management and discussed these reports with the external 
auditor and management. On the basis of these 
discussions, and drawing on its own recent and relevant 
financial experience, the Committee concluded that 
management’s judgement had been reasonable.
Significant accounting judgements
During the year, the Committee reviewed the following 
significant issues:
• The distinction between underlying and non-underlying 
items and their presentation, including costs relating 
to the acquisition of May Gurney and business 
64
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 restructuring and transformation costs following this 
acquisition. See note 4 to the consolidated financial 
statements; 
• The assumptions and judgements made by 
management in relation to the accounting for significant 
contracts, such as the Castlepoint shopping centre 
car park;
• The extent to which the preparation of the financial 
statements comply with Group revenue and profit 
recognition policies and, in particular, the measurement 
of profits derived from long-term contracts at their various 
stages of completion, as well as the level of liabilities in 
respect of completed contracts. See note 1(a) to the 
consolidated financial statements under ‘Accounting 
estimates and judgements’;
• The assumptions underlying the calculation of defined 
benefit pension liabilities. See note 8 to the 
consolidated financial statements;
• The work undertaken by management to support the 
going concern statement, taking into account funding 
available to the Group (£315m and US$28m committed 
borrowing facilities) and the Group’s compliance with the 
financial covenants contained in its principal facility 
agreements;
• The assumptions and judgements underlying the 
valuation of property land and work in progress. 
See note 1(b) to the consolidated financial statements 
under ‘Accounting estimates and judgements’; 
• The fair value valuation of intangible assets, provisions 
and liabilities in respect of the May Gurney acquisition. 
See note 1(c) (under ‘Accounting estimates and 
judgements’) and note 30(b) to the consolidated financial 
statements; and
• The recoverability of goodwill in respect of the May 
Gurney acquisition. See note 1(g) (under ‘Accounting 
estimates and judgements’) and note 12 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board sought advice from the Committee that the 
information presented in this annual report, when taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
contains the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
The steps taken by the Committee, or on its behalf, 
to provide this advice to the Board included:
• Setting up a committee of senior individuals within the 
Group to draft the annual report, with each of these 
individuals having responsibility for the production of 
certain sections of the document;
• Holding regular meetings of this committee to discuss 
and agree significant disclosure items;
• Each of the committee members retaining copies of 
supporting materials and confirming that, in their 
opinion, the sections drafted by them were ‘fair, 
balanced and understandable’;
• Arranging for KPMG and Futurevalue (a corporate 
reporting consultancy) to review the annual report in 
light of the requirement and for Kepler Associates, the 
Company’s remuneration consultants, to review the 
directors’ remuneration report; 
• Circulating drafts of the annual report to the Committee 
and the Board to ensure that the document reflected 
the directors’ views of the material issues facing the 
Group; and
• Discussing material disclosure items at a meeting of 
the Committee.
How the Group manages risk and assurance
The Board is responsible for the Group’s systems of risk 
management and internal control. It is also responsible for 
the Group risk management and assurance standard 
which sets out the mechanisms of control and the 
reporting structure. Key risks are regularly examined and 
the action plans to mitigate the risks reviewed.
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility 
for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of 
internal control, including those established to identify, 
assess, manage and monitor risk and to provide assurance. 
The risks and the controls designed to mitigate them are 
continuously monitored and a report of the key risks and an 
assessment of these controls is reviewed by the Committee 
twice a year. The last report was prepared in March 2014 
and reviewed at the June 2014 Committee meeting.
Key actions which the Group has taken to mitigate 
risk include:
• The establishment of the Risk Review Committee which 
reviews risks arising during tenders for new contracts;
• The establishment of the Investment Committee to 
review risks relating to investment decisions taken 
by the Group;
• Issuing the Group’s standing orders which set out 
delegated authorities within which the Group operates. 
These are supplemented by standing orders which 
apply at divisional and business unit levels; and
• Setting up a number of Group-wide committees 
to ensure that key risks are managed appropriately. 
These include the Group’s Safety, Health and 
Environment Committee and committees which focus 
on the management of IT risks relating to the Group.
Roles and responsibilities
A summary of the roles and responsibilities of the Board, its committees and management with respect to risk 
management is set out below:
 Board/Committee etc. Responsibilities Activities
Board
• Responsible for the Group’s system of risk 
management and internal control
• Determines the Group’s appetite for risk in 
achieving its strategic objectives
• Issues and reviews the Group risk 
management and assurance standards
• Reviews the Group’s key risks and how they 
are mitigated
Risk Management 
and Audit 
Committee
• Regularly reviews the effectiveness of 
Group internal controls, including systems 
to identify, assess, manage and monitor 
risks
• Receives regular reports on internal and 
external audit and other assurance activity
• Annually assesses the effectiveness of risk 
management and internal controls
Risk Review 
Committee
• Reviews risks identified during tenders • Reviews proposals to mitigate risks which 
have been identified
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
65
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk Management and Audit Committee report  
continued
 Board/Committee etc. Responsibilities Activities
Investment 
Committee
• Reviews and approves investment decisions 
with the aim of optimising the allocation of 
available capital
• Reviews and approves investment/
divestment proposals
Executive 
management 
team
• Strategic leadership
• Responsible for ensuring the Group’s risk 
management policy is implemented and 
embedded
• Ensures appropriate actions are taken to 
manage key risks
• Strategic and annual planning process
• Reviews risk management processes and 
assurance activity
• Monthly/quarterly finance and performance 
reviews
Divisional 
management
•  Responsible for risk management and 
internal controls within their division
• Ensures that business units’ responsibilities 
are discharged
• Reviews the division’s key risks and 
mitigations
• Reviews results of assurance activity
• Escalates key risks to the executive 
management team and the Board
Business unit 
management
• Maintains an effective system of risk 
management and internal control within 
their business unit and projects
•  Maintains and regularly reviews project and 
business risk registers, including the 
effectiveness of mitigations
The Group has clear policies and procedures (for example, those contained in the Group Finance Manual) to ensure 
conformity, reliability and accuracy in financial reporting, including the process for preparing consolidated accounts.
Risk management process
The Group’s risk management and assurance process identifies and addresses the key risks in the business, including 
those identified as potentially affecting the delivery of the Group’s strategy. Significant risks are reviewed annually by 
the Board and the executive management team to identify any new risks which have arisen as a result of changes within 
the Group or the markets within which it operates. On a quarterly basis, the senior management team of each operating 
business reviews its risk registers and analyses the likelihood of each risk occurring and its potential impact on the 
business to estimate the gross risk. 
After developing and assessing processes designed to mitigate the gross risk, the business assesses the likelihood 
and impact of each risk to estimate the net risk. Where the net risk is deemed to be too large or existing mitigations are 
recognised as inadequate, remedial action plans are agreed and implemented. These risk registers are consolidated 
quarterly to provide a view of the principal risks affecting the Group. The key assurance activities carried out across 
the Group (for example, internal audit review) are determined after the risk consolidation process has been completed. 
The Committee oversees the risk management process, from identification through to assurance, and reviews it every 
six months. The process is also reviewed by the executive management team every three months.
A summary of the Group’s risk management process is set out below:
Key risks
Net 
Risk
Key risks
Key risks
Assurance 
activity
How do we 
know our 
mitigations  
are working?
Key 
mitigations
Key 
mitigations
Gross
Risk
What risks can 
prevent us 
achieving 
our goals?
How do we 
mitigate 
those risks?
Group 
strategy
What are our 
goals?
The Committee concluded that the Group maintained sound risk management and internal control systems throughout 
the year ended 30 June 2014.
The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the Company’s website: http://www.kier.co.uk.
Richard Bailey
Chair of the Risk Management and Audit Committee
66
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report
Dear shareholders,
I am pleased to present the directors’ remuneration report 
for 2014. This report is divided into two sections, the 
policy report and the annual report on remuneration, 
and, in accordance with the new regulations relating to the 
reporting of executive remuneration, shareholders will be 
asked to vote separately on these reports at our annual 
general meeting in November 2014.
The remuneration framework at Kier is designed to provide 
a clear link between executive remuneration and the 
Group’s performance and the delivery of its strategy, while 
balancing the interests of shareholders, management and 
other stakeholders.
The Remuneration Committee consulted with shareholders 
and shareholder representative bodies on the remuneration 
policy for 2014 and its implementation and was grateful for 
their constructive engagement throughout this process. 
The Committee has endeavoured to reflect, and balance, 
the range of feedback received in both the remuneration 
policy and its application for the 2015 financial year.
Strategic alignment of remuneration policy
The Group’s strategy is to generate sustainable growth in 
its chosen markets and to deliver increasing levels of 
profit for its shareholders, together with robust and 
reliable cash flows. The Committee’s approach to 
executive remuneration seeks to motivate and reward 
delivery of this strategy and year-on-year performance. 
The Kier executive remuneration framework comprises 
base salary, benefits, cash and shares awarded under an 
annual bonus scheme and shares awarded under a 
long-term incentive plan (‘the LTIP’). Incentive schemes are 
performance-related and are assessed against a range 
of financial and operational targets, measured over the 
short, medium and long term. Profit and cash are the 
two key measures of financial performance for the annual 
bonus. Incentive schemes are subject to a three-year 
deferral or performance period in order to encourage 
retention and to align the interests of directors with those 
of shareholders. Executive directors are also encouraged 
to accumulate a shareholding of at least two years’ base 
salary over a period of up to five years – please see pages 
72 and 81 for further details.
Key remuneration issues during the year
• With effect from 1 July 2014, the average salary 
increase across the Group was 5%, reflecting the high 
level of salary inflation across the market after several 
difficult years;
• Following the acquisition of May Gurney and a 
restructuring of the Board in June 2013, Ian Lawson left 
Kier in September 2013. Details of Ian’s termination 
arrangements are set out on page 80;
• At the same time, Steve Bowcott was appointed chief 
operating officer with responsibility for both the 
Construction and Services divisions and Haydn Mursell 
assumed operational responsibility for the Property 
division, in addition to his responsibilities as finance 
director. As outlined in our remuneration report last 
year, the Committee consulted extensively with 
shareholders during the summer of 2013 on the 
remuneration arrangements to reflect the enhanced 
roles for Haydn and Steve. Following this consultation, 
revised remuneration arrangements were put in place, 
phased over the 2014 and 2015 financial years and 
subject to continued satisfactory performance. These 
included increases in base pay, in addition to the 
average annual pay review across the Group, and an 
increase in awards under the LTIP from 100% to 150% 
of base salary for 2014 and 2015. The additional 50% 
opportunity in the 2014 financial year related to 
a specific return on capital employed (ROCE) target for 
May Gurney, in addition to the standard measures of 
earnings per share (‘EPS’) and total shareholder return 
(‘TSR’), which have been used since 2010. This 
reflected feedback from shareholders who required 
a focus for the successful integration of the newly-
acquired business, to ensure that the expected 
synergies in the 2016 financial year would be delivered. 
The maximum annual bonus opportunity remained at 
100% of base salary; 
• In February 2014, the Company announced that Paul 
Sheffield would be standing down as chief executive 
from 30 June 2014 and that Haydn Mursell would 
succeed Paul as chief executive from that date. Details 
of Paul’s termination arrangements are set out on page 
80; details of Haydn’s remuneration in his new role are 
set out on page 84. In considering the revised 
remuneration arrangements for Haydn, the Committee 
took into account his experience, the complexity of the 
role, market comparators and the ‘fair value’ of his 
overall remuneration. Having taken into account these 
factors, the Committee considered it appropriate to 
appoint Haydn on the same terms as the outgoing chief 
executive and that it was not necessary to require him 
to serve a probationary period. The Committee believes 
Amanda Mellor —
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
67
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 that his overall remuneration is competitive, but is also 
slightly below market median;
• The Committee believes in pay for performance and 
ensures that targets are stretching and linked to those 
measures necessary to ensure the long-term success 
of the Group. Annual bonus measures are primarily 
financial, but also include a number of non-financial 
measures in order to ensure a balanced view of the 
Group’s performance. This year, therefore, while good 
progress was made against both profit and cash 
targets, the Committee used its discretion not to permit 
a bonus payout with respect to the health and safety 
targets as a result of fatalities having occurred on Kier’s 
sites during the year. The Committee also decided not to 
pay the discretionary element of the bonus because of 
these safety issues; and
•  LTIP awards granted in 2011 were measured during 
the three-year period ended 30 June 2014 against 
challenging EPS and TSR targets. As a result of 
performance against these targets, the executive 
directors will receive 32.7% of the award when it vests 
in November 2014.
Remuneration arrangements for the current 
financial year
To ensure that the remuneration arrangements remain 
aligned with the Company’s strategic priorities and 
stakeholders’ views, the Committee proposes minor 
amendments to the executive remuneration arrangements 
for the current financial year. These are:
• Following discussions with shareholders, and having 
reviewed the LTIP performance measures to ensure 
that they remain appropriate, the Committee 
has decided to revert to the measures used since 
2010 for future LTIP awards, namely EPS and TSR. 
The performance period for the LTIP awards granted in 
October 2013 ends on 30 June 2016, which is also the 
end of the period in which the full annual run rate of 
synergies is expected to have been delivered from the 
acquisition of May Gurney. As a result, the Committee 
considered that the May Gurney ROCE element would 
no longer be a relevant performance measure for 
future LTIP awards; and
• The focus on performance has been further emphasised 
by the introduction of a ‘malus’ provision for LTIP awards 
granted from 2014, providing the Committee with 
discretion to reduce or cancel unvested awards 
in circumstances which it considers to be appropriate, 
including, for example, a material mis-statement of the 
Group’s audited results.
The Committee decided that the awards under the annual 
bonus plan will remain at 100% of base salary, with 
one-third of any award being deferred into shares for 
three years.
Directors’ remuneration report  
continued
Conclusion
I hope that you will find this new style of report helpful. The 
Committee has sought to increase the levels of disclosure 
and transparency with respect to executive remuneration at 
Kier and to share with shareholders how it seeks to balance 
various considerations and interests in a fair way for the 
long-term success of the Group. Linking pay to the Group’s 
performance and reflecting the views of shareholders are 
fundamental to the remit of the Committee. The Committee 
will, therefore, continue to engage with shareholders to 
ensure that the Group’s remuneration framework and 
targets remain appropriate going forward. 
Amanda Mellor
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
68
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Compliance statement
This report complies with the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 and the Listing Rules and applies the Main Principles relating to remuneration which are set out 
in The UK Code on Corporate Governance.
The information contained in the following parts of this report have been audited: the table containing the single total figure of remuneration 
for directors and accompanying notes on page 77, pension entitlements on page 79, incentive awards made during the year on pages 79 
and 80, payments to past directors on page 80, payments for loss of office on page 80 and the statement of directors’ shareholdings 
and share interests on page 81.
The remuneration policy report
This section of the report sets out the policy for the directors’ remuneration at Kier, which shareholders are asked to approve at the 2014 
annual general meeting. The policy will take effect from the date of that meeting (subject to shareholder approval).
Policy table
Details of the Group’s policy for each element of an executive director’s remuneration are set out in the table below.
Element and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Base salary 
To attract and retain executive 
directors of the calibre required 
to deliver the Group’s strategy.
Salaries are reviewed annually 
by reference to an individual’s 
experience, performance and role 
within the Group, the external 
market (including FTSE companies 
of a similar size and sector peers) 
and any increase awarded to the 
wider employee population.
Any increase is typically effective 
from 1 July.
Any increase will typically be in 
line with those awarded to the 
wider employee population. The 
Committee has discretion to award 
higher increases in circumstances 
that it considers appropriate, 
such as a material change in the 
complexity of the business or 
an individual’s responsibility. 
Details of salary changes will be 
disclosed in the annual report.
Continued strong performance.
Benefits 
To provide benefits which are 
competitive with the market.
Benefits are reviewed from time to 
time and typically include, but are 
not limited to, a company car or car 
allowance, private health insurance 
and life assurance.
In certain circumstances, the 
Committee may also approve the 
provision of additional benefits or 
allowances – for example, the 
relocation of an executive director 
to perform his or her role.
Benefits are set at a level which 
the Committee considers 
appropriate in light of the market 
and an individual’s circumstances.
None.
Save As You Earn 
(SAYE) Scheme 
To encourage ownership of the 
Company’s shares.
An HMRC-approved scheme 
allowing all employees, including 
executive directors, to save up to 
the maximum limit specified by 
HMRC rules. Options are granted 
at up to a 20% discount.
The maximum amount that may 
be saved is the limit prescribed by 
HMRC (or such other lower limit 
as determined by the Committee) 
at the time employees are invited 
to participate in the scheme. 
Typically, employees are invited to 
participate on an annual basis.
None.
All Employee Share Ownership 
Plan (AESOP)  
To encourage ownership of the 
Company’s shares.
An HMRC-approved scheme which 
is open to all UK tax resident 
employees of participating Group 
companies. Executive directors are 
eligible to participate. 
The plan allows employees to 
purchase shares out of pre-tax 
income. 
The Company may match shares 
purchased with an award of free 
shares. Matching shares may be 
forfeited if employees leave within 
three years of their award, in 
accordance with the AESOP rules.
The plan trustee can reinvest cash 
dividends to acquire further shares 
on behalf of participants.
Participants can purchase 
shares up to the prevailing limit 
approved by HMRC (or such other 
lower limit as determined by the 
Committee) at the time they are 
invited to participate. 
The Company currently offers to 
match purchases made through 
the plan at the rate of one free 
share for every two shares 
purchased. 
None.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
69
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Element and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Pension  
To provide a retirement benefit 
which is competitive with 
the market.
Executive directors participate in 
a defined contribution scheme. 
For current executive directors, the 
maximum employer contribution is 
20% of pensionable salary.
Executive directors may elect to 
receive all or part of the employer 
contribution as a taxable cash 
supplement.
None.
Annual bonus 
To reward the delivery of near-term 
performance targets and business 
strategy.
The Company operates a 
discretionary bonus scheme.
Performance measures and targets 
are set by the Committee at the 
start of the year. Payments are 
based on an assessment of 
performance at the end of the year.
One-third of any award is deferred 
for three years (subject to early 
release for ‘good leavers’) and 
satisfied in Kier Group plc shares. 
Past awards of deferred shares 
are subject to forfeiture if an 
individual’s employment is 
terminated in circumstances of 
gross misconduct and/or justifying 
summary dismissal and/or the 
Group’s profit before tax or cash 
position for the relevant year is 
found to have been mis-stated.
Awards of deferred shares made 
from 2014 will include a revised 
‘malus’ provision. See ‘Malus’ on 
page 72.
Dividend payments accrue on 
deferred bonus shares over the 
deferral period.
The current maximum potential 
bonus is 100% of base salary.
‘Threshold’ performance, for which 
an element of bonus may become 
payable under each component 
of the annual bonus, is set by the 
Committee at the start of each 
financial year.
The level of bonus for achieving 
threshold performance varies by 
performance measure, and may 
vary for a measure from year to 
year, to ensure that it is aligned 
with the Committee’s assessment 
of the degree of difficulty (or 
‘stretch’) in achieving it.
The performance measures and 
targets for the financial year 
ending 30 June 2015 are profit 
(55%), cash (25%), health and 
safety (10%) and personal 
performance (10%). 
The Committee has discretion 
to determine the measures and 
their relative weightings each year. 
The weighting towards non-
financial measures will be no 
higher than 25% of the maximum 
potential bonus.
The Committee has discretion to 
adjust bonus payments to ensure 
that they accurately reflect 
business performance over the 
performance period and are fair to 
shareholders as well as recipients.
Actual targets for each performance 
measure (and performance against 
each of these targets), and any use 
by the Committee of its discretion 
with respect to bonus payments, will 
be disclosed in the annual report 
immediately following the end 
of the performance period.
Directors’ remuneration report  
continued
70
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Element and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
To reward the sustained strong 
performance by the Group over 
three years.
Awards are made annually and 
vest, subject to the achievement 
of performance conditions, 
at the end of a three-year 
performance period. 
At the start of each performance 
period, the Committee sets 
performance targets which it 
considers to be appropriately 
stretching.
Awards are satisfied in the form 
of a deferred, contingent right to 
acquire shares in the Company, 
at no cost to the individual.
LTIP awards granted from 2014 
will include a ‘malus’ provision. 
See ‘Malus’ on page 72.
If an event or series of events occur 
as a result of which the Committee 
deems it fair that the performance 
conditions should be waived or 
modified, the Committee has 
discretion during the vesting period 
to waive or modify them. Any 
modified performance conditions 
must be no more difficult to satisfy 
than the original performance 
conditions were when first set.
Any use of Committee discretion 
with respect to waiving or 
modifying performance conditions 
will be disclosed in the relevant 
annual report.
The maximum award under the 
rules of the plan is 200% 
of base salary. 
The Committee may grant awards 
of up to the maximum permitted 
under the LTIP rules when it 
considers it appropriate to do so. 
The reasons for an award in excess 
of 150% of salary will be disclosed 
in the relevant annual report.
On achieving the threshold 
performance level for each element 
of the award, 25% of the relevant 
element of the award will vest. 
Vesting is on a straight-line basis 
between threshold and maximum 
levels of performance.
LTIP awards will be awarded in the 
financial year ending 30 June 2015 
based on an equal weighting of 
EPS and TSR performance.
EPS performance is measured 
by compound cumulative growth 
over the performance period.
TSR outperformance is measured 
on a multiplicative basis relative to 
a revenue-weighted index based on 
the FTSE ASX Construction and 
FTSE ASX Support Services indices. 
If TSR outperformance is used in 
future award cycles, the revenue 
weightings will be fixed based on 
the Group’s approximate revenue 
mix in the year prior to grant. 
The Committee retains discretion to 
supplement EPS and TSR with 
additional performance measures 
to ensure that the awards are 
always linked to sustained business 
performance. No measure will carry 
a weighting of less than 25%.
Actual performance measures 
and weightings will be disclosed 
in the annual report immediately 
following the granting of an award. 
The Committee is satisfied that this remuneration policy is in the best interests of shareholders. The Committee retains discretion 
to make non-material changes to the policy without reverting to shareholders.
Payments from outstanding awards
The Company will honour any commitment entered into, and executive directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award 
made, prior to the approval and introduction of this remuneration policy, which is expected to be after the annual general meeting 
on 13 November 2014. 
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
71
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report  
continued
Notes to the policy table
‘Malus’
Previous deferred annual bonus awards include the ‘malus’ provision 
described in the table above, whereas deferred annual bonus and 
LTIP awards granted from 2014 onwards will be subject to revised 
‘malus’ provisions. These will allow the Committee to determine, in 
its absolute discretion, that (i) an unvested LTIP award (or part of an 
award) may not vest or that the level of vesting is reduced and/or (ii) 
the number of deferred shares (allocated in part satisfaction of the 
annual bonus) is reduced (including to nil) in certain circumstances. 
Examples of such circumstances include, but are not limited to:
• A material mis-statement of the Group’s financial statements;
• A material error in determining the level of satisfaction of a 
performance condition or target;
• A participant deliberately misleading the Company, the market 
and/or shareholders in relation to the financial performance of 
the Group; and
• A participant’s employment being terminated in circumstances 
of gross misconduct and/or circumstances justifying 
summary dismissal.
The Committee has the right to apply the ‘malus’ provision to an 
individual or on a collective basis.
Executive director shareholding guidelines
The Committee encourages executive directors to accumulate a 
shareholding in the Company of at least two years’ base salary over a 
period of up to five years. Executive directors are encouraged to retain 
any shares allocated to them as part of the annual bonus arrangements 
and 50% of the shares allocated to them upon the vesting of LTIP 
awards (net of tax) until they reach this level of shareholding.
Selection of performance measures and approach 
to setting targets
The measures used for the annual bonus are determined annually 
to reflect KPIs which are considered important and relevant to the 
Group. The Committee believes that using a number of measures 
provides a balanced incentive. The measures themselves are 
aligned to, and are designed to support the delivery of, the 
Group’s strategy. 
In relation to the LTIP awards, the Committee believes that the 
combination of EPS and TSR clearly aligns performance to 
shareholders’ interests and the Group’s long-term strategy. 
EPS is a key measure of long-term underlying performance of 
the Group. TSR is intended to measure management’s contribution 
to the creation of value for shareholders. A revenue-weighted index 
based on the FTSE ASX Construction and FTSE ASX Support Services 
indices reflects the Group’s mix of business. In future years, the 
Committee may decide to select other performance measures.
Targets for the annual bonus and the LTIP awards are reviewed 
before the awards are made, based on a number of internal and 
external reference points. The Committee intends that targets will 
be stretching but achievable and will align management’s interests 
with those of shareholders.
Differences from remuneration policy for other employees
Kier’s approach to setting annual remuneration is broadly consistent 
across the Group. Consideration is given to the experience, 
performance and responsibilities of individuals as well as publicly 
available external benchmarking data, to the extent considered 
necessary or appropriate. Certain grades of senior employees are 
eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme with similar 
performance measures to those used for the executive directors. 
Maximum opportunities and specific performance measures vary by 
seniority, with business-specific measures applied where appropriate. 
Senior managers (currently, approximately 200 individuals) are also 
eligible to participate in the LTIP. The performance measures for each 
LTIP award cycle are typically the same for all participants (although 
the rules of the LTIP permit the Committee to grant LTIP awards using 
different performance measures). Award sizes vary according to 
seniority and responsibility. 
72
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Illustration of application of remuneration policy
The charts below set out the minimum (i.e. ‘fixed’) remuneration receivable by each executive director as at the date of this report, as well 
as the potential remuneration for ‘on-target’ and ‘maximum’ performance, as a result of the application of the remuneration policy set out 
above in the year ending 30 June 2015. 
‘Fixed’ remuneration comprises base salary, pension and benefits. The ‘on-target’ remuneration stated assumes an annual bonus payment 
of 50% of the maximum opportunity and a ‘threshold’ LTIP vesting (25% of the maximum opportunity). The ‘maximum’ remuneration stated 
assumes maximum performance is achieved and therefore awards under the annual bonus and the LTIP pay out or vest at their normal 
maximum level of 100% and 150% of salary, respectively. No share price appreciation is assumed for LTIP awards. Performance measures 
for the annual bonus and the LTIP awards relate to one financial year and three financial years, respectively.
Approach to remuneration on recruitment
External appointment
When recruiting a new executive director from outside the Group, the Committee may make use of all the existing components of 
remuneration. In addition, the Committee may consider it appropriate to grant an award under an alternative scheme or arrangement 
in order to facilitate recruitment of an individual, subject to the policy set out below:
Component Approach
Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of 
the individual, internal relativities and the appointee’s current base salary. Where a new appointee has an initial base 
salary set below the market median, any subsequent adjustment will be managed by the Committee, using (where 
appropriate) phased increases and subject to the individual’s development in the role.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the remuneration policy, which may also include (but are 
not limited to) any necessary expenses relating to expatriation or relocation on recruitment.
SAYE Scheme New appointees will be eligible to participate on the same terms as all other employees.
AESOP New appointees will be eligible to participate on the same terms as all other employees.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions of up to 20% of pensionable salary into a defined contribution 
pension arrangement or an equivalent taxable cash supplement or a combination of both.
Annual bonus The annual bonus structure described in the remuneration policy will apply to new appointees (including the maximum 
opportunity), pro rated in the year of joining to reflect the proportion of that year employed. One-third of any bonus 
earned will be deferred into shares.
LTIP New appointees may be granted awards under LTIP of up to 200% of salary, as contemplated by the remuneration 
policy.
‘Buy-out’ awards The Committee may consider it appropriate to grant a ‘buy-out’ award (with respect to either a bonus or a share-based 
incentive scheme) under an alternative scheme or arrangement in order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual. 
When doing so, the Committee may, to the extent required, exercise the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.2. 
Any such ‘buy-out’ award would have a fair value of no higher than that of the award forfeited. In granting any such 
award, the Committee will consider relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to the forfeited 
awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining. When 
considering any performance conditions, the Committee will, where appropriate, take into account those used in 
the Company’s own incentive arrangements. Where appropriate, the Committee will also consider whether it is 
necessary to introduce further retention measures for an individual – for example, extended deferral periods.
In determining an appropriate remuneration package, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that the 
arrangements are in the best interests of the Company’s shareholders. 
Haydn Mursell
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
(£000)
Fixed
■ Long-term incentive  ■ Annual incentive  ■ Fixed
On Target Maximum
100%
£619
58%
24%
18%
£1,061
33%
27%
40%
£1,882
Steve Bowcott
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
Fixed
■ Long-term incentive  ■ Annual incentive  ■ Fixed
On Target Maximum
100%
£521
58%
24%
18%
£890
33%
27%
40%
£1,574
(£000)
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
73
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report  
continued
The remuneration of the new finance director, Beverley Dew, will be within the terms of the policy on external recruitment and disclosed 
in next year’s annual report on remuneration. 
Internal promotion
When recruiting a new executive director through internal promotion, the Committee will set remuneration in a manner consistent with 
the policy for external appointments set out above (other than with respect to ‘buy-out’ awards). Where an individual has contractual 
commitments made prior to their promotion to executive director level, the Company will continue to honour these commitments. 
The remuneration of individuals below the Board is typically not greater than for executive directors.
Service contracts
A summary of the key elements of the executive directors’ service agreements (insofar as they relate to remuneration) is as follows:
Term of contract Summary of provisions
Notice period 12 months’ notice (both to and from the executive director).
Payment in lieu of 
notice (PILON)
Employment can be terminated with immediate effect by undertaking to make a payment in lieu of notice (PILON) 
comprising base salary, accrued (but untaken) holiday pay, pension contributions or allowance, car allowance and 
private medical insurance. 
The Company is entitled to make the PILON on a phased basis, so that any outstanding payment(s) would be reduced or 
stopped if alternative employment is obtained.
Change of control There are no payments due upon a change of control, although deferred bonus will be released.
Entitlements on 
termination
There is no contractual entitlement to notice or any other payments in respect of the period after cessation of 
employment in circumstances in which the individual is summarily dismissed. In such circumstances, deferred bonus 
shares will be forfeited and LTIP awards will lapse.
If the individual is not a ‘bad leaver’ (and any ‘malus’ provision is not applied), deferred bonus shares will be released 
upon cessation of employment and the position with respect to LTIP awards is as set out under ‘Payments for loss of 
office’ below.
If not required to take any remaining holiday entitlement during his notice period, the executive director will receive 
a payment for any accrued (but untaken) holiday entitlement.
It is expected that these terms will apply to any service agreements entered into with executive directors during the period in which this 
remuneration policy will apply.
74
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Payments for loss of office
The Company’s policy on payments for loss of office is as follows:
Component Approach
Annual bonus Individuals who are considered to be ‘good leavers’ may be considered for a bonus in relation to the year in which their 
active employment ceases. Any payment will normally be pro rated for length of service and performance during the 
year. However, the Committee retains the discretion to review the performance of the individual and the Group in 
general and, having done so, determine that a different level of bonus payment would be appropriate. Deferred bonus 
shares will, typically, be released to the individual upon cessation of office, unless the ‘malus’ provision applies. 
LTIP If an executive director’s employment ceases for reasons of death, ill-health, injury, disability, retirement with the 
agreement of the Company or his employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group or such other circumstances 
approved by the Committee, outstanding awards are retained. The Committee may also (at its discretion) permit 
unvested LTIP awards to vest on an accelerated basis or alternatively be retained until the vesting date. Unvested LTIP 
awards will, subject to Committee discretion, normally be pro rated for length of service during the performance period 
and will, subject to performance, normally vest at the same time as all other awards in the LTIP award cycle. A ‘malus’ 
provision also applies to all LTIP awards granted from 2014. 
For all other leavers, outstanding LTIP awards automatically lapse, unless the Committee exercises its discretion 
otherwise (taking into account the factors detailed immediately following this table).
AESOP and SAYE 
Scheme
The executive directors are subject to the same ‘leaver’ provisions as all other participants, as prescribed by the rules 
of the relevant scheme or plan.
Other If the Company terminates an executive director’s employment by reason of redundancy, the Company will make a 
redundancy payment to the executive director in line with his service agreement, any applicable collective bargaining 
agreement and applicable law and regulation.
The Company may make a contribution towards an executive director’s legal fees for advice relating to a compromise or 
settlement agreement and may also make other payments connected to the departure – for example, for outplacement 
services. With respect to any such payments, the Committee will authorise what it considers to be reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Change of control Deferred bonus shares will be released, any outstanding LTIP awards may vest early (subject to the Committee’s 
discretion, having taken into account current and forecast progress against the performance condition(s), the proportion 
of the vesting period which has elapsed and any other factors considered by the Committee to be relevant) and the rules 
of the AESOP and the SAYE Scheme will apply. No payments are due under the executive directors’ service agreements 
upon a change of control.
Where appropriate, the Committee will oblige the individual to 
mitigate his/her losses and either offset any alternative remuneration 
received by the individual against any payments made by the 
Company for loss of office or reduce any payments to be made by 
the Company for loss of office to take account of any failure to 
mitigate when, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, the 
individual has failed actively to do so.
In exercising discretion in respect of any of the elements referred 
to above, the Committee will take into account all factors which it 
considers to be appropriate at the relevant time. These include, but 
are not limited to: the duration of the executive director’s service; the 
Committee’s assessment of the executive director’s contribution to 
the success of the Group; whether the executive director has worked 
any notice period or whether a payment in lieu of notice is being 
made; the need to ensure an orderly handover of duties; and the need 
to compromise any claims which the executive director may have. 
Any use of Committee discretion will be disclosed in the relevant 
annual report on remuneration.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere 
in the Group
Employees are not formally consulted on the executive directors’ 
remuneration and were not consulted during the preparation of the 
remuneration policy set out above. However, the Group’s employee 
engagement survey provides an opportunity for employees to 
provide their opinion on their own remuneration arrangements 
(and also on other matters across the Group). 
The Committee takes into account the overall pay and employment 
conditions of employees within the Group when making decisions on 
the executive directors’ remuneration. Accordingly, the Committee 
(i) is provided with information about the proposed annual Group-wide 
pay review when setting the executive directors’ salaries, (ii) is made 
aware of the approximate outcomes of annual bonuses and (iii) sets 
the LTIP performance targets which typically apply to all participants 
in the annual LTIP award cycle. 
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
75
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report  
continued
Consideration of shareholder views
The views of shareholders, and guidance from shareholder representative bodies, are important to the Committee and provide the context for 
setting the remuneration of the executive directors. The chair of the Committee and the chairman of the Company have met with a number of 
the significant shareholders during the year and their views have been taken into account when preparing the remuneration policy. 
The Committee will keep the remuneration policy under regular review so as to ensure that it continues to relate to the Company’s long-term 
strategy and aligns the interests of the executive directors with those of shareholders. In addition, the Committee will continue to monitor 
trends and developments in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the structure of executive remuneration remains 
appropriate.
Non-executive director remuneration policy
General
The non-executive directors’ remuneration (including that of the chairman) reflects the anticipated time commitment to fulfil their duties. 
Non-executive directors do not receive bonuses, long-term incentive awards, a pension or compensation on termination of their 
appointments. The policy on non-executive directors’ fees is as follows:
Element and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Fees 
To attract and retain non-
executive directors of the 
calibre required and with 
appropriate skills and 
experience. 
Fee levels are reviewed annually 
with reference to individual 
experience, the external market 
and the expected time 
commitment required of the 
director.
Additional fees are payable to 
committee chairs and to the 
senior independent director. 
Fees may be increased in line 
with the outcome of the annual 
review and will not normally 
exceed the increase awarded to 
the wider employee population. 
Higher increases may be 
awarded should there be 
a material change to the 
requirements of the role, such as 
additional time commitment. 
Any changes to fees will be 
disclosed in the annual report on 
remuneration for the relevant year.
Continued strong performance.
Recruiting non-executive directors 
When recruiting a new non-executive director, the Committee will follow the policy set out in the table above.
Non-executive director letters of appointment
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but have entered into letters of appointment with the Company. The letters 
of appointment do not include any provisions for the payment of pre-determined compensation upon termination of appointment. 
The effective dates of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors at 30 June 2014 and the applicable notice periods are 
as follows:
Director Effective date Notice period
Richard Bailey 1 October 2010 1 month
Amanda Mellor 1 December 2011 1 month
Phil White
1
1 July 2006 1 month
Nick Winser 1 March 2009 1 month
1
  Phil White assumed the role of chairman with effect from 2 January 2008.
Kirsty Bashforth became a director with effect from 1 September 2014. Her letter of appointment contains a one month notice period. 
No term is included in the non-executive directors’ letters of appointment. Notice may be served by either party to the letter of appointment. 
76
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The annual report on remuneration
This section of the report sets out the annual report on remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2014.
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2014
The following table provides details of the directors’ remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2014, together with their remuneration for 
the year ended 30 June 2013:
Salary/fees 
 (£000) 
Bonus 
(£000)
Taxable benefits
1
 
(£000)
LTIP 
vesting
 in year
 
(£000)
 All-employee 
 schemes 
(£000)
Pension
5
 (£000)
Total 
(£000)
13/14 12/13 13/14 12/13 13/14 12/13 13/14
2
12/13
3
13/14
4
12/13 13/14 12/13 13/14 12/13
Executive directors
Steve Bowcott 378 343 257 167 16 16 129 130 1 – 76 69 857 725
Haydn Mursell 378 343 257 167 13 13 129 130 1 – 76 69 854 722
Paul Sheffield 481 469 327 229 15 15 180 180 – – 96 94 1,099 987
Non-executive 
directors
Richard Bailey 54 53 – – – – – – – – – – 54 53
Chris Geoghegan
6
37 55 – – – – – – – – – – 37 55
Amanda Mellor 54 47 – – – – – – – – – – 54 47
Phil White 165 162 – – – – – – – – – – 165 162
Nick Winser 54 47 – – – – – – – – – – 54 47
Total 1,601 1,519 841 563 44 44 438 440 2 – 248 232 3,174 2,798
1
 Comprise private health insurance and a company car or a car allowance.
2
 The award granted on 17 November 2011 will vest as to 32.7% on 17 November 2014. Calculated by multiplying the number of shares receivable 
by the relevant director (before deduction for income tax and national insurance contributions) by the average middle market quotation of a share 
in the capital of the Company for the three months ended 30 June 2014 of £17.00. 
3
 The award granted in November 2010 vested as to 31.2% on 14 November 2013, as detailed on page 61 of last year’s annual report. Calculated 
by multiplying the number of shares receivable by the relevant director (before deduction for income tax and national insurance contributions) by 
the middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the Company on 14 November 2013 of £17.19. The value of these awards referred to in 
last year’s annual report was based on the three-month average share price for the period ended 30 June 2013.
4
 The value of the 44 matching shares purchased for the individual during the year under the AESOP, using an average share price of £17.13.
5
 Comprises the payment of employer pension contributions and/or a cash allowance. 
6
 Chris Geoghegan retired from the Board with effect from 21 February 2014.
Annual bonus
During the year ended 30 June 2014, the executive directors were eligible to receive a bonus of up to 100% of base salary. Of this, a 
maximum of 55% was payable if the Group achieved certain profit performance targets and a maximum of 25% was payable if the Group 
also achieved certain cash performance targets. Of the remaining 20%, 10% was payable if health and safety performance targets (divided 
as to 50% for Kier performance and 50% for May Gurney performance), which are considered to be key non-financial performance measures 
for the Group, were achieved. The remaining 10% was payable at the discretion of the Committee (subject to an assessment of the executive 
director’s performance).
One-third of any annual bonus awarded to the executive directors was satisfied in Kier Group plc shares and is subject to forfeiture in the 
circumstances set out in the policy table. A similar approach is applied to the annual bonus arrangements for certain members of the senior 
management team. The Committee believes that part satisfaction of the annual bonus in shares strengthens the alignment of the interests 
of the executive directors, and members of senior management, with those of shareholders.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
77
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report  
continued
The bonuses awarded in respect of the year ended 30 June 2014 represented 67.9% of the base salaries of the executive directors. 
Further details are provided in the following table:
Performance level
Performance achieved 
(% age of base salary)
Weighting
Measure/
weighting ‘Threshold’ ‘On target’ ‘Stretch’ Actual
Steve
 Bowcott
Haydn
 Mursell
Paul
 Sheffield
Financial 80% Profit before tax 
(55%)
Target <£70m £70m £77m £73.1m
46.6% 46.6% 46.6%
Payout
1
 0% 40% 55% 46.6%
Average month-end 
cash (25%)
Target £(165)m £(150)m £(135)m £(140.5)m
21.3% 21.3% 21.3%
Payout
1
0% 15% 25% 21.3%
Non-financial 20% Health & safety  
– Kier (5%)
2
See note 2 – – –
Health & safety  
– May Gurney (5%)
2
– – –
Discretionary element (10%)
3
See note 3 – – –
Total 67.9% 67.9% 67.9%
1
 As a percentage of maximum opportunity.
2
 The health and safety performance targets related to a reduction in Kier’s and May Gurney’s AIR from April to June 2014, as compared to the 
equivalent period in 2013. Although both Kier’s and May Gurney’s AIR decreased significantly during the year, the Committee decided that, as 
a result of the fatalities which occurred during the course of the year, there would be no payout with respect to the safety element of the bonus.
3
 The Committee also decided that, in light of these fatalities, none of the discretionary element of the bonus would be payable.
LTIP awards
The three-year performance period of the LTIP awards granted on 17 November 2011 ended on 30 June 2014. Further details relating to 
these awards are set out below.
Performance against the performance conditions of these awards was as follows:
Performance condition Weighting Targets
Actual 
performance
Level of 
vesting 
Cumulative EPS growth 1/3 0% vesting for below 5% p.a. Below threshold 0%
25% vesting for 5% p.a.
100% vesting for 15% p.a.
Straight-line vesting between these points
TSR outperformance¹ 2/3 0% vesting for below index Index +3.84% p.a. 49.0%
25% vesting for performance in line with index
100% vesting for performance in line with index + 12% p.a.
Straight-line vesting between these points
Total 32.7%
1
 Against a revenue-weighted index based 75% on the FTSE ASX Construction Index and 25% on the FTSE ASX Support Services Index (representing 
the Group’s approximate prior year revenue mix at the date of grant).
The vesting of these awards on the third anniversary of the date of grant (i.e. 17 November 2014) will result in the allocation of the following 
numbers of shares to the following individuals:
Director
Maximum
 number of
 shares
Number 
of shares 
vesting Value
1
Steve Bowcott 23,239 7,599 £129,183
Ian Lawson
2
18,075 5,910 £100,470
Haydn Mursell 23,239 7,599 £129,183
Paul Sheffield 32,394 10,592 £180,064
1
 The value of an award is calculated by multiplying the number of vested shares by the average middle market quotation of a share in the capital of 
the Company for the three months ended 30 June 2014 of £17.00.
2
 Ian Lawson retired from the Board with effect from 21 June 2013. The maximum number of shares receivable under his award was reduced from 
27,113 to 18,075 to reflect his active service with the Group during the performance period.
‘Maximum number of shares’, ‘number of shares vesting’ and ‘value’ are shown prior to deductions for income tax and national insurance contributions.
78
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Pension entitlements
Haydn Mursell and Steve Bowcott participate in the defined contribution section of the Kier Group Pension Scheme. Both receive a 
pension contribution of 20% of base salary, subject to the annual allowance (which reduced from £50,000 to £40,000 from 6 April 2014). 
The balance is paid as a cash allowance.
Paul Sheffield participated in the defined benefit section of the Kier Group Pension Scheme, although opted out of the scheme with effect from 
30 June 2010 and became entitled to a deferred pension from that date. During the year, Paul Sheffield received a cash allowance of 20% of 
base salary in lieu of continued pension accrual. The value of his accrued deferred pension since opting out, including revaluation at 30 June 
2014, was £153,000 per annum and is payable from age 62 (the normal retirement age under the scheme).
Cash allowances are subject to the usual tax and national insurance deductions which are payable by the executive director and excluded 
when determining annual bonus and long-term incentives.
Payments to the executive directors with respect to the Kier Group Pension Scheme during the year ended 30 June 2014 were:
Director
Pension 
contribution 
Cash 
allowance Total
Haydn Mursell £47,500 £28,016 £75,516
Steve Bowcott £47,500 £28,016 £75,516
Paul Sheffield – £96,186 £96,186
Incentive awards made during the year
The following incentive awards were made to each of the executive directors during the year ended 30 June 2014:
Award Basis of award Director Face value
1
 
Potential 
award for 
threshold 
performance
End of 
performance 
period
Vesting 
date
Difference 
between 
exercise 
price and 
face value
Performance 
measures
LTIP
 
150% of base salary 
for the year ended 
30 June 2014
Steve 
Bowcott
Haydn
Mursell
Paul
Sheffield
2
£566,269
£566,269
£721,394
25% of  
face value
30 June 
2016
21 October 
2016
n/a
Awards are based 
1/3 on three-year 
cumulative EPS, 
1/3 on relative 
TSR performance 
and 1/3 on May 
Gurney ROCE. See 
below for details 
of targets
Deferred 
shares 
1/3 of the net bonus
for the year ended 
30 June 2013
Steve 
Bowcott
Haydn
Mursell
Paul
Sheffield 
£29,595
£29,595
£40,466
n/a n/a
28 October 
2016
n/a
Continued service 
condition (subject 
to the ‘malus’ 
provision – please 
see the future 
policy table)
AESOP
Matching shares 
purchased in 
accordance with 
the AESOP rules
3
Steve 
Bowcott
Haydn
Mursell
Paul
Sheffield 
£754
£754
–
n/a n/a n/a n/a
Continued service 
condition 
1
 For the LTIP awards, ‘face value’ is calculated using the middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the Company on 18 October 2013 
of £17.81. The LTIP awards were granted on 21 October 2013, using the share price from the business day immediately prior to the date of grant. 
For the deferred share awards, ‘face value’ is calculated using the middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the Company on 25 October 
2013 of £17.85. The deferred shares were allocated on 28 October 2013, using the share price from the business day immediately prior to the 
date of allocation.
2
 
 
The LTIP award granted to Paul Sheffield was reduced from 40,505 shares to 13,501 shares in accordance with the terms of his departure 
from office. The face value referred to is calculated using 40,505 shares. The face value of the reduced award is £240,453.
3
 
 
During the year, 44 matching shares were purchased for Steve Bowcott and Haydn Mursell under the AESOP. The face value of these shares is 
calculated using the average middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the Company at the dates of the purchases of £17.13.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
79
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report  
continued
Performance conditions (and respective weightings) and targets for the LTIP awards which were granted during the year ended 30 June 2014 
are set out in the table below. The awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date (i.e. 21 October 2016).
Performance condition Weighting Targets
Cumulative EPS growth 1/3 0% vesting for below 5% p.a.
25% vesting for 5% p.a.
100% vesting for 15% p.a.
Straight-line vesting between these points
TSR outperformance¹ 1/3 0% vesting for below index
25% vesting for performance in line with index
100% vesting for performance in line with index + 12% p.a.
Straight-line vesting between these points
May Gurney ROCE 1/3 0% vesting below 15%
25% vesting for 15%
100% vesting for 16%
Straight-line vesting between these points
¹ Against a revenue-weighted index based 50% on the FTSE ASX Construction Index and 50% on the FTSE ASX Support Services Index (representing 
the Group’s approximate prior year revenue mix at the date of grant).
Payments to past directors
There were no payments made for the year ended 30 June 2014 to any person who was not a director of the Company at the time the 
payment was made but who had been a director before that time, other than the LTIP award granted to Ian Lawson which will vest on 
17 November 2014, as described on page 78.
The values of the LTIP awards granted to Ian Lawson (who ceased to be a director on 21 June 2013) and Richard Simkin (who ceased to be 
a director on 30 June 2011) which vested on 14 November 2013, as disclosed in last year’s annual report, were based on a three-month 
average middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the Company for the period ended 30 June 2013. Using the share price from 
14 November 2013 of £17.19, Ian Lawson’s award which vested in November 2013 is valued at £156,859 and Richard Simkin’s award is 
valued at £45,949.
Payments for loss of office 
As reported in last year’s report and accounts, Ian Lawson resigned from the Board on 21 June 2013, although he was employed by the 
Group until 21 September 2013 to assist with the integration of May Gurney. Ian was entitled to £510,510 by way of a payment in lieu of his 
12-month notice (which began on 21 September 2013), payable in six monthly instalments until March 2014 and the balance in a lump sum 
in April 2014. The payment comprised salary, pension contributions and pay in relation to accrued but untaken holiday. It was agreed that all 
amounts payable would be reduced to the extent that, during the notice period, remuneration was obtained from alternative employment. 
Ian obtained alternative employment with Severfield plc and, as a result, the total amount payable by Kier to Ian with respect to his notice 
period was significantly reduced to £136,010. A statutory redundancy payment of £8,100 was paid to Ian, who also received a taxable 
benefit of £13,911 as a result of buying his car from the Company at written down book value.
The Committee decided that, in light of Ian’s long service with the Group (in total, approximately 20 years), it would be appropriate for Ian to be 
paid his bonus for the year ended 30 June 2013 and to allow his LTIP award granted in 2010 to vest in November 2013 (with his LTIP awards 
granted in November 2011 and September 2012 being pro rated for active service during the respective performance periods).
On 18 February 2014, it was announced that Paul Sheffield would stand down as chief executive with effect from 30 June 2014. Under his 
service agreement, Paul was entitled to 12 months’ notice and it was therefore agreed that Paul’s employment would terminate on the later 
of 30 June 2015 and the date, if any, on which he submitted a notice of resignation. Pending such termination, Paul would remain on garden 
leave. The Committee agreed that, up to (and including) 30 June 2015, Paul would be entitled to his salary (and cash pension supplement), 
payable in monthly instalments, but that he would take all reasonable steps to obtain work outside the Group, so as to reduce the amounts 
payable by the Company during his notice period. In July 2014, it was announced that Paul had obtained alternative employment with Laing 
O’Rourke, with effect from October 2014. As a result, the monthly payments from Kier will cease in October 2014. All payments made to 
Paul with respect to the year ending 30 June 2015 will be disclosed in next year’s annual report on remuneration.
In light of his long service with the Group, it was agreed that Paul would receive his bonus for the year ended 30 June 2014 and that his 
2011 LTIP award granted would be permitted to vest. However, no bonus will be payable to Paul in relation to the financial year ending 
30 June 2015 and, although his LTIP awards granted in 2012 and 2013 will remain in place, they are subject to pro rating for active service 
during the performance periods.
80
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
The Committee encourages executive directors to build up a shareholding in the Company. With effect from 1 July 2013, the Committee 
increased the recommended level of shareholding from at least one year’s salary to at least two years’ salary, to be accumulated over a 
period of up to five years. Executive directors are therefore encouraged to retain any shares allocated to them as part of the annual bonus 
arrangements and 50% of the shares allocated to them upon the vesting of LTIP awards (net of tax) until this shareholding has been reached.
The following table sets out details, as at 30 June 2014, of the shareholding and share interests of those persons who, during the year 
ended 30 June 2014, served as a director of the Company: 
 
Shares held Options held
Director
Owned
outright
1
 
or vested
Vested but
subject to
a holding
period
2
Unvested and
subject to
performance
conditions
3
Unvested 
and subject
to continued
employment
4
Vested 
but not
exercised
Unvested 
and subject 
to continued
employment
5
Shareholding
guideline
(% of salary)
Current
shareholding
(of salary)
6
Guideline
met?
Steve Bowcott 12,112 6,330 79,530 162 – 857 200 86.6% No
Haydn Mursell 10,904 6,035 104,027 163 – – 200 79.5% No
Paul Sheffield 62,846 8,767 68,221 – – 857 200
264.3% Yes
Richard Bailey – – – – – – n/a n/a n/a
Amanda Mellor – – – – – – n/a n/a n/a
Phil White 2,540 – – – – – n/a n/a n/a
Nick Winser 3,500 – – – – – n/a n/a n/a
1
 Comprising legally or beneficially held shares by the relevant director or their connected person (including partnership shares, dividend shares and 
matching shares purchased before 30 June 2011 under the AESOP – see ‘AESOP’ below). Does not include shares allocated in respect of the LTIP 
award vesting on 17 November 2014.
2
 Comprising deferred shares allocated to the relevant director in connection with annual bonuses. See ‘Deferred shares’ below.
3
 Comprising unvested LTIP awards. With respect to Paul Sheffield, calculated using the pro rated 2013 and 2014 awards referred to in note 1 
under ‘LTIP awards’ below.
4
 Comprising matching shares purchased under the AESOP within the three-year period ended 30 June 2014. See ‘AESOP’ below.
5
 Comprising options under the SAYE Scheme. See ‘SAYE Scheme’ below.
6
 Calculated based on (i) shares owned outright by the director or his connected persons and (ii) deferred shares allocated to the relevant director 
in connection with annual bonuses, using the middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the Company on 30 June 2014 of £17.75 
and base salaries applicable to the year ended 30 June 2014.
Deferred shares
Those persons who, during the year ended 30 June 2014, served as a director of the Company beneficially owned, at 30 June 2014, the 
following numbers of shares in the capital of the Company as a result of awards of shares representing one-third of the relevant director’s 
net bonus in each of the years indicated:
Director 2012 award 2013 award 2014 award
Cumulative 
total
Steve Bowcott 1,860 2,812 1,658 6,330
Haydn Mursell 1,620 2,757 1,658 6,035
Paul Sheffield 2,580 3,920 2,267 8,767
Date of award 17 October 2011 14 September 2012 28 October 2013 –
Share price used for award
1
1,376p 1,401p 1,785p –
End of holding period 17 October 2014 14 September 2015 28 October 2016 –
1
 The middle market quotation of a share from the business day immediately prior to the date of the award, being 14 October 2011, 
13 September 2012 and 25 October 2013, respectively. 
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
81
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report  
continued
LTIP awards
Those persons who, during the year ended 30 June 2014, served as a director of the Company hold the LTIP awards over the following 
maximum numbers of shares in the capital of the Company:
Director 2012 award 2013 award 2014 award
Cumulative
 total 
30 June 
2014
Cumulative
 total 
30 June 
2013
Steve Bowcott 23,239 24,496 31,795 79,530 71,953
Haydn Mursell 23,239 48,993 31,795 104,027 96,450
Paul Sheffield
1
32,394 33,490 40,505 106,389 99,477
Date of award 17 November 2011 14 September 2012 21 October 2013 – –
Share price used for award
2
1,420p 1,401p 1,781p – –
End of performance period 30 June 2014 30 June 2015 30 June 2016 – –
1
 The 2013 and 2014 awards granted to Paul Sheffield were reduced to, respectively, 22,326 and 13,501 shares in accordance with the terms 
of his departure.
2
 The middle market quotation of a share from the business day immediately prior to the date of the award, being 14 November 2011, 
13 September 2012 and 18 October 2013, respectively.
The performance conditions for the 2012 and 2013 awards are set out in the annual reports in respect of the year in which the awards were 
made. The performance conditions for the 2014 awards are disclosed on page 80. 
AESOP
Those persons who, during the year ended 30 June 2014, served as a director of the Company beneficially own the following numbers of 
shares as a result of purchases under the AESOP at 30 June 2014:
Director
Partnership
 shares
Dividend 
shares 
Matching 
shares 
(<3 years)
Matching 
shares 
(>3 years)
Total number 
of shares
Steve Bowcott 881 256 162 262 1,561
Haydn Mursell 372 45 163 23 603
 
Under the AESOP, any amount saved by the executive directors will be applied by the trustee of the AESOP to make monthly purchases of 
shares on their behalf. The Company matches purchases through the AESOP (currently at the rate of one free share for every two shares 
purchased) and the trustee reinvests cash dividends to acquire further shares on behalf of the participants. 
Matching shares which have been purchased within three years of the termination of an individual’s employment may, depending on the 
circumstances of such termination, be forfeited. 
Details of the number of matching shares purchased during the year are set out in the table in the paragraph headed ‘Incentive awards 
made during the year’ on page 79. At 17 September 2014, the Company had been notified that the following current directors had acquired 
beneficial interests in further ordinary shares in the capital of the Company under the AESOP since 30 June 2014: Steve Bowcott, 33 shares; 
and Haydn Mursell, 33 shares. There have been no other changes in the interests of the directors (or their connected persons) in the 
ordinary shares in the capital of the Company since 30 June 2014.
SAYE Scheme
Those persons who, during the year ended 30 June 2014, served as a director of the Company had the following options under the SAYE 
Scheme at 30 June 2014:
Director Date granted
Maximum 
number of 
shares 
receivable
at 1 July 
2013
Awarded 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during the
year
Lapsed
during 
the year
Maximum 
number 
of shares 
receivable 
at 30 June 
2014
1
Exercise 
price Exercise period
Steve Bowcott 27 April 2012 857
1
– – – 857 1,050p 1 July 2015 –
1 January 2016
Paul Sheffield 27 April 2012 857
2
– – – 857 1,050p 1 July 2015 –
1 January 2016
1
 Assumes that Steve Bowcott saves the maximum permitted amount until the commencement of the exercise period.
2
 The maximum number of shares to which Paul Sheffield would have been entitled had he remained employed until the commencement of the 
option exercise period and saved the maximum permitted amount. The SAYE Scheme rules relating to ‘leavers’ will apply to the contribution saved 
by Paul Sheffield.
82
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Total shareholder return and chief executive’s remuneration
Total shareholder return
The TSR graph below shows the value, at 30 June 2014, of £100 invested in shares in the capital of the Company on 30 June 2009, 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE ASX Construction Index and the FTSE ASX Support Services Index. These benchmarks 
were chosen because they are considered to be the most appropriate against which the TSR of Kier should be measured and represents 
companies with which Kier competes. They also reflect trends within the UK construction and support services industries generally. The 
other points plotted are the values at 30 June during the five-year period. 
£300
£250
£150
£50
£200
Value of £100 invested on
30 June 2009
£100
£0
30 June 09 30 June 10 30 June 11 30 June 12 30 June 13 30 June 14
■ FTSE ASX Support Services Index  ■ Kier  ■ FTSE ASX Construction Index
Chief executive’s remuneration 
The table below sets out the total remuneration of the Group’s chief executive paid with respect to each financial year indicated:
 
30 June 2010 30 June 2011 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 30 June 2014
Chief executive John Dodds Paul Sheffield¹ Paul Sheffield Paul Sheffield Paul Sheffield Paul Sheffield
Total single figure £1,427,000 £238,000 £753,000 £1,273,000 £987,000 £1,099,000
Annual bonus
2
 51% 69% 75% 48.8% 67.9%
Long-term incentive
2
 0% 0% 100% 31.2% 32.7%
1
 Paul Sheffield became chief executive with effect from 1 April 2010. The figure quoted relates to remuneration received as chief executive during 
the year. 
2 
As a percentage of maximum opportunity.
All total single figures in the above table are rounded to the nearest £1,000. 
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
83
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report  
continued
Percentage change in the chief executive’s 
remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in the chief executive’s 
base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus for the year ended 
30 June 2014, as compared with the year ended 30 June 2013, 
together with the approximate comparative figures for those 
employees within the Group who were also eligible for salary reviews 
on 1 July of each year and who were not subject to collective 
agreements. This section of the employee population (comprising 
approximately 3,000 individuals across all levels within the Group) is 
considered to be the most appropriate group for the purposes of a 
comparison, as decisions with respect to these employees are within 
the control of the Group and are affected by similar external market 
forces as those which relate to the chief executive’s remuneration. 
May Gurney was acquired on 8 July 2013 and, as a result, the 
figures below do not include members of staff who transferred 
with May Gurney.
 
Chief executive 
change
All other
 employees 
change
Base salary 2.6% 5.5%
Taxable benefits – 7.0%
Annual bonus 43.0% 5.5%
Distribution statement
The graph below shows the percentage changes in the total 
employee expenditure and dividend paid between the years ended 
30 June 2013 and 30 June 2014. 
Employee expenditure £m
2014 610.5 +50.8%
 404.9
1
2013
Dividend £m
 39.4
 33.5
2014
2013
+17.6%
1
 Restated figure, on the adoption of the amendment to IAS 19.
Total employee expenditure for the years ended 30 June 2013 and 
2014 is explained in note 6 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
The interim and final dividends for the year ended 30 June 2013 
were 21.5p and 46.5p per share, respectively. The interim and final 
(proposed) dividends for the year ended 30 June 2014 are 22.5p and 
49.5p per share, respectively.
Implementation of policy for the year ending 
30 June 2015
Executive directors’ base salary
The base salaries of the executive directors increased with effect 
from 1 July 2014 as follows:
Director
From 
1 July 2014
 (£000)
From 
1 July 2013
 (£000) Increase
Steve Bowcott 421 378 11.5%
Haydn Mursell 505 378 33.6%
During consultation with shareholders in 2013, it was agreed that, 
for the 2015 financial year, Steve Bowcott’s salary would increase by 
6.5%, plus the approximate average salary increase of all employees 
in the Group of 5%, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
The Committee reviewed Steve’s performance during the year, 
noting in particular the breadth of his responsibilities as chief 
operating officer, which included a leading role in the operational 
integration of May Gurney and the Group’s business-efficiency 
programme, and, having also taken into account external market 
factors, decided that it would be appropriate to award him an 
aggregate increase of 11.5 per cent. 
Paul Sheffield’s salary for the year commencing 1 July 2013 was 
£481,000. In line with previous years, the Committee proposed 
to increase the chief executive’s salary by the same level as the average 
increases across the Group of 5%. The chief executive’s salary for the 
year commencing 1 July 2014 therefore increased by 5%, to £505,000. 
Haydn Mursell became chief executive with effect from 1 July 2014 and 
the Committee considered it appropriate to appoint him on the same 
level of base salary that the outgoing chief executive would have received. 
Further information is set out on page 67 . 
Annual bonus
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for each executive director 
will remain at 100% of base salary for the 2015 financial year. 
The performance measures and targets for the bonus are set out 
in the policy table on page 70. The targets for each performance 
measure, and performance against these targets, will be disclosed 
in next year’s annual report.
LTIP awards
The executive directors will be granted LTIP awards of 150% of 
base salary. The performance conditions for these awards will relate 
to cumulative EPS growth and TSR outperformance (with equal 
weightings). The targets for both the EPS and TSR elements of the 
award are the same as for the awards granted in the 2014 financial 
year, as described on page 80.
Pension and taxable benefits
The executive directors will receive a pension contribution of 20% of 
salary, subject to the annual allowance, with the balance being paid 
as a cash allowance. The executive directors will also receive private 
health insurance and either a company car or a car allowance of 
£11,900 per annum.
Non-executive directors’ fees
During the course of the year, there were a number of changes to 
the membership of the Board and its committees, as described 
previously in this annual report. When setting its remuneration 
policy, the Board therefore took the opportunity to review the overall 
fees paid to the non-executive directors (including the chairman) 
and to introduce a more formal structure, which the Board intends 
to review on an annual basis at the same time as it considers the 
executive directors’ remuneration. The Company’s remuneration 
84
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 consultants, Kepler Associates (‘Kepler’), were instructed to 
benchmark the fees using a range of external reference points. 
When reviewing the fees, the Board took into consideration, in 
particular, the increasing time commitments required of the 
non-executive directors. 
The Board also decided to pay a separate fee to the senior 
independent non-executive director for this element of his role, 
having previously only paid a minimal fee.
Having considered the results of the benchmarking exercise, 
the Board agreed that the following fee structure would apply 
from 1 July 2014:
Role Fee
Non-executive director £46,000
Chair of Board committee £10,000
Senior independent non-executive director £10,000
The Committee also decided, having considered the information 
provided by the benchmarking exercise, that it would be appropriate 
to increase the fee payable to the chairman by 5%, so as to bring it 
more into line with fees paid by peer group companies. The chairman 
does not receive a fee for his work as the chair of the Nomination 
Committee.
The total fees which were payable to the non-executive directors with 
effect from 1 July 2014 are:
Director From 1 July 2014 From 1 July 2013 Increase
Richard Bailey £66,000 £53,825 22.6%
Kirsty Bashforth
1
£46,000 – –
Amanda Mellor £56,000 £53,825 4.0%
Phil White £173,000 £164,771 5.0%
Nick Winser £56,000 £53,825 4.0%
1
 With effect from 1 September 2014.
Remuneration Committee membership 
The members of the Committee are:
• Amanda Mellor (chair, since 21 February 2014)
• Richard Bailey
• Kirsty Bashforth
• Phil White
• Nick Winser
In addition, the chief executive is invited, from time to time, to attend 
meetings of the Committee. No individuals are involved in decisions 
relating to their own remuneration. The Committee met formally 
three times during the year. The secretary of the Committee is the 
company secretary.
Key activities of the Committee during the year included:
• Approving the 2013 directors’ remuneration report; 
• Approving the bonuses paid to the directors in respect of the 2013 
financial year; 
• Setting the performance measures relating to, and the quantum 
of, LTIP awards to be made to the executive directors during the 
2014 financial year;
• Reviewing and setting the executive directors’ remuneration for 
the 2015 financial year; and
• Reviewing the revised remuneration reporting regulations and 
preparing this report.
The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the 
Company’s website: http://www.kier.co.uk. 
Remuneration Committee advisers 
During the year, the Committee was advised by its independent 
remuneration advisers, Kepler. Kepler is a signatory to the Code of 
Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which has been developed 
by the Remuneration Consultants Group. Kepler was appointed by 
the Committee and provides no other advice, or services, to the 
Group and is therefore considered to be independent. Fees of 
£86,923 (excluding VAT) were paid to Kepler in respect of advice 
for the 2014 financial year. The Committee also seeks internal 
support and advice from the company secretary.
Shareholder voting
At the 2013 annual general meeting, the results of the votes on the directors’ remuneration report were:
Total number of votes % of votes cast
For (including discretionary) 23,321,435 76.24
Against 7,270,027 23.76
Total votes cast (excluding withheld votes) 30,591,462 100
Votes withheld 398,611 1.30
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 30,990,073 –
In 2013, the Committee reviewed the executive directors’ 
remuneration to ensure that it remained in line with the Group’s 
remuneration policy and continued to support sustainable long-term 
value for shareholders. Following this review, the Committee 
consulted major shareholders in the summer of 2013, as referred to 
on page 67. Although many shareholders supported the Committee’s 
proposals, some expressed concerns about certain of them. 
Following this feedback, a number of revisions were made to the 
original proposals, including:
• Phasing the salary increases for the finance director and the 
chief operating officer over two years;
• Making no change to the annual bonus opportunity (which 
remained at 100% of salary); and
• Increasing the executive director shareholding guidelines to 
200% of salary.
Despite these changes, however, certain shareholders (with a total 
number of shares of 7,270,027, representing approximately 13% of 
the issued share capital at the time) voted against the directors’ 
remuneration report at the 2013 annual general meeting. 
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
85
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Introduction 
The directors present their annual report and audited financial 
statements as at, and for the year ended, 30 June 2014. 
The directors’ report, together with the strategic report and other 
sections from the annual report, which are incorporated by 
reference, collectively comprise the ‘management report’, for 
the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.5R.
Results and dividends 
The Group’s profit for the year after taxation and exceptional items 
was £10.7m (2013: £25.6m*). An interim dividend of 22.5p per share 
(2013: 21.5p), amounting to £12.3m (2013: £8.5m), was paid on 
16 May 2014. The directors propose a final dividend of 49.5p per 
share (2013: 46.5p per share), amounting to £27.1m (2013: £25.0m), 
payable on 28 November 2014 to shareholders on the register 
of members on 26 September 2014.
Future developments
An indication of the likely future developments of the business of 
the Company is set out in the strategic report on pages 1 to 51 
(inclusive) and is incorporated by reference in this report.
Directors 
The names of the directors of the Company during the reporting 
period are set out on page 58. Biographical details of the directors 
of the Company are shown on pages 54 and 55. Details of directors’ 
interests in the Company’s shares are disclosed in the directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 67 to 85 (inclusive). 
Qualifying third party indemnities 
The articles of association of the Company (‘the Articles’) entitle the 
directors of the Company, to the extent permitted by the Companies 
Act 2006 and other applicable legislation (together, ‘the Companies 
Acts’), to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company in the event 
that they suffer any expenses in connection with certain proceedings 
relating to the execution of their duties as directors of the Company.
In addition, and in common with many other companies, the 
Company has insurance for its directors and officers to cover certain 
losses or liabilities to which they may be exposed due to their office. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code 
A statement on the Group’s corporate governance is set out on 
pages 56 to 59 (inclusive) and is incorporated by reference into 
this report. 
Going concern 
The going concern statement is set out on page 51 and is 
incorporated by reference into this report. 
Political donations 
No political donations were made during the year (2013: nil).
Financial instruments 
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies 
of the Group, together with its exposure to material financial risks, 
are set out in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Research and development 
The Group undertakes research and development activity in creating 
innovative construction techniques and designs for its projects. 
The direct expenditure incurred is not separately identifiable, 
as the investment is usually made within the relevant project. 
* Restated figure, as per note 31 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
Employees
The companies in the Group are equal opportunities employers. 
The Group gives consideration to applications for employment made 
by disabled persons (having regard to their particular aptitudes and 
abilities) and encourages and assists, whenever practicable, the 
recruitment, training, career development and promotion of disabled 
people and the retention of, and appropriate training for, those who 
become disabled during the course of their employment and who can 
be employed in a safe working environment. The Group’s approach to 
employee involvement, equal opportunities, health and safety and the 
environment is set out in the resources, relationships and sustainability 
report on pages 28 to 31 (inclusive) and is incorporated by reference 
into this report.
The Group provides relevant information on matters of concern 
to employees through newsletters, video addresses, the Group’s 
intranet, social media and formal and informal meetings with various 
groups of employees and management. These aim to create a 
common awareness on the part of employees on matters affecting 
the performance of the Group. The Group also consults with 
employees to ascertain their views in relation to decisions which 
are likely to affect their interests. An example of this is the employee 
engagement survey which took place during the year.
The Group operates the Kier Group plc 2006 Sharesave Scheme 
(‘the Sharesave Scheme’) for eligible employees and makes available 
a dealing service to enable employees to buy and sell its shares with a 
minimum of formality. The Group also operates an all employee share 
ownership plan (‘the AESOP’) for all employees, which includes a 
share-matching element. 
In addition, as a result of the acquisition of May Gurney, the Group 
operates the May Gurney Savings Related Share Option Scheme, 
which is similar to the Sharesave Scheme. The existing May Gurney 
shares in this scheme were exchanged by participants for new options 
over shares in the capital of the Company. 
Greenhouse gas emissions
Information relating to the greenhouse gas emissions of the 
Company is set out on page 29 and is incorporated by reference 
into this report.
Share capital 
As at 30 June 2014, the issued share capital of the Company 
comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 1p each. At that date, 
55,264,354 shares in the capital of the Company were in issue. 
During the year, 491,764 shares were issued in relation to the scrip 
dividend alternative, 210,073 shares were issued in connection 
with the Sharesave Scheme and 14,714,445 shares were issued 
under a scheme of arrangement in relation to the acquisition of 
May Gurney Integrated Services Public Limited Company. As at 
17 September 2014, 55,390,767 shares in the capital of the 
Company were in issue. Details of the Company’s share capital 
are set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and the Companies Acts, 
shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the 
Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, if the Company 
has not so determined, as the directors may decide. 
Directors’ report 
86
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Restrictions on transfer of securities 
in the Company 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the 
Company, except: 
• That certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by law 
or regulation (for example, insider trading laws); and 
• Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(‘the Listing Rules’), whereby certain employees require approval 
to deal in the Company’s shares. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of 
securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities 
in the Company. 
Substantial voting rights 
As at 17 September 2014, the Company had been notified of the 
following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company 
(being voting rights over such share capital), pursuant to Rule 5.1 
of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: 
Shareholder Interest¹
Standard Life Investments Limited 7.9%
Schroders plc 5.4%
Blackrock Inc. 5.0%
Norges Bank 4.0%
1 
Subject to rounding.
Securities carrying special rights 
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights 
with regard to control of the Company. 
Rights under employees’ share schemes 
As at 30 June 2014, RBC Trustees (Guernsey) Limited (‘RBC’), as 
trustee of the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust (‘the Trust’), 
held 349,484 shares (0.63% of the issued share capital of the 
Company as at that date) on trust for the benefit of the employees 
of the Group. The Trust was established for the purposes of 
satisfying awards of shares made to individuals under the 
Group’s remuneration and long-term incentive arrangements. 
During the year, RBC waived the dividends payable in respect of 
these shares, but either received the dividends in respect of shares 
to which certain directors and senior managers are beneficially 
entitled as a result of their annual bonus being satisfied in part by 
an allocation of shares or elected to take up the scrip dividend with 
respect to these shares, as requested by the participants. RBC, in 
turn, transferred the dividends or allocated additional shares to the 
relevant directors and senior managers. 
As at 30 June 2014, Computershare Investor Services PLC held 
865,616 shares (approximately 1.57% of the issued share capital 
of the Company as at that date) on trust for the benefit of staff and 
former staff who are members of the AESOP. 
As at 30 June 2014, the trustee of the May Gurney Limited 
Employee Share Ownership Trust and the trustee of the May Gurney 
Integrated Services plc Employee Benefit Trust held, respectively, 
226,115 and 161,193 shares in the capital of the Company 
(together, 387,308 shares representing approximately 0.70% of the 
issued share capital of the Company as at that date) on trust for the 
benefit of employees of May Gurney. Both trusts were established 
for the purposes of satisfying awards of shares to individuals under 
May Gurney’s remuneration and long-term incentive arrangements. 
During the year, the trustees waived the dividends payable in 
respect of these shares.
Voting 
Subject to any terms upon which the relevant shares may have been 
issued or are subject and to the Articles, every member present in 
person or by proxy at a general meeting and entitled to vote has, 
upon a show of hands, one vote and, upon a poll, one vote for every 
share held. In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the 
senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will 
be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders 
and, for this purpose, seniority will be determined by the order in 
which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding. 
Restrictions on voting rights 
No member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, be 
entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect of any share held 
by it unless all calls or other sums then payable by it in respect of 
that share have been paid or if that member has been served with 
a disenfranchisement notice (as defined in the Articles) after failure 
to provide the Company with information concerning interests in 
that share required to be provided under the Companies Acts. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of 
securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights. 
Appointment and replacement of directors 
The directors shall be not less than three and not more than 12 in 
number. The Company may by ordinary resolution vary the minimum 
and/or maximum number of directors. 
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution 
or by the Board. A director appointed by the Board holds office only 
until the next annual general meeting of the Company after his/her 
appointment and is then eligible to stand for election. 
Pursuant to the Articles, at every annual general meeting 
of the Company, one-third of the directors who are subject to the 
requirement to retire by rotation (not including any director who was 
appointed by the Board and is standing for election) will retire from 
office and may offer themselves for re-election by the members. The 
directors to retire by rotation will be those who have been longest in 
office since their last election. However, at the forthcoming annual 
general meeting of the Company, notwithstanding the provisions of 
the Articles, all the directors will offer themselves for re-election in 
accordance with The UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The Company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has 
been given, remove any director before the expiry of the director’s 
period of office. The office of a director will be vacated if: 
• The director becomes bankrupt or the subject of an interim 
receiving order or makes any arrangement or composition with his 
creditors generally or applies to the court for an interim order in 
connection with a voluntary arrangement under the Insolvency Act 
1986; 
• The director is certified as having become physically or mentally 
incapable of acting as a director and may remain so for more than 
three months; 
• The director ceases to be a director by virtue of the Companies 
Acts or becomes prohibited by law from being a director; 
• The director receives written notice from not less than three-
quarters of the other directors removing the director from office; 
or 
• In the case of a director who holds executive office, the director 
ceases to hold such office and the majority of the other directors 
resolve that the relevant director’s office be vacated. 
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
87
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ report  
continued
Amendment of Articles 
The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders. 
Powers of the directors 
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given 
by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company 
will be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of 
the Company. 
Powers in relation to the Company issuing 
its shares 
The directors were granted authority at the annual general meeting 
on 14 November 2013 to allot shares in the Company in accordance 
with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (i) up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £182,403 and (ii) up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £364,806 in connection with a rights issue. The directors 
were also granted authority to allot shares non-pre-emptively and 
wholly for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of £27,360. 
In addition, at the same annual general meeting, an ordinary 
resolution was approved which grants the directors the authority to 
continue to offer the scrip dividend alternative. In accordance with 
the requirements of investor protection committees, this authority 
is renewed every five years. 
Powers in relation to the Company buying back 
its shares 
The Company may only buy back shares if the Articles do not prohibit 
it from doing so and it has received the requisite authority from 
shareholders in general meeting. Although the Articles do not 
contain any such prohibition, the Company did not request any such 
authority at its last annual general meeting and does not propose to 
do so at the forthcoming annual general meeting. 
Change of control 
The Company has entered into certain agreements that may take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid. The significant agreements in this 
respect are: 
• The Company’s £120m revolving credit facility agreement dated 
31 May 2012 entered into with HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank 
plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Santander UK plc; 
• The Company’s £30m term facility agreement dated 11 January 
2013 entered into with Lloyds TSB Bank plc; 
• The Company’s £50m term loan facility and £70m revolving credit 
facility agreement dated 22 April 2013 entered into with HSBC 
Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and 
Santander UK plc (together with the £120m and £30m facility 
agreements, ‘the Facility Agreements’); 
• The Company’s £45m and $28m note purchase agreement dated 
20 December 2012 (‘the Note Purchase Agreement’); and 
• Certain of the Group’s employee share schemes. 
Each of the Facility Agreements includes a provision under which, 
in the event of a change of control of the Company, the lenders may 
cancel all or any part of the relevant facility and/or declare that all 
amounts outstanding under the relevant facility are immediately 
due and payable by the Company. 
The Note Purchase Agreement includes a provision under 
which, in the event of a change of control of the Company, the 
Company is obliged to offer to prepay the notes issued pursuant 
to the agreement. 
Outstanding options granted under the Sharesave Scheme and the 
May Gurney Savings Related Share Option Scheme may be exercised 
within a period of six months from a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid (or will lapse upon the expiry of such a period). 
Awards granted under the Group’s long-term incentive plan (which 
is described in the directors’ remuneration report) may vest on a 
change of control of the Company following a takeover bid and the 
maximum number of shares in the Company to be awarded upon 
such vesting may become immediately due. 
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors 
providing for compensation for loss of office that occurs as a result 
of a takeover bid. 
Auditor 
The Board has decided that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will 
be proposed as the Group’s auditor for the financial year ending 
30 June 2015 and a resolution relating to this appointment will 
be tabled at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Each director who holds office at the date of approval of this directors’ 
report confirms that, so far as each such director is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware; and the 
directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as 
directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information. 
Annual general meeting 
The annual general meeting of the Company will be held  
at 12 noon at the Andaz Hotel, 40 Liverpool Street, London, 
EC2M 7QN on 13 November 2014. 
This report was approved by the Board on 17 September 2014 
and signed on its behalf by: 
Hugh Raven 
Company Secretary
Tempsford Hall  
Sandy  
Bedfordshire  
SG19 2BD 
88
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the 
Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare the Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law, they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union (‘IFRS’) and applicable law and have 
elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (‘UK 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice’). 
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of 
their profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial 
statements, the directors are required to: 
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently; 
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; 
• For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU; 
• For the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
company financial statements; and 
• Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a directors’ report, a directors’ remuneration 
report and a corporate governance statement that comply with that 
law and those regulations. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions. 
Directors’ responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation as 
a whole; 
• The directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face; and
• The annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
Signed on behalf of the Board by: 
Haydn Mursell
Chief Executive
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 
89
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 90
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Kier Group plc only 
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Kier Group plc for the 
year ended 30 June 2014 which comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, 
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated 
and Company Balance Sheet; and, the Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement and related notes. In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 June 
2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, 
the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit were as follows:
Profit recognition on Contracts
Refer to page 63 (Risk Management and Audit Committee Report), 
page 98 (accounting policy) and page 104 (financial disclosures).
• The risk: The Group has significant long-term contracts in both 
the Construction and Services divisions. The recognition of profit 
on construction and long-term services contracts in accordance 
with IAS 11 is based on the stage of completion of contract 
activity. This is assessed by reference to the proportion of contract 
costs incurred for the work performed at the balance sheet date 
relative to the estimated total costs of the contract at completion.
Profit on contracts is a key risk for our audit because of the 
judgement involved in preparing suitable estimates of the forecast 
costs and revenue on contracts. An error in the contract forecast 
could result in a material variance in the amount of profit or loss 
recognised to date and therefore also in the current period.
The forecast profit on contracts includes key judgements over the 
expected recovery of costs arising from the following: variations 
to the contract requested by the customer, compensation events, 
and claims made against the contractor for delays or other 
additional costs for which the customer is liable. The inclusion 
of these amounts in the contract forecast where they are not 
recoverable could result in a material error in the level of profit 
or loss recognised by the Group.
The inclusion of these amounts in the contract forecast where they 
are not recoverable could result in a material error in the level of 
profit or loss recognised by the Group.
• Our response: We used a variety of quantitative and qualitative 
factors to select those contracts with a higher risk of material 
error based on their size or the complexity of contract accounting 
estimates for detailed testing. Our audit procedures included but 
were not limited to:
 – assessing whether the amounts recognised in the financial 
statements were in line with the Group’s accounting policy, 
including relevant accounting standards, and whether they 
represented a balanced view of the risks and opportunities in 
respect of the forecast profit to completion. We challenged 
senior operational, commercial and financial management’s 
judgement by obtaining and assessing information to support 
the forecast assumptions. These assumptions included the 
expected recovery of variations, claims and compensation 
events included in the forecast, and the historical financial 
performance and forecast out-turn against budget of other 
contracts of a similar nature and size and industry knowledge;
 – inspecting correspondence and meeting minutes with 
customers concerning variations, claims and compensation 
events, and obtaining third party assessments of these from 
legal or technical experts contracted by the Group, if applicable 
to assess whether this information was consistent with the 
estimates made by senior operational, commercial and financial 
management, including any pain/gain share arising as a result 
of the recognition of compensation events in the forecast 
contract outcome. Where legal or technical experts were 
contracted by the Group and we sought to use the work of 
that expert, we evaluated the professional competence and 
objectivity of the expert;
 – performing site visits to physically inspect the stage of completion 
of certain individual projects and identify areas of complexity 
through observation and discussion with site personnel;
 – inspecting the selected signed contracts for key clauses to 
identify relevant contractual mechanisms such as the sharing 
of cost overruns or efficiencies with the customer, contractual 
damages and success fees and assess whether these key 
clauses have been appropriately reflected in the amounts 
included in the forecasts;
 – inspecting correspondence and meeting minutes with insurers 
relating to recognised insurance claims as well as assessments 
of these undertaken by the insurer’s and Group’s legal or 
technical experts where applicable to assess whether this 
information supported the position taken on the contract;
 – evaluating a sample of forecast costs for reasonableness by 
reviewing the basis of their calculation, which included supplier 
quotes, forecast estimates and supplier contracts and 
challenging senior operational, commercial and financial 
management where there were differences to identify forecast 
errors, including inappropriate assumptions based on historical 
performance and industry knowledge;
 – considering the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect of 
the judgements taken with respect to profit recognition and the key 
risks relating to these amounts and to any individually significant 
contracts, including specifically the Castlepoint contract.
Valuation of land and stock units
Refer to page 63 (Risk Management and Audit Committee Report), 
page 101 (accounting policy) and pages 119 (financial disclosures)
• The risk: Inventories, which principally comprise the Group’s land 
held for development and work in progress, are stated at the lower 
of cost and net realisable value (i.e. the forecast selling price less 
the remaining costs to build and sell). An assessment of the net 
realisable value of inventory is carried out at each balance sheet 
date and is dependent upon the Group’s estimate of forecast 
selling prices and build costs (by reference to current prices), 
which may require significant judgement. Further, build costs are 
subject to a number of variables including the accuracy of designs, 
market conditions in respect of materials and sub-contractor cost 
and construction issues. Accordingly, a change in the Group’s 
forecast estimate of sales price and build cost could have a 
material impact on the carrying value of inventories in the Group’s 
financial statements. Whilst residential values are generally 
improving, there remains a risk that residential and development 
projects are valued at cost exceeding recoverable value.
• Our response: For land held for development, our audit work was 
focused on sites where gross margin was forecast to be less than 
10% for inventory sales because these sites are considered to 
have the most sensitivity to management’s estimates. Our audit 
procedures included, among others:
 – challenging the Group’s forecast sales prices by comparing the 
forecast sales price of a sample of inventory to sales prices 
achieved and the list prices of comparable assets as published 
by estate agents; Financial statements
91
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
 – challenging the Group’s forecast of build cost per square foot by 
comparing to the build costs for similar units on other sites and 
where there were differences, corroborating senior operational, 
commercial and financial management’s explanations to third 
party confirmations including correspondence with suppliers 
and comparable properties on other sites.
For work in progress, our audit work was focused using quantitative 
factors and where cost versus net realisable value headroom was 
considered to have the most sensitivity to management’s estimates 
in calculating net realisable value. Our audit procedures included, 
among others:
 – discussing significant work in progress balances with relevant 
project managers to identify the key drivers behind appraisal 
forecasts and net realisable values such as forecast yields and 
cost plans;
 – challenging management’s key assumptions relating to 
estimated sales revenue and costs by comparing the forecast 
yields applied to comparable market evidence including 
evaluating the sensitivity of the margin to a change in sales 
prices and costs and considering whether this indicated a risk 
of impairment where required. For projects involving large sites 
or split across multiple phases, we assessed the 
appropriateness of the allocation of site-wide or project-wide 
costs.
We also assessed the disclosures on page 119 regarding the key 
judgements and estimates in determining net realisable value of 
land and work in progress.
Assessment of the fair value provisions arising on the May 
Gurney acquisition
Refer to page 63 (Risk Management and Audit Committee Report), 
page 103 (accounting policy) and pages 130 (financial disclosures).
• The risk: In July 2013, the Group acquired May Gurney for a total 
consideration of £222m. Accounting for this significant acquisition 
involved recognition and measurement of assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed as part of the acquisition. The acquisition was 
an non-adjusting post balance sheet event per IAS 10, but the 
2013 financial statements disclosed the initial accounting for the 
acquisition. Due to the proximity of the timing of the acquisition to 
the reporting date, the acquisition accounting was incomplete. 
During the year ended 30 June 2014, the Group became aware of 
additional information about facts and circumstances that existed 
at the acquisition date. As such a number of measurement period 
adjustments were made to the provisional amounts, the most 
material adjustments relating to contract provisions.
The measurement of the fair value of contract provisions for the 
May Gurney acquisition involved significant judgements in relation 
to the assumptions applied to forecasting and discounting future 
cash flows. Due to the inherent uncertainties in timing and 
quantities of these future cash flows, particularly the quantity of 
annual spend on specific contracts and the outcome of any 
claims, which form an integral part of the fair value model, this is 
one of the key judgemental areas that our audit concentrated on.
• Our response: Our audit procedures over the acquisition date fair 
values, and particularly in relation to the off-market contract 
provision, included but were not limited to:
 – discussing with senior operational, commercial and financial 
management and challenge of the contract assumptions and 
judgements, such as profitability, claims and cash flow timings, 
used to determine the carrying amount of the fair value model;
 – assessing the completeness and quantum of adjustments 
made by management against our own expectations, formed 
from review of the due diligence reports prepared during the 
acquisition, an independent report on fair values prepared 
post-acquisition for management, our understanding of May 
Gurney’s particular circumstances from the audit, and our 
knowledge and experience of the industry and understanding of 
May Gurney’s particular circumstances;
 – comparing the Group’s assumptions to externally derived data 
as well as our own assessments in relation to key inputs such 
as projected economic growth and cost inflation, in addition to 
testing the sensitivity of the values produced by the model to 
changes in certain inputs and assumptions, in order to derive 
comfort over the principles underpinning the model;
 – performing procedures over the integrity of the design and build 
of the model, including verifying that formulae worked as 
intended; and
 – considering the adequacy of disclosures made to allow users to 
evaluate the financial effects of adjustments recognised.
Carrying amount of goodwill in relation to the May Gurney 
acquisition
Refer to page 63 (Risk Management and Audit Committee Report), 
page 103 (accounting policy) and pages 115 (financial disclosures).
• The risk: As detailed in Note 12 of the financial statements, the 
Group’s key Cash Generating Units (CGUs) are Construction, 
Services and Property. The majority of the Group’s goodwill is in 
relation to the acquisition of May Gurney Integrated Services 
Public Limited Company. The majority (97%) of goodwill recognised 
from the acquisition of May Gurney has been allocated to the 
Services division with the remainder (3%) allocated to the 
Construction division. The Group goodwill impairment testing is 
performed with reference to value in use which is measured by the 
present value of the cash flow forecasts expected to be derived in 
the respective CGUs.
The services industry has experienced rising costs, local authority 
budget cuts / moving services back in-house and more 
competitive pricing in the market. This, coupled with subdued 
demand due to the economic recession in recent times has 
resulted in a depressed growth environment. Therefore there is a 
risk that sufficient cash flows will not be generated within the 
Services CGU to support the carrying amount of goodwill.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and 
discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the 
assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental 
areas that our audit concentrated on.
• Our response: In this area our audit procedures included, among 
others, testing of the principles and integrity of the Group’s 
discounted cash flow model. We did this by agreeing key inputs 
such as contract renewal dates, capital and operating costs and 
profitability to underlying contracts, our knowledge of the Group 
and industry and historical outcomes. We also assessed the 
probability of contracts being won, renewed or lost through 
discussion with the directors.
We challenged the appropriateness of key assumptions used by 
the Group in impairment testing (discount rate, growth rate, and 
inflation) by comparing these to externally available market data 
for reasonableness. We performed a sensitivity analysis for the 
key assumptions which included growth rate, operating costs and 
discount rate. We also assessed whether or not the assumptions 
showed any evidence of management bias with a particular focus 
on the risk that the cash flow forecasts may not support the 
carrying value of goodwill.
We considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures and the 
requirements of accounting standards in respect of impairment 
testing, disclosure of sensitivity of the headroom to key 
assumptions and disclosure of the key judgments taken by 
management in the cash flow forecasts and impairment review. 92
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Presentation of non-underlying amounts
Refer to page 63 (Risk Management and Audit Committee Report), 
page 103 (accounting policy) and page 106 (financial disclosures).
• The risk: In order to give a better understanding of the underlying 
performance of the business, management have presented a view 
of the underlying results of the Group, with separate disclosure of 
‘non-underlying items’. There is a risk that items are included 
within this caption not in accordance with clearly disclosed Group 
accounting policies and relevant accounting standards, and 
therefore the ‘underlying’ result is misstated, and that the items 
included here are not clearly set out or are inconsistently included, 
and therefore the ‘underlying’ result is not understandable.
• Our response: In this area our audit procedures included but 
were not limited to:
 – Considering whether the Group finance team have consistently 
identified non-underlying items by comparing the nature of 
current year items with those included within the caption in 
prior years;
 – Critically assessing the consistency and presentation of specific 
items taking into account the Group’s policy;
 – Considering the appropriateness, by reference to accounting 
standards, of the individual items presented within non-underlying 
items and therefore excluded from underlying items; and
 – Considering the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures about the 
items included within this caption in note 4 (non-underlying 
items) and the related accounting policies for these categories 
on page 106.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the 
scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was 
set at £3.9m. This has been determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group profit before taxation excluding non-underlying 
items (of which it represents 6.3 %) which we consider to be one of 
the principal considerations for members of the Company in 
assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Risk Management and Audit Committee to report 
to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified 
through our audit with a value in excess of £195,000, in addition to 
other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
• Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by 
component auditors at the key reporting components in the UK 
and by the Group audit team in the UK. These Group procedures 
covered 97% of total Group revenue. The segment disclosures in 
note 2 set out the individual significance of specific segments.
• The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key 
reporting components of the Group were all performed to 
materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team. 
These materiality levels were set individually for each component 
and ranged from £0.45m to £3.9m.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
• The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006;
• The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set 
out on page 56 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the 
financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters 
on which we are required to report by exception
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based 
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified 
other information in the annual report that contains a material 
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, 
a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ 
statement that they consider that the annual report and financial 
statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Risk Management and Audit Committee Report does not 
appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Risk 
Management and Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• The parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
• We have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
• A Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by 
the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• The directors’ statement, set out on page 89, in relation to going 
concern;
• The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 56 
relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our 
review; and
• We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 89, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of 
accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website 
at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely 
to the Company’s members as a body and is subject to important 
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published 
on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which 
are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read 
to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we 
have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Michael Froom (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP,  
Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square 
London 
E14 5GL
17 September 2014
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Kier Group plc only continued 93
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 30 June 2014
2014 2013
Notes
Underlying 
items
£m
Non-
underlying 
items
including
amortisation
of intangible
contract
rights* 
£m
Total 
£m
Underlying 
items*
†
 £m
Non-
underlying 
items
including
amortisation
of intangible
contract
rights* 
£m
Total
†
 £m
Revenue
Group and share of joint ventures 2 2,985.2 – 2,985.2 1,982.8 – 1,982.8
Less share of joint ventures 2 (30.9) – (30.9) (39.8) – (39.8)
Group revenue 2,954.3 – 2,954.3 1,943.0 – 1,943.0
Cost of sales (2,699.5) (3.5) (2,703.0) (1,739.8) (9.4) (1,749.2)
Gross profit 254.8 (3.5) 251.3 203.2 (9.4) 193.8
Administrative expenses (174.5) (49.5) (224.0) (158.4) (11.0) (169.4)
Share of post-tax results of joint 
ventures 14 1.6 – 1.6 0.9 – 0.9
Profit on disposal of joint ventures 30d 6.1 – 6.1 9.8 – 9.8
Profit from operations 2 88.0 (53.0) 35.0 55.5 (20.4) 35.1
Finance income 5 2.2 – 2.2 2.3 – 2.3
Finance cost 5 (17.1) (5.3) (22.4) (10.2) (1.3) (11.5)
Profit before tax 2 73.1 (58.3) 14.8 47.6 (21.7) 25.9
Taxation 9a (13.9) 9.8 (4.1) (5.1) 4.8 (0.3)
Profit for the year 59.2 (48.5) 10.7 42.5 (16.9) 25.6
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 58.5 (48.5) 10.0 41.5 (16.9) 24.6
Non-controlling interests 12 0.7 – 0.7 1.0 – 1.0
59.2 (48.5) 10.7 42.5 (16.9) 25.6
Earnings per share
 – basic 11 107.7p (89.3)p 18.4p 105.6p (43.0)p 62.6p
 – diluted 11 106.9p (88.6)p 18.3p 104.5p (42.5)p 62.0p
*
 Non-underlying items include one-off costs related to restructuring, acquisitions and business closures, amortisation of contract right costs held 
as intangibles on the balance sheet and unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition. 
The prior year comparatives have been re-presented to reflect this presentation (see note 4). 
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31).
  94
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 30 June 2014
Notes
2014 
£m
2013
†
 
£m
Profit for the year 10.7 25.6
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement
Currency translation differences (4.0) 0.2
Share of joint venture fair value movements in cash flow hedging instruments 14 15.1 4.7
Tax on share of joint venture fair value movements in cash flow hedging instruments 9c (3.6) (1.7)
Fair value movements in cash flow hedging instruments (1.7) – 
Tax on fair value movements in cash flow hedging instruments
9c 0.3 – 
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement 6.1 3.2
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement
Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities 8 (18.7) (7.1)
Tax on actuarial losses on defined benefit liabilities 9c (4.9) (1.2)
Tax on provisions 9c (1.9) –
Total items that will not be reclassified to the income statement (25.5) (8.3)
Other comprehensive loss for the year (19.4) (5.1)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (8.7) 20.5
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent (9.4) 19.5
Non-controlling interests 0.7 1.0
  (8.7) 20.5
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 June 2014
Share 
capital
£m 
Share
 premium 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
 £m
Retained 
earnings
 £m
Cash flow 
hedge
 reserve 
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Attributable 
to owners of
 the parent 
£m
 Non-
controlling
interests 
£m
Total
 equity 
£m
At 30 June 2012 0.4 55.0 2.7 110.0 (16.0) 0.2 – 152.3 1.9 154.2
Profit for the year – – – 24.6
†
– – – 24.6
†
1.0 25.6
†
Other comprehensive 
(loss)/income – – – (8.3)
†
3.0 0.2 – (5.1)
†
– (5.1)
†
Dividends paid – – – (25.8) – – – (25.8) (0.4) (26.2)
Issue of own shares – 8.3 – – – – – 8.3 – 8.3
Purchase of own shares – – – (1.7) – – – (1.7) – (1.7)
Share-based payments – – – 4.0 – – – 4.0 – 4.0
Tax on share-based 
payments – – – (0.8) – – – (0.8) – (0.8)
At 30 June 2013 0.4 63.3 2.7 102.0 (13.0) 0.4 – 155.8 2.5 158.3
Profit for year – – – 10.0 – – – 10.0 0.7 10.7
Other comprehensive 
(loss)/income – – – (25.5) 10.1 (4.0) – (19.4) – (19.4)
Dividends paid – – – (37.3) – – – (37.3) (0.2) (37.5)
Issue of own shares 0.2 10.4 – – – – 183.6 194.2 – 194.2
Purchase of own shares – – – (1.1) – – – (1.1) – (1.1)
Share-based payments – – – 4.0 – – – 4.0 – 4.0
Tax on share-based 
payments – – – 0.5 – – – 0.5 – 0.5
Transfers – – – (1.2) – – 1.2 – – –
At 30 June 2014 0.6 73.7 2.7 51.4 (2.9) (3.6) 184.8 306.7 3.0 309.7
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31). 95
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
At 30 June 2014
 Notes
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 323.8 30.0
Property, plant and equipment 13 192.4 109.2
Investment in joint ventures 14 40.9 29.7
Deferred tax assets 15 1.8 23.5
Trade and other receivables 18 23.5 29.6
Non-current assets 582.4 222.0
Current assets
Inventories 16 470.4 399.4
Trade and other receivables 18 586.4 345.6
Corporation tax receivable 7.5 9.3
Assets held for sale 19 10.4 4.2
Cash and cash equivalents 20 112.4 152.3
Current assets 1,187.1 910.8
Total assets 1,769.5 1,132.8
Current liabilities
Borrowings 20 (39.8) – 
Finance lease obligations 21 (27.6) (2.7)
Other financial liabilities 27 (0.1) (0.1)
Trade and other payables 22 (982.7) (754.5)
Provisions 23 (27.9) (17.6)
Current liabilities (1,078.1) (774.9)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 (195.4) (92.5)
Finance lease obligations 21 (59.4) (11.0)
Other financial liabilities 27 (2.0) (0.5)
Trade and other payables 22 (9.3) (6.1)
Retirement benefit obligations 8 (59.8) (49.7)
Provisions 23 (55.8) (39.8)
Non-current liabilities (381.7) (199.6)
Total liabilities (1,459.8) (974.5)
Net assets 2 309.7 158.3
Equity
Share capital 24 0.6 0.4
Share premium 73.7 63.3
Capital redemption reserve 2.7 2.7
Retained earnings 51.4 102.0
Cash flow hedge reserve 24 (2.9) (13.0)
Translation reserve 24 (3.6) 0.4
Merger reserve 24 184.8 –
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 306.7 155.8
Non-controlling interests 3.0 2.5
Total equity 309.7 158.3
The financial statements on pages 93 to 138 were approved by the Board of directors on 17 September 2014 and were signed on its behalf by:
Haydn Mursell 
Director 96
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
 Notes
2014 
£m
2013
 £m
Cash flows from operating activities 
Profit before tax 14.8 25.9
†
Exceptional items 4 42.2 17.0
Net finance cost 5 20.2 9.2
Share of post-tax trading results of joint ventures 14 (1.6) (0.9)
Normal cash contributions to pension fund in excess of pension charge 1.3 2.0
†
Equity settled share-based payments charge 25 4.0 4.0
Negative goodwill recognised, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 10.8 4.3
Depreciation charges 13 41.5 12.7
Profit on disposal of joint ventures 30d (6.1) (9.8)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (4.5) (1.7)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 122.6 62.7
Special contributions to pension fund (8.0) (20.1)
Increase in inventories (7.0) (4.7)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (156.3) 35.2
Increase/(decrease) in payables 96.3 (69.0)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (31.7) 1.6
Cash inflow from operating activities before exceptional items 15.9 5.7
Cash flow from exceptional items (35.6) (11.0)
Cash flows from operating activities (19.7) (5.3)
Dividends received from joint ventures 14 0.3 0.2
Interest received 2.2 2.3
Income taxes received 11.3 3.5
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities (5.9) 0.7
Cash flows from investing activities 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 6.0 2.9
Proceeds from sale of joint ventures 30d 17.3 13.0
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (48.2) (22.1)
Purchase of intangible assets 12 (6.2) (5.5)
Investment in assets held for resale (4.0) – 
Acquisition of subsidiaries 30a (65.6) (31.5)
Net investment in joint ventures (11.7) (19.2)
Overdraft acquired 30b (16.8) – 
Net cash used in investing activities before exceptional disposal proceeds (129.2) (62.4)
Exceptional proceeds on disposal of plant business net of disposal costs 30e 4.2 13.0
Net cash used in investing activities (125.0) (49.4)
Cash flows from financing activities 
Issue of shares 24 2.2 7.0
Purchase of own shares (1.1) (1.7)
Interest paid (14.2) (5.8)
Inflow from finance leases on property, plant and equipment 21 40.3 6.6
Inflow from new borrowings 102.9 92.5
Finance lease repayments 21 (29.6) (1.5)
Repayment of borrowings (20.0) (30.3)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (29.1) (24.5)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (0.2) (0.4)
Net cash generated by financing activities 51.2 41.9
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (79.7) (6.8)
Opening cash and cash equivalents 152.3 159.1
Closing cash and cash equivalents 20 72.6 152.3
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31).
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 30 June 2014 Financial statements
97
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014
1 Significant accounting policies
Kier Group plc (the Company) is a Company domiciled in the 
United Kingdom (UK) and incorporated in England and Wales. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year 
ended 30 June 2014 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together referred to as the Group) and the Group’s interest in joint 
arrangements.
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the 
directors on 15 September 2014.
Statement of compliance
The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
and approved by the directors in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union 
(IFRS) and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation 
and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable 
to companies reporting under IFRS. The Group has applied all 
accounting standards issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB) and interpretations issued by the 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee as 
adopted by the European Union and effective for accounting periods 
beginning on 1 July 2013.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (GAAP). These are presented on pages 133 to 135.
Basis of preparation
The Group has considerable financial resources, long-term contracts 
and a diverse range of customers and suppliers across its business 
activities.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern  
basis in preparing the Group’s financial statements.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling. They 
have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative 
financial instruments which are stated at their fair value.
The following amendments to standards or interpretations are 
effective for the first time for the financial year ended 30 June 2014:
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase in a 
surface mine
IAS 19R Employee Benefits
Amendments to 
IFRS 7
Financial Instruments: Disclosures (Offsetting 
financial assets and financial liabilities)
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation (Offsetting 
financial assets and financial liabilities)
The adoption of IAS 19R has resulted in a representation of the 
accounting for defined benefit pension schemes, but with no overall 
impact on the pension deficit (see note 31).
The following new standards and amendments to standards have 
been issued, but are only effective for the financial year ended 
30 June 2015 onwards:
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets (Recoverable amount 
disclosures for non-financial assets)
The following new standards and amendments to standards have 
been issued, but the effective dates are currently undetermined as 
they have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
The directors have considered the impact of these new standards 
and interpretations in future periods. The Group awaits the final 
publication of the new IFRS standard ‘Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers’ which is expected to be published imminently. The new 
standard will replace IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11 ‘Construction 
Contracts’. It will become effective for accounting periods on or after 
1 January 2017 at the earliest and will therefore be applied for the 
first time to the Group accounts in 30 June 2018; the IASB has 
indicated that early adoption will be permitted. The Group has begun 
a systematic review of all existing major contracts to ensure that the 
impact and effect of the new standard is fully understood and 
changes to the current accounting procedures are highlighted and 
acted upon in advance of the effective date.
Other than the impact of IFRS 15 as noted above, no significant net 
impact from the adoption of these new standards is expected. The 
Group has chosen not to adopt any of the above standards and 
interpretations earlier than required.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in 
dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Group’s financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of the Company and subsidiaries controlled by the 
Company drawn up to 30 June 2014. Control exists when the Group 
has direct or indirect power to govern the financial and operating 
policies of an entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its 
activities. Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date that control transfers to the Group until 
the date that control ceases.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 
method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which  
control is transferred to the Group. Control is the power to govern  
the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the Group takes  
into consideration potential voting rights that currently are 
exercisable.
If a business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date 
carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the 
acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date; any 
gains or losses arising from such remeasurements are recognised in 
profit or loss. 98
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
1 Significant accounting policies continued 
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures 
goodwill at the acquisition date as:
• The fair value of the consideration transferred; plus 
• The recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the 
acquiree; plus
• If the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value  
of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less
• The net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the result is negative, a ‘bargain purchase’ gain is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss. 
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised 
within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related 
to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts  
are generally recognised in the income statement. Costs related to 
the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt  
or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a 
business combination are expensed as incurred. Any contingent 
consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition 
date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent 
consideration are recognised in the income statement unless  
the contingent consideration is classified as equity, in which  
case settlement is accounted for within reserves.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are adjusted where necessary to 
ensure consistency with those used by the Group. All intra-Group 
transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on 
consolidation.
(b) Joint arrangements
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group 
undertakes an economic activity that is subject to joint control  
with third parties.
The Group’s interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the 
equity method. Under this method the Group’s share of the profits 
less losses of jointly controlled entities is included in the consolidated 
income statement and its interest in their net assets is included in 
investments in the consolidated balance sheet. Where the share 
of losses exceeds the Group’s interest in the entity and there is no 
obligation to fund these losses the carrying amount is reduced to 
nil, following which no further losses are recognised. Interest in the 
entity is the carrying amount of the investment together with any 
long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the net 
investment in the entity.
From time to time the Group undertakes contracts jointly with other 
parties. These fall under the category of jointly controlled operations 
as defined by IAS 31. In accordance with IAS 31, the Group accounts 
for its own share of sales, profits, assets, liabilities and cash flows 
measured according to the terms of the agreements covering the 
jointly controlled operations.
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of  
the consideration over the Group’s interest in the fair value  
of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or jointly 
controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment  
at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in  
the income statement and is not subsequently reversed. Negative 
goodwill is recognised in the income statement immediately. On 
disposal of a subsidiary or jointly controlled entity, the attributable 
carrying amount of goodwill is included in the determination of  
the profit or loss on disposal. Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 
1 July 2004, being the date of transition to IFRS, has been retained 
at the previous UK GAAP value at 1 July 2004 subject to being tested 
for impairment. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior 
to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining 
any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets which comprise contract rights and 
computer software are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and impairment losses. Amortisation is charged to administrative 
expenses in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
expected useful lives of the assets, which are principally as follows:
Contract rights  over the remaining contract life
Computer software  3-7 years
Exceptional items
Items which are significant by their size and nature require separate 
disclosure and are reported separately in the income statement in 
the column headed ‘Non-underlying items’.
Revenue and profit recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or 
receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after 
eliminating sales within the Group. It also includes the Group’s 
proportion of work carried out under jointly controlled operations.
Revenue and profit are recognised as follows:
(a) Construction contracts
Revenue arises from increases in valuations on contracts and is 
normally determined by external valuations. It is the gross value of 
work carried out for the period to the balance sheet date (including 
retentions) but excludes claims until they are actually certified.
Profit on contracts is calculated in accordance with accounting 
standards and industry practice. Industry practice is to assess  
the estimated final outcome of each contract and recognise the 
profit based upon the percentage of completion of the contract at 
the relevant date. The assessment of the final outcome of each 
contract is determined by regular review of the revenues and costs 
to complete that contract. Consistent contract review procedures  
are in place in respect of contract forecasting. Financial statements
99
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
The general principles for profit recognition are as follows:
• Profits on short duration contracts are taken when the contract is 
complete;
• Profits on other contracts are recognised on a percentage of 
completion basis when the contract’s outcome can be estimated 
reliably;
• Provision is made for losses incurred or foreseen in bringing the 
contract to completion as soon as they become apparent;
• Claims receivable are recognised as income when received or 
certified for payment, except that in preparing contract forecasts 
to completion, a prudent and reasonable evaluation of claims 
receivable may be included to mitigate foreseeable losses and 
only to the extent that there is reasonable certainty of recovery; 
and
• Variations and compensation events are included in forecasts  
to completion when it is considered highly probable that they  
will be recovered.
Percentage completion is normally calculated by taking certified 
value to date as a percentage of estimated final value, unless the 
internal value is materially different to the certified value, in which 
case the internal value is used.
(b) Services
Revenue and profit from services rendered, which include facilities 
management, maintenance, street cleaning and recycling, is 
recognised as and when the service is provided.
(c) Private housing and land sales
Revenue from housing sales is recognised at the fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable on legal completion, net of 
incentives. Revenue from land sales and land exchanges is 
recognised on the unconditional exchange of contracts. Profit is 
recognised on a site-by-site basis by reference to the expected 
out-turn result from each site. The principal estimation technique 
used by the Group in attributing profit on sites to a particular period 
is the preparation of forecasts on a site-by-site basis. These focus  
on revenues and costs to complete and enable an assessment  
to be made of the final out-turn on each site. Consistent review 
procedures are in place in respect of site forecasting. Provision  
is made for any losses foreseen in completing a site as soon 
as they become apparent.
(d) Property development
Revenue in respect of property developments is taken on 
unconditional exchange of contracts on disposal of finished 
developments. Profit taken is subject to any amounts necessary to 
cover residual commitments relating to development performance. 
Provision is made for any losses foreseen in completing a 
development as soon as they become apparent.
Where developments are sold in advance of construction being 
completed, revenue and profit are recognised from the point of  
sale and as the significant outstanding acts of construction and 
development are completed. If a development is sold in advance  
of the commencement of construction, no revenue or profit is 
recognised at the point of sale. Revenue and profit are recognised 
in line with the progress on construction, based on the percentage 
completion of the construction and development work. If a 
development is sold during construction but prior to completion, 
revenue and profit are recognised at the time of sale in line with the 
percentage completion of the construction and development works 
at the time of sale and thereafter in line with the percentage of 
completion of the construction and development works.
(e) PFI service concession agreements
Revenue relating to construction or upgrade services under a service 
concession agreement is recognised based on the stage of 
completion of the work performed, consistent with the Group’s 
accounting policy on recognising revenue on construction contracts 
(see above). Operation or service revenue is recognised in the period 
in which the services were provided by the Group. When the Group 
provides more than one service in a service concession agreement, 
the consideration received is allocated by reference to the relative 
fair values of the services delivered. 100
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
1 Significant accounting policies continued 
Pre-contract costs
Costs associated with bidding for contracts are written off as 
incurred (pre-contract costs). When it is probable that a contract will 
be awarded, usually when the Group has secured preferred bidder 
status, costs incurred from that date to the date of financial close 
are carried forward in the balance sheet as other receivables.
When financial close is achieved on Private Finance Initiative (PFI)  
or Public Private Partnership (PPP) contracts, costs are recovered 
from the special purpose vehicle and pre-contract costs within this 
recovery that were not previously capitalised are credited to the 
income statement, except to the extent that the Group retains a 
share in the special purpose vehicle. The amount not credited is 
deferred and recognised over the life of the construction contract  
to which the costs relate.
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation
Depreciation is based on historical or deemed cost, including 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the 
items, less the estimated residual value, and the estimated 
economic lives of the assets concerned. Freehold land is not 
depreciated. Other tangible assets are depreciated to residual 
values in equal annual instalments over the period of their estimated 
economic lives, which are principally as follows:
Freehold buildings 25-50 years
Leasehold buildings and improvements Period of lease
Plant, equipment and vehicles 3-12 years
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter 
of the term of the lease or the expected useful life of the asset.
Leases
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all of 
the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. 
On initial recognition the leased asset is measured at an amount 
equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the 
minimum lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the 
asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy 
applicable to that asset.
Other leases are operating leases and the rental charges are 
charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
life of each lease.
Employee benefits
(a) Retirement benefit obligations
For defined contribution pension schemes operated by the Group, 
amounts payable are charged to the income statement as they  
fall due.
The Group accounts for defined benefit obligations in accordance 
with IAS 19 (Revised). Obligations are measured at discounted 
present value while plan assets are measured at fair value. 
The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised 
separately in the income statement; current service costs are spread 
systematically over the lives of employees and financing costs are 
recognised in full in the period in which they arise. Remeasurements 
of the net defined pension liability, including actuarial gains and 
losses, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Where the calculations result in a surplus to the Group, the 
recognised asset is limited to the present value of any available 
future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions 
to the plan.
(b) Share-based payments
Share-based payments granted but not vested, are valued at the fair 
value of the shares at the date of grant. This affects the Sharesave 
and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) schemes. The fair value of these 
schemes at the date of award is calculated using the Black-Scholes 
model apart from the total shareholder return element of the LTIP 
which is based on a stochastic model.
The cost to the Group of awards to employees under the LTIP 
scheme is spread on a straight-line basis over the relevant 
performance period. The scheme awards to senior employees  
a number of shares which will vest after three years if particular 
criteria are met. The cost of the scheme is based on the fair value 
of the shares at the date the options are granted. 
Shares purchased and held in trust in connection with the Group’s 
share schemes are deducted from retained earnings. No gain or loss 
is recognised within the income statement on the market value of 
these shares compared with the original cost.
Finance income and costs
Interest receivable and payable on bank balances is credited or 
charged to the income statement as incurred using the effective 
interest rate method.
Borrowing costs are capitalised where the Group constructs 
qualifying assets. All other borrowing costs are written off to the 
income statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs incurred within the Group’s jointly controlled  
entities relating to the construction of assets in PFI and PPP  
projects are capitalised until the relevant assets are brought  
into operational use.
Notional interest payable, representing the unwinding of the  
discount on long-term liabilities, is charged to finance costs. Financial statements
101
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
Taxation
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is 
recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is  
also recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on taxable income for  
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect  
of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts  
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
amounts used for taxation purposes. The deferred tax provision is 
based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the 
carrying amount of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will  
be realised.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded  
at the exchange rates in effect when they take place. Resulting 
foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are translated  
at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange 
differences arising from foreign currency transactions are  
reflected in the income statement.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary undertakings are 
translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. 
Trading profits or losses are translated at average rates prevailing 
during the accounting period. Differences on exchange arising  
from the retranslation of net investments in overseas subsidiary 
undertakings at the year-end rates are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. All other translation differences are 
reflected in the income statement.
Mining assets
Opencast expenditure incurred prior to the commencement of 
operating an opencast site is capitalised and the cost less the 
residual value is depreciated over the ‘coaling life’ of the site  
on a coal extraction basis.
The cost of restoration is recognised as a provision as soon as  
the restoration liability arises. The amount provided represents the 
present value of the anticipated costs. Costs are charged against  
the provision as incurred and the unwinding of the discount is 
included within finance costs. A tangible asset is created for an 
amount equivalent to the initial provision and depreciated on a  
coal extraction basis over the life of the asset. Where there is a 
subsequent change to the estimated restoration costs or discount 
rate, the present value of the change is recognised as a change in 
the restoration provision with a corresponding change in the cost  
of the tangible asset until the asset is fully depreciated when the 
remaining adjustment is taken to the income statement.
Inventories
Inventories, including land held for and in the course of 
development, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where appropriate, 
labour and production overheads which have been incurred in 
bringing the inventories and work in progress to their present 
location and condition. Cost in certain circumstances also includes 
notional interest as explained in the accounting policy for finance 
income and costs. Net realisable value represents the estimated 
selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be 
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Construction work in progress is included within inventories in 
the balance sheet. It is measured at cost plus profit less losses 
recognised to date less progress billings. If payments received 
from customers exceed the income recognised, the difference is 
included within trade and other payables in the balance sheet.
Land inventory is recognised at the time a liability is recognised; 
generally after exchange of unconditional contracts.
Property inventory, which represents all development land and  
work in progress, is included at cost less any losses foreseen in 
completing and disposing of the development less any amounts 
received or receivable as progress payments or part disposals. 
Where a property is being developed, cost includes cost of 
acquisition and development to date, including directly attributable 
fees, expenses and finance charges net of rental or other income 
attributable to the development. Where development property is  
not being actively developed, net rental income and finance costs 
are taken to the income statement.
Assets held for sale
Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be 
recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing 
use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and the assets are available for sale in their present 
condition. 102
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
1 Significant accounting policies continued 
Share capital
The ordinary share capital of the Company is recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of directly attributable incremental issue costs.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and where it is 
probable that an outflow will be required to settle the obligation and 
the amount can be reliably estimated.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. The principal financial 
assets and liabilities of the Group are as follows:
(a) Trade receivables and trade payables
Given the varied activities of the Group it is not practicable to 
identify a common operating cycle. The Group has therefore 
allocated receivables and payables due within 12 months of the 
balance sheet date to current with the remainder included in 
non-current.
Trade receivables do not carry interest and are stated at their  
initial fair value reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are 
stated at their nominal value. Trade payables on extended terms, 
particularly in respect of land purchases, are discounted and 
recorded at their present value.
(b) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement comprise 
cash at bank and in hand, including bank deposits with original 
maturities of three months or less, net of bank overdrafts. Bank 
overdrafts are included within financial liabilities in current  
liabilities in the balance sheet.
(c) Bank and other borrowings
Interest-bearing bank and other borrowings are recorded at the fair 
value of the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance 
charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption 
and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the 
income statement using the effective interest method and are added 
to the carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not 
settled in the period in which they arise.
(d) PFI assets
Under the terms of a PFI or similar project, where the risks and 
rewards of ownership remain largely with the purchaser of the 
associated services, the Group’s interest in the asset is classified 
as a financial asset and included at its amortised cost within 
investment in joint ventures.
(e) Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date that the 
contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured in future 
periods at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting 
change in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated 
as a hedging instrument and whether the hedging relationship  
is effective.
For cash flow hedges the effective part of the change in fair value  
of these derivatives is recognised directly in equity. Any ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts 
accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the 
periods when the hedged items will affect profit or loss. The fair 
value of interest rate derivatives is the estimated amount that the 
Group would receive or pay to terminate the derivatives at the 
balance sheet date.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge 
accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge 
accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain  
or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the 
forecast transaction occurs.
The Group enters into forward contracts in order to hedge against 
transactional foreign currency exposures. In cases where these 
derivative instruments are significant, hedge accounting is applied 
as described above. Where hedge accounting is not applied, 
changes in fair value of derivatives are recognised in the income 
statement. Fair values are based on quoted market prices at the 
balance sheet date.
Accounting estimates and judgements
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources  
of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year  
are as follows:
(a) Revenue and profit recognition
The estimation techniques used for revenue and profit recognition in 
respect of private housing sales, property development and 
construction contracts require forecasts to be made of the outcome 
of long-term contracts which require assessments and judgements 
to be made on the recovery of pre-contract costs, changes in the 
scope of work, contract programmes, maintenance and defects 
liabilities and changes in costs.
(b) Valuation of land and work in progress
The key judgements and estimates in determining the net realisable 
value of land and work in progress are:
• An estimation of costs to complete;
• An estimation of the remaining revenues; and
• An estimation of selling costs.
These assessments include a degree of uncertainty and therefore  
if the key judgements and estimates change unfavourably, 
impairments of land and work in progress may be necessary. Financial statements
103
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
(c) Determination of fair values of identifiable net assets 
on acquisitions
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the 
identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the 
fair value cannot be measured reliably, in which case the value is 
subsumed into goodwill.
(d) Defined benefit pension scheme valuations
In determining the valuation of defined benefit pension scheme 
assets and liabilities, a number of key assumptions have been 
made. The key assumptions, which are given below, are largely 
dependent on factors outside the control of the Group:
• Expected return on plan assets;
• Inflation rate;
• Mortality;
• Discount rate; and
• Salary and pension increases.
Details of the assumptions used are included in note 8.
(e) Provisions
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and therefore 
in making a reliable estimate of the amount and timing of liabilities 
judgement is applied and re-evaluated at each reporting date.
(f) Recoverable value of recognised receivables
The recoverability of trade and other receivables is regularly 
reviewed in the light of available economic information specific to 
each receivable and provisions are recognised for balances 
considered to be irrecoverable.
(g) Goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of 
the value in use of cash-generating units (CGUs) to which the 
goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires an 
estimate to be made of the timing and amount of future cash flows 
expected to arise from the CGU and the application of a suitable 
discount rate in order to calculate the net present value. Cash flow 
forecasts for the next three years are based on the Group’s budgets 
and forecasts. Other key inputs in assessing each CGU are revenue 
growth, operating margin and discount rate. The assumptions are 
set out in note 12 together with an assessment of the impact of 
reasonably possible sensitivities.
(h) Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which the 
Group believes should be separately identified on the face of the 
income statement to assist in understanding the underlying financial 
performance achieved by the Group. Determining whether an item is 
part of underlying or non-underlying items requires judgement.
(i) Assets held for sale
When it is probable that businesses will be sold within one year and 
they are being actively marketed they meet the criteria to be 
classified as held for sale.
(j) Taxation
The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions and 
judgement is required in determining the overall provision for income 
taxes. The Group provides for future liabilities in respect of uncertain 
tax positions where additional tax may become payable in future 
periods and such provisions are based on management’s 
assessment of exposures.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally provided for in full and deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is judged probable 
that future taxable profit will arise against which the temporary 
differences will be utilised.
2 Segmental reporting
The Group operates three divisions: Property, Construction and 
Services, which is the basis on which the Group manages and 
reports its primary segmental information. Corporate includes 
unrecovered overheads and the charge for defined benefit pension 
schemes. From 1 July 2014 the Group will operate four divisions: 
Property, Residential, Construction and Services.
Segment information is based on the information provided to the 
chief executive who is the chief operating decision maker. The 
segments are strategic business units with separate management, 
and have different core customers and offer different services. 
The segments are discussed in the chief executive’s strategic review 
on pages 10 to 13 and the divisional reviews on pages 34 to 45.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as 
those described in the summary of significant accounting policies 
on pages 97 to 103. The Group evaluates segment information on 
the basis of profit or loss from operations before exceptional items, 
interest and income tax expense. The segment results that are 
reported to the chief executive include items directly attributable 
to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a 
reasonable basis. 104
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
2 Segmental reporting continued
Year to 30 June 2014
Property
5
£m
Construction
£m
Services
£m
Corporate
£m
Group
£m
Revenue
1
Group and share of joint ventures 284.1 1,597.0 1,104.1 – 2,985.2
Less share of joint ventures (24.4) (6.5) – – (30.9)
Group revenue 259.7 1,590.5 1,104.1 – 2,954.3
Profit
Group operating profit 14.4 32.5 53.3 (19.9) 80.3
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 0.5 1.1 – – 1.6
Profit on disposal of joint ventures 6.1 – – – 6.1
Underlying operating profit 21.0 33.6 53.3 (19.9) 88.0
Underlying net finance (costs)/credits
2
(13.4) 5.6 (4.5) (2.6) (14.9)
Underlying profit before tax 7.6 39.2 48.8 (22.5) 73.1
Exceptional items (2.4) (7.8) (10.4) (21.6) (42.2)
Amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights (0.1) (0.4) (10.3) – (10.8)
Non-underlying net finance costs (0.3) – (5.0) – (5.3)
Profit before tax 4.8 31.0 23.1 (44.1) 14.8
Balance sheet
Total assets excluding cash 446.7 540.0 432.0 238.4 1,657.1
Liabilities excluding borrowings (61.3) (638.9) (382.0) (142.4) (1,224.6)
Net operating assets/(liabilities)
4
385.4 (98.9) 50.0 96.0 432.5
Cash, net of borrowings (304.2) 273.9 13.2 (105.7) (122.8)
Net assets/(liabilities) 81.2 175.0 63.2 (9.7) 309.7
Other information
Inter-segmental revenue
3
1.5 10.3 130.0 8.4 150.2
Capital expenditure 1.0 3.2 35.2 8.8 48.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.2 8.5 29.2 3.6 41.5
Amortisation of computer software – – – 1.1 1.1
1
 Revenue is stated after the exclusion of inter-segmental revenue.
2
 Interest was (charged)/credited to the divisions at a notional rate of 4.5% and 4.0% respectively.
3 
Inter-segmental pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis.
4
 Net operating assets/(liabilities) represent assets excluding cash, borrowings and interest-bearing inter-company loans.
5
 Results for Property include the Residential business, created on 1 July 2014. These results will be separately disclosed in the year to 30 June 2015. Financial statements
105
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
Year to 30 June 2013
Property
5
 £m
Construction
 £m
Services
 £m
Corporate
†
 £m
Group
†
 £m
Revenue
1
Group and share of joint ventures 238.0 1,307.4 437.4 – 1,982.8
Less share of joint ventures (33.6) (6.2) – – (39.8)
Group revenue 204.4 1,301.2 437.4 – 1,943.0
Profit
Group operating profit 10.2 30.0 19.3 (14.7) 44.8
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 0.5 0.4 – – 0.9
Profit on disposal of joint ventures 9.8 – – – 9.8
Underlying operating profit 20.5 30.4 19.3 (14.7) 55.5
Underlying net finance (costs)/credits
2
(12.9) 7.6 (0.8) (1.8) (7.9)
Underlying profit before tax 7.6 38.0 18.5 (16.5) 47.6
Exceptional items – (8.9) (6.7) (1.4) (17.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights – (0.1) (3.3) – (3.4)
Non-underlying net finance costs (1.3) – – – (1.3)
Profit before tax 6.3 29.0 8.5 (17.9) 25.9
Balance sheet
Total assets excluding cash 425.5 370.2 131.4 53.4 980.5
Liabilities excluding borrowings (81.0) (568.4) (129.1) (103.5) (882.0)
Net operating assets/(liabilities)
4
344.5 (198.2) 2.3 (50.1) 98.5
Cash, net of borrowings (266.9) 319.3 30.0 (22.6) 59.8
Net assets/(liabilities) 77.6 121.1 32.3 (72.7) 158.3
Other information
Inter-segmental revenue
3
0.3 10.2 35.5 13.1 59.1
Capital expenditure 1.6 6.7 8.1 10.6 27.0
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.2 5.4 4.1 3.0 12.7
Amortisation of computer software – – – 0.9 0.9
1
 Revenue is stated after the exclusion of inter-segmental revenue.
2
 Interest was (charged)/credited to the divisions at a notional rate of 4.5% and 4.0% respectively.
3 
Inter-segmental pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis.
4 
Net operating assets/(liabilities) represent assets excluding cash, borrowings and interest-bearing inter-company loans.
5
 Results for Property include the Residential business, created on 1 July 2014. These results will be separately disclosed in the year to 30 June 2015.
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31).
3 Profit for the year
Profit before taxation is stated after charging:
2014 
£m
2013
 £m
Auditor’s remuneration:
Fees payable for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.6
Other services 0.9 1.2
Hire of plant and machinery 55.1 23.7
Operating lease rentals:
Land and buildings 4.7 5.0
Plant and machinery 11.6 20.0
The 2013 auditor’s remuneration for statutory audit services and non-audit services relate to amounts paid to KPMG Audit Plc. The 2014 
amounts solely relate to amounts paid to KPMG LLP.
Other services mainly comprise £0.7m for advice in connection with the Group’s organisational efficiency and transformation project. 106
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
4 Non-underlying items
2014
 £m
2013*
 £m
Costs relating to the acquisition of May Gurney (8.1) (1.8)
Restructuring and transformation costs following the acquisition of May Gurney (29.6) – 
Construction Workers Compensation Scheme and related costs (4.5) – 
Business restructuring – (10.1)
Provision for loss on disposal of tower crane and other discontinued businesses – (3.2)
Closure and discontinuation of the scaffolding and related businesses – (1.9)
Exceptional items before tax (42.2) (17.0)
Tax on exceptional items 6.4 3.7
Exceptional items after tax (35.8) (13.3)
Amortisation of intangible contract rights (10.8) (3.4)
Tax on amortisation of intangible contract rights 2.2 0.8
Exceptional items and amortisation of intangible contract rights after tax (44.4) (15.9)
Acquisition discount unwind (5.3) (1.3)
Tax on acquisition discount unwind 1.2 0.3
Exceptional items, amortisation and acquisition discount unwind after tax (48.5) (16.9)
*
 Non-underlying items include one-off costs related to restructuring, acquisitions and business closures, amortisation of contract right costs held 
as intangibles on the balance sheet and unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition. 
The prior year comparatives have been re-presented to reflect this presentation.
During the year the Group incurred costs of £8.1m on the acquisition of May Gurney (2013: £1.8m; following this acquisition the business 
incurred £29.6m of restructuring and transformation costs, primarily related to reduction in staff numbers and office rationalisation across 
the enlarged business.
Provision has been made for the likely £4.5m costs to satisfy the Group’s share of both claims from, and administration costs of, 
The Construction Workers Compensation Scheme and related costs.
In 2013 the Group incurred restructuring costs in the Construction and Services divisions (£10.1m), and provided for the loss on 
disposal of the tower crane business along with other discontinued businesses (£3.2m) and for the closure of the scaffolding and 
related businesses, (£1.9m).
5 Finance income and cost
2014 2013
Underlying 
£m
Non-
underlying
1
£m
Total
 £m
Underlying 
£m
Non-
underlying
1
 
£m
Total 
£m
Finance income
Interest receivable on bank deposits 0.6 – 0.6 1.0 – 1.0
Interest receivable on loans to joint ventures 1.6 – 1.6 1.3 – 1.3
2.2 – 2.2 2.3 – 2.3
Finance costs
Interest payable and fees on bank overdrafts  
and loans (3.6) – (3.6) (2.4) – (2.4)
Interest payable on borrowings (7.8) – (7.8) (3.0) – (3.0)
Interest payable to joint ventures (0.1) – (0.1) – – – 
Interest payable on finance leases (2.7) – (2.7) (0.4) – (0.4)
Discount unwinding (1.1) (5.3) (6.4) (1.5) (1.3) (2.8)
Net interest on net defined benefit obligation (1.8) – (1.8) (2.9) – (2.9)
(17.1) (5.3) (22.4) (10.2) (1.3) (11.5)
1
 Unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition. Financial statements
107
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
6 Information relating to employees
Note
2014 
No.
2013
†
 No.
Average number of people employed during the year including executive directors was:
United Kingdom 14,318 9,763
Rest of world 1,017 692
 15,335 10,455
£m £m
Group staff costs are as follows:
United Kingdom 576.4 386.5
Rest of world 37.0 18.4
 613.4 404.9
Comprising:
Wages and salaries 522.2 339.8
Social security costs 45.9 31.4
Defined benefit pension scheme costs 14.0 16.0
Contributions to the defined contribution pension scheme 27.3 13.7
Share-based payment plans 25 4.0 4.0
 613.4 404.9
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31).
7 Information relating to directors
Information relating to directors’ emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and LTIP interests appears in the directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 67 to 85.
8 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a number of pension schemes for eligible employees as described below.
Kier Group Pension scheme
This is the principal scheme and includes a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section. The assets of the scheme are held 
in trust separate from the assets of the Group. The trustees are responsible for investing the assets and delegate day-to-day decisions to 
independent professional investment managers.
The defined benefit section of the scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 January 2002; existing members continue to accrue benefits 
for future service, although consultation with members to close the scheme to future accrual commenced in July 2014.
An actuarial valuation of the scheme was undertaken by the trustees’ independent actuaries as at 1 April 2013 using the projected unit 
method. The market value of the scheme’s assets at that date was £822m which represented approximately 83% of the benefits that had 
accrued to members at that date, after allowing for future increases in pensionable salaries. The contributions paid during the year were 
£16.4m (2013: £29.4m) which included contributions of £8m (2013: £20.1m) to fund the past service deficit.
The Group is currently consulting with members over the closure of the defined benefit section to future accrual (with effect from 
1 November 2014). 
Going forward, contributions will include an allowance for funding the past service deficit identified at the 2013 valuation date. The Group 
expects to make contributions for future service of £2.8m, being 21.8% of pensionable pay until 1 November 2014 assuming future accrual 
ends at that date, plus £16.7m for funding the past service deficit in the year to June 2015.
The Pension Protection Fund (PPF) levy is payable in addition to the above contributions.
Kier Sheffield LLP (participation in South Yorkshire Pension Fund)
The Group participated in the South Yorkshire Pension Fund through its subsidiary Kier Sheffield LLP. The participation commenced on 
1 April 2003 when Kier Sheffield LLP became an admitted body. As such it was granted a fully funded past service position at that date, 
with assets and past service liabilities of £65.0m.
The scheme originally covered 1,146 employees who transferred from Sheffield City Council’s employment to Kier Sheffield LLP at the start of 
the contract. New employees were offered membership of the defined contribution section of the Kier Group Pension Scheme. Kier Sheffield 
LLP is required to pay contributions in respect of these employees in accordance with the rates specified in their contracts of employment.
The original contract terminated on 31 March 2014 and therefore Kier Sheffield’s participation in this defined benefit scheme ceased on 
that date. The assets and liabilities relating to Kier Sheffield LLP’s liabilities have been transferred back to Sheffield City Council.
Kier Sheffield LLP’s pension costs in respect of the defined benefit scheme are assessed on the advice of an independent qualified actuary 
using the projected unit method. The contributions paid during the nine month period to 31 March 2014 were £2.1m (2013: £1.8m).  108
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
8 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Other defined benefit schemes
The May Gurney and TransLinc defined benefit schemes were acquired with May Gurney (see note 30). Both of these defined benefit 
schemes have closed to future accrual and the sum of the deficit contributions to both plans payable in the period to 30 June 2014 
amounted to £0.3m. The assets of the scheme are held in trust separate from the assets of the Group. The trustees are responsible 
for decisions, holding the assets and delegate day to day decisions to independent professional investment managers.
Other defined contribution schemes
Contributions are also made to a number of other defined contribution arrangements. The Group paid contributions of £26.7m 
(2013: £13.7m) during the year to these arrangements.
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ disclosures
Kier recognises any actuarial gains or losses through the statement of comprehensive income as permitted under IAS 19.
The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries were:
Kier Group Pension Scheme
2014
%
2013 
%
2012
 %
Rate of general increases in pensionable salaries 3.3 3.3 2.8
Rate of increase to pensions in payment liable for Limited Price Indexation 3.2 3.2 2.8
Discount rate 4.4 4.7 4.7
Inflation rate (RPI) 3.4 3.5 3.0
Inflation rate (CPI) 2.4 2.5 2.0
The mortality assumptions are that life expectancy from age 60 is currently 27.8 years for a man and 29.6 years for a woman but is expected 
to increase to 29.3 years for future male and 31.0 years for future female pensioners who retire in 2034.
Value
 
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Land 13.3 12.9 13.8
Equities, property and other return-seeking assets 644.9 608.1 513.2
PFI assets 7.3 7.1 7.6
Government bonds, cash, swaps and collateral 171.6 155.6 187.3
Total market value of assets 837.1 783.7 721.9
Present value of liabilities (900.2) (832.4)  (780.9)
Deficit (63.1) (48.7) (59.0)
Related deferred tax asset 12.6 11.2 14.2
Net pension liability (50.5) (37.5) (44.8)
IAS 19 requires that the discount rate is determined by reference to high quality corporate bonds in the UK that match the estimated term 
of the pension obligations. This year, we have assumed that ‘high quality’ corporate bonds are those which at least one rating agency 
considers to be at least AA (or equivalent). In previous years, we had required that the majority of the rating agencies rated a bond as AA 
for us to consider it a high quality corporate bond. This represents a change in the basis of estimation applied in prior periods, and has 
had the impact of decreasing the defined benefit obligation in the Kier Group Pension Scheme by around £32m at 30 June 2014. Financial statements
109
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
Kier Sheffield LLP
2014
 %
2013 
%
2012
 %
Rate of general increases in pensionable salaries 4.4 4.5 4.0
Discount rate 4.4 4.7 4.7
Inflation rate (RPI) 3.4 3.5 3.0
Inflation rate (CPI) 2.4 2.5 2.0
The mortality assumptions are that life expectancy from age 60 is currently 27.7 years for a man and 30.5 years for a woman but is expected 
to increase to 30.1 years for future male and 33.0 years for future female pensioners who retire in 2034.
Value
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Equities and property – 128.4 120.7
Corporate bonds – 12.1 13.0
Government bonds – 42.4 27.5
Total market value of assets – 182.9 161.2
Present value of liabilities – (183.9) (160.0)
(Deficit)/surplus – (1.0) 1.2
Related deferred tax asset/(liability) – 0.2 (0.3)
Net pension (liability)/asset – (0.8) 0.9
Other defined benefit schemes (May Gurney and TransLinc)
2014
%
8 July 2013
%
Rate of increase to pensions in payment liable for Limited Price Indexation 3.2 3.2
Discount rate 4.4 4.7
Inflation rate (RPI) 3.4 3.5
Inflation rate (CPI) 2.4 2.5
The mortality assumptions are that life expectancy from age 60 is currently 26.4 years for a man and 28.8 years for a woman but is 
expected to increase to 28.0 years for future male and 30.4 years for future female pensioners who retire in 2034.
2014
£m
8 July 2013
£m
Equities, property and other return-seeking assets 38.0 44.2
Government bonds and cash 36.6 26.9
Total market value of assets 74.6 71.1
Present value of liabilities (71.3) (67.4)
Surplus 3.3 3.7
Related deferred tax liability (0.7) (0.7)
Net pension asset 2.6 3.0 110
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
8 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Amounts recognised in the financial statements in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows:
2014 2013
†
Kier Group
Pension
Scheme
£m
Kier
Sheffield
LLP
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Kier Group
Pension
Scheme
£m
Kier
Sheffield
LLP
£m
Total
£m
(Charged)/credited to operating profit in the income statement
Current service cost (9.3) (2.5) – (11.8) (9.8) (2.8) (12.6)
Administration expenses (0.9) – – (0.9) (0.4) – (0.4)
Past service cost (including curtailments) – (0.9) – (0.9) – (0.1) (0.1)
Settlement credit – 1.4 – 1.4 – – –
Net interest on net defined benefit obligation (1.9) – 0.1 (1.8) (3.0) 0.1 (2.9)
Pension (expense)/credit recognised in profit and loss (12.1) (2.0) 0.1 (14.0) (13.2) (2.8) (16.0)
Remeasurement in other comprehensive income
Actual return in excess of that recognised in net interest 36.4 5.1 2.5 44.0 31.5 14.2 45.7
Actuarial losses due to changes in financial assumptions (44.4) (7.5) (3.4) (55.3) (38.1) (15.4) (53.5)
Actuarial losses due to changes in demographic assumptions (7.7) (8.4) – (16.1) – – –
Actuarial gains/(losses) due to liability experience (3.0) 11.7 – 8.7 0.7 – 0.7
Total amount recognised in full (18.7) 0.9 (0.9) (18.7) (5.9) (1.2) (7.1)
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets
Fair value at 1 July 783.7 182.9 – 966.6 721.9 161.2 883.1
Acquired in the year – – 71.1 71.1 – – –
Interest income on scheme assets 36.4 6.5 3.3 46.2 33.0 7.6 40.6
Remeasurement gains on scheme assets 36.4 5.1 2.5 44.0 31.5 14.2 45.7
Contributions by the employer 16.4 2.1 0.3 18.8 29.4 1.8 31.2
Contributions by scheme participants 0.1 0.8 – 0.9 0.1 1.1 1.2
Net benefits paid out (35.0) (4.3) (2.6) (41.9) (31.8) (3.0) (34.8)
Administration expenses (0.9) – – (0.9) (0.4) – (0.4)
Transfer out – (193.1) – (193.1) – – –
Fair value at 30 June 837.1 – 74.6 911.7 783.7 182.9 966.6
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation
Fair value at 1 July (832.4) (183.9) – (1,016.3) (780.9) (160.0) (940.9)
Acquired in the year – – (67.4) (67.4) – – –
Current service cost (9.3) (2.5) – (11.8) (9.8) (2.8) (12.6)
Interest expense on scheme liabilities (38.3) (6.5) (3.1) (47.9) (36.0) (7.5) (43.5)
Past service cost – (0.9) – (0.9) – (0.1) (0.1)
Settlement – 1.4 – 1.4 – – –
Actuarial losses due to changes in financial assumptions (44.4) (7.5) (3.4) (55.3) (38.1) (15.4) (53.5)
Actuarial losses due to changes in demographic assumptions (7.7) (8.4) – (16.1) – – –
Actuarial (losses)/gains due to liability experience (3.0) 11.7 – 8.7 0.7 – 0.7
Contributions by scheme participants (0.1) (0.8) – (0.9) (0.1) (1.1) (1.2)
Net benefits paid out 35.0 4.3 2.6 41.9 31.8 3.0 34.8
Transfer out – 193.1 – 193.1 – – –
Fair value at 30 June (900.2) – (71.3) (971.5) (832.4) (183.9) (1,016.3)
Amounts included in the balance sheet
Fair value of scheme assets 837.1 – 74.6 911.7 783.7 182.9 966.6
Net present value of the defined benefit obligation (900.2) – (71.3) (971.5) (832.4) (183.9) (1,016.3)
Net (deficit)/surplus (63.1) – 3.3 (59.8) (48.7) (1.0) (49.7)
Related deferred tax asset/(liability) 12.6 – (0.7) 11.9 11.2 0.2 11.4
Net pension (liability)/asset (50.5) – 2.6 (47.9) (37.5) (0.8) (38.3)
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31). Financial statements
111
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
History of experience gains and losses for defined benefit schemes in aggregate:
2014
£m
2013
†
 
£m
2012
£m
2011
 £m
2010
 £m
Fair value of scheme assets 911.7 966.6 883.1 839.7 746.3
Net present value of the defined benefit obligation (971.5) (1,016.3) (940.9) (869.3) (833.5)
Net deficit (59.8) (49.7) (57.8) (29.6) (87.2)
Related deferred tax asset 11.9 11.4 13.9 7.7 24.4
Net pension liability (47.9) (38.3) (43.9) (21.9) (62.8)
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets 44.0 45.7 (6.1) 47.0 82.8
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities 8.7 0.7 (42.9) (34.4) (93.0)
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31).
The Group has made the following special contributions to the Kier Group Pension Scheme:
• In July 2012, £5.0m which was settled in cash; and
• In June 2013, £7.1m which was settled through the transfer of the Group’s interest in the Sydenham development site into 
Kier Sydenham LP, an equal partnership between the Group and the scheme.
These amounts have been included as contributions received by the scheme. No special contributions were made in the year 
to 30 June 2014.
Pension sensitivity
The following table shows the change in surplus/(deficit) arising from a change in the significant actuarial assumptions used to determine 
the retirement benefits obligations for the Kier Group Pension Scheme:
2014 2013
+0.25%/+1 year
£m
-0.25%/-1 year
£m
+0.25%/+1 year
£m
-0.25%/-1 year
£m
Discount rate (+0.25%, -0.25%) 41.1 (41.4) 36.5 (36.5)
Inflation rate (+0.25%, -0.25%) (20.3) 20.3 (22.0) 22.0
Increase in life expectancy (+/- 1 year) (28.7) 28.7 (26.5) 26.5
The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occuring at 
the end of the reporting period and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a change in a key assumption while 
holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method used to calculate the liability 
recognised in the balance sheet has been applied. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not 
change compared with the previous period. 112
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
9 Taxation
(a) Recognised in the income statement
2014 2013
Underlying
 items*
 £m
Non-underlying
items including
amortisation
of intangible
contract
rights*
 £m
Total
 £m
Underlying
items*
†
 £m
Non-underlying
items including
amortisation
of intangible
contract
rights* 
 £m
Total
†
 
£m
Current tax expense
UK corporation tax 8.2 (8.2) – 3.8 (3.8) –
Adjustments for prior years (0.2) – (0.2) (2.1) – (2.1)
Total current tax 8.0 (8.2) (0.2) 1.7 (3.8) (2.1)
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary 
differences 9.3 (1.6) 7.7 5.2 (1.0) 4.2
Rate change effect on deferred tax (5.4) – (5.4) (1.4) – (1.4)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.0 – 2.0 (0.4) – (0.4)
Total deferred tax 5.9 (1.6) 4.3 3.4 (1.0) 2.4
Total tax charge/(credit) in the income 
statement 13.9 (9.8) 4.1 5.1 (4.8) 0.3
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Profit before tax 73.1 (58.3) 14.8 47.6 (21.7) 25.9
Adjust: tax on joint ventures included above 0.1 – 0.1 (0.2) – (0.2)
Adjusted profit before tax 73.2 (58.3) 14.9 47.4 (21.7) 25.7
Income tax at UK corporation tax rate of 
22.5% (2013: 23.75%) 16.5 (13.1) 3.4 11.2 (5.1) 6.1
Non-deductible expenses 2.5 3.3 5.8 0.1 0.3 0.4
Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate (5.4) – (5.4) (1.4) – (1.4)
Capital gains not taxed (1.4) – (1.4) (1.2) – (1.2)
Tax relief on expenses not recognised in the 
income statement (0.2) – (0.2) (0.7) – (0.7)
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 0.2 – 0.2 (0.2) – (0.2)
Deferred tax asset on tax losses in joint 
ventures – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.8 – 1.8 (2.5) – (2.5)
Total tax (including joint ventures) 14.0 (9.8) 4.2 4.9 (4.8) 0.1
Tax on joint ventures (0.1) – (0.1) 0.2 – 0.2
Group tax charge/(credit) 13.9 (9.8) 4.1 5.1 (4.8) 0.3
*
 Non-underlying items include one-off costs related to restructuring, acquisitions and business closures, amortisation of contract right costs held 
as intangibles on the balance sheet and unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition. 
The prior year comparatives have been re-presented to reflect this presentation (see note 4). 
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31).
Kier Group and its subsidiaries are based predominantly in the UK and are subject to UK corporation tax. Where Kier operates overseas, this 
will generally be either through UK resident companies or branches of UK companies, and therefore these companies will pay UK corporation 
tax subject to the offset of local overseas tax. The Group does not have an aggressive tax policy and has not entered into any tax avoidance 
schemes which were, or should have been, notified to HMRC under the Disclosure of Tax Avoidance Schemes (DOTAS) rules during the year 
or previous year.
The tax charge before exceptional items and amortisation of contract rights of £13.9m (2013: £5.1m) shown in the table above equates to 
an effective tax rate of 19% (2013: 11%) on adjusted profit before tax of £73.2m (2013: £47.4m). This effective rate is lower than the 
standard rate of corporation tax of 22.5% (2013: 23.75%) due to a number of items shown in the table above. The increase in non-deductible 
expenses relates mainly to acquisition costs on May Gurney and permanent differences on provisions.
The effect of the change in the UK corporation tax rate arises principally as a result of the impact of the rate change on the deferred tax 
asset related to the retirement benefit obligations. In accordance with accounting standards the effect of the change in the tax rate on the 
deferred tax balance is recognised in the same primary statement that the original deferred balance was recognised. The original deferred 
tax balance relating to the retirement benefit obligation is made up of two larger amounts that were previously recognised in part through  Financial statements
113
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
the income statement and in part through the statement of comprehensive income. This has resulted in a credit in the income statement 
and a charge in the statement of comprehensive income for the years ended 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2014.
In accordance with UK tax legislation, capital gains arising on disposal of certain investments, including some of the joint ventures disposed 
of during the year, are not subject to tax.
Tax relief on expenses not recognised in the income statement includes the impact of the tax deduction received in respect of the cost of 
shares exercised under the Group’s employee Save As You Earn Scheme and the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The adjustment in respect of prior years results from differences between the estimates of taxation included in the previous year’s financial 
statements and the actual tax liabilities calculated in the tax returns submitted to and agreed by HMRC.
(b) Recognised in the cash flow statement
The cash flow statement shows a repayment of £11.3m during the year (2013: £3.5m). £9.4m relates to May Gurney which primarily is a 
result of losses on onerous contracts.
(c) Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
2014
£m
2013
†
£m
Deferred tax expense (including effect of change in tax rate) 
Share of fair value movements on joint venture cash flow hedging instruments 3.6 1.7
Fair value movements on cash flow hedging instruments (0.3) –
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 4.9 1.2
Provisions 1.9 –
Total tax charge in the statement of comprehensive income 10.1 2.9
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31).
(d) Factors that may affect future tax charges
The Chancellor has so far cut the main rate of corporation tax from 24% to 21% since 2012, and announced it will reduce further by an 
additional 1% in April 2015, so it will reach 20%.
The corporation tax reduction from 23% to 21%, that became effective from 1 April 2014, and a further reduction to 20% effective from 
1 April 2015, were both substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. 
The reduction to 20% has had the effect of reducing the net deferred tax asset by £1.1m, with £5.4m being credited to the income 
statement and £6.5m being charged directly to the statement of comprehensive income.
This will reduce the Group’s future tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax balance as at the year end has been recognised at 20%.
(e) Tax losses
At the balance sheet date the Group has unused income tax losses of £14.8m (2013: £10.3m) available for offset against future profits.  
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of £14.7m (2013: £10.2m) of these losses. No deferred tax asset has been recognised 
in respect of the remaining losses, due to the unpredictability of future profit streams against which these losses could be offset. Under 
present tax legislation, these losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
10 Dividends 
Amounts recognised as distributions to owners of the parent in the year:
2014 
£m
2013
£m
Final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2013 of 46.5 pence (2012: 44.5 pence) 25.0 17.3
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 June 2014 of 22.5 pence (2013: 21.5 pence) 12.3 8.5
37.3 25.8
The proposed final dividend of 49.5 pence (2013: 46.5 pence), bringing the total dividend for the year to 72.0 pence (2013: 68.0 pence), 
had not been approved at the balance sheet date and so has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. The proposed 
dividend totalling c£27.1m will be paid on 28 November 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 26 September 
2014. A scrip dividend alternative will be offered. 114
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
11 Earnings per share
A reconciliation of profit and earnings per share, as reported in the income statement, to adjusted profit and earnings per share is set  
out below. The adjustments are made to illustrate the impact of exceptional items, the amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract 
rights and unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition.
2014 2013
†
Basic
 £m
Diluted 
£m
Basic 
£m
Diluted 
£m
Earnings after tax and non-controlling interests, being net profits attributable to 
owners of the parent 10.0 10.0 24.6 24.6
Add exceptional items 42.2 42.2 17.0 17.0
Less tax thereon (6.4) (6.4) (3.7) (3.7)
Earnings excluding exceptional items 45.8 45.8 37.9 37.9
Add amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights 10.8 10.8 3.4 3.4
Less tax thereon (2.2) (2.2) (0.8) (0.8)
Earnings excluding exceptional items and amortisation of intangible contract rights 54.4 54.4 40.5 40.5
Add acquisition discount unwind* 5.3 5.3 1.3 1.3
Less tax thereon (1.2) (1.2) (0.3) (0.3)
Adjusted earnings 58.5 58.5 41.5 41.5
million million million million
Weighted average number of shares in issue 54.3 54.3 39.3 39.3
Weighted average impact of LTIP and Sharesave Scheme – 0.4 – 0.4
Weighted average number of shares used for earnings per share 54.3 54.7 39.3 39.7
 pence pence pence pence
Earnings per share 18.4 18.3 62.6 62.0
Adjusted earnings per share (excluding exceptional items, amortisation of 
intangible contract rights and acquisition discount unwind) 107.7 106.9 105.6 104.5
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31).
*
 Unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition.
On 8 July 2013 14.7 million shares were issued in connection with the acquisition of May Gurney (see note 24 for further details). Financial statements
115
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
12 Intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Intangible 
contract rights 
£m
Computer 
software
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 30 June 2012 13.4 33.4 4.5 51.3
Additions – 5.5 – 5.5
At 30 June 2013 13.4 38.9 4.5 56.8
Additions 1.2 0.5 4.5 6.2
Acquired 194.7 106.7 – 301.4
Disposals (0.7) (1.6) – (2.3)
At 30 June 2014 208.6 144.5 9.0 362.1
Amortisation  
At 30 June 2012 – (22.2) (0.3) (22.5)
Charge for the year – (3.4) (0.9) (4.3)
At 30 June 2013 – (25.6) (1.2) (26.8)
Charge for year – (10.8) (1.1) (11.9)
Disposals – 0.4 – 0.4
At 30 June 2014 – (36.0) (2.3) (38.3)
Net book value
At 30 June 2014 208.6 108.5 6.7 323.8
At 30 June 2013 13.4 13.3 3.3 30.0
Goodwill relates to the acquisition of May Gurney (£194.7m), Kier Partnership Homes Limited (£5.2m), Pure Recycling Limited (£4.8m), Beco 
Limited (£2.6m), Kier Developments Limited (£0.1m), Kier Sydenham Limited Partnership (£0.5m) and Lingfield (Catterick) Ltd (£0.7m). 
These balances have been subject to an annual impairment review based upon the projected profits and cash flows of each business.
The cost of contract rights primarily relates to:
• The acquisition of the businesses and assets of the construction and business services operations of Sheffield City Council (£21.3m), 
Harlow Council (£0.8m), Stoke-on-Trent City Council (£1.9m) and North Tyneside Council (£6.5m). These contracts are in partnership with 
the respective councils who have retained a participatory ownership interest and the rights for a minority share in the profits. These profit 
shares are reflected in the income statement as minority interests. The amounts for the year to 30 June 2014 are: Sheffield City Council 
£0.2m (2013: £nil), Harlow Council £0.6m (2013: £0.5m), Stoke-on-Trent City Council credit £0.2m (2013: charge £0.3m) and North 
Tyneside Council £0.1m (2013: £0.2m); 
• The acquisition of Pure Recycling Limited (£2.0m) and Stewart Milne (£1.0m);
• The acquisition of a commercial refuse collections business from Wealdon District Council (£3.6m); and
• The acquisition of May Gurney (£106.7m).
Contract rights on May Gurney are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected total contract duration. All other contract rights are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining contract life. 116
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
12 Intangible assets continued
Carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible contract rights by CGU
Goodwill
£m
Intangible
 contract 
rights
£m
2014
Total
£m
Goodwill
£m
Intangible 
contract 
rights
£m
2013
Total
£m
Construction 6.9 4.3 11.2 – 0.9 0.9 
Property 6.4 0.6 7.0 6.0 1.6 7.6 
Services 195.3 103.6 298.9 7.4 10.8 18.2 
208.6 108.5 317.1 13.4 13.3 26.7 
For impairment testing purpose the goodwill has been allocated to the above three trading segments. The recoverable amount of the 
goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on value in use calculations. The calculations use cash flow projections based on the 
Group’s forecasts, approved by management, covering a three-year period.
The resulting cash flows are discounted to present value, with the discount rate used in the value in use calculations based on the Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital, adjusted as necessary to reflect the risk associated with the assets being tested.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the forecast revenues and gross margins during the forecast period and the 
discount rates applied to future cash flows. Cash flows for periods beyond those forecast have a terminal growth rate assumption applied.
Significant headroom exists in all segments and management considers that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would 
not lead to an impairment being recognised.
Services segment 
A revenue growth rate of 2% and a fixed operating margin of 5% have been applied to the Services segment cash flows into perpetuity. 
These assumptions are in line with current trading and current forecasts of UK GDP growth rate. The pre-tax discount rate used is 9.1%.
Based on the value in use calculation, these assumptions derived a recoverable amount for the Services segment that is £531m above the 
carrying value of segmental assets. 
The Services CGU impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions; discount rate, revenue growth rate and the operating 
margin, although management do not consider that any reasonable possible change in any single assumption would give rise to an 
impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles. The assumptions would have to change as follows for any single assumption 
change to bring headroom down to £nil:
Discount rate – increase from 9.1% to 18.1%
Growth rate – reduce from positive 2% to negative 7.7%
Underlying operating margin – reduce from 5% to 1.6% Financial statements
117
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
13 Property, plant and equipment 
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
Mining 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 30 June 2012 51.5 87.0 44.4 182.9
Additions 8.8 12.7 5.5 27.0
Disposals (0.1) (6.3) – (6.4)
Transferred to assets held for sale – (12.5) – (12.5)
Currency realignment – 0.2 – 0.2
At 30 June 2013 60.2 81.1 49.9 191.2
Acquired 7.3 158.8 – 166.1
Additions 6.7 39.5 2.0 48.2
Disposals (2.4) (42.6) – (45.0)
Currency realignment – (1.2) – (1.2)
At 30 June 2014 71.8 235.6 51.9 359.3
Accumulated depreciation
At 30 June 2012 (4.6) (52.0) (23.5) (80.1)
Charge for the year (1.5) (8.1) (3.1) (12.7)
Disposals 0.1 5.1 – 5.2
Transferred to assets held for sale – 5.7 – 5.7
Currency realignment – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 30 June 2013 (6.0) (49.4) (26.6) (82.0)
Acquired (3.2) (75.8) – (79.0)
Charge for the year (2.2) (32.3) (7.0) (41.5)
Disposals 1.1 35.6 – 36.7
Impairment (2.0) – – (2.0)
Currency realignment – 0.9 – 0.9
At 30 June 2014 (12.3) (121.0) (33.6) (166.9)
Net book value
At 30 June 2014 59.5 114.6 18.3 192.4
At 30 June 2013 54.2 31.7 23.3 109.2
The net book value of plant and equipment includes an amount of £81.2m (2013: £13.7m) in respect of assets held under finance leases 
(see note 21). 118
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
14 Investment in joint ventures
(a) Movements in year
2014 
£m
2013
 £m
Investment in joint ventures
At 1 July 29.7 7.5
Additions 11.7 21.7
Loan repayments 0.4 –
Disposals (13.7) (3.2)
Share of:
Operating profit 1.9 0.7
Finance costs (0.2) – 
Taxation (0.1) 0.2
Post-tax results of joint ventures 1.6 0.9
Net income recognised directly in equity 15.1 4.7
Deferred tax credit on items recognised directly in equity (3.6) (1.7)
Dividends received (0.3) (0.2)
At 30 June 40.9 29.7
(b) Analysis of investment
2014
 £m
2013 
£m
Investment in joint ventures
Property, plant and equipment 33.9 28.3
Deferred tax assets 0.7 4.3
Other non-current assets 38.0 116.4
Current assets 29.9 35.4
Gross assets 102.5 184.4
Trade and other payables – current (7.5) (19.2)
Borrowings – current (3.4) –
Borrowings – non-current (56.6) (130.9)
Financial instruments (1.8) (15.8)
Deferred tax liabilities – (0.4)
Net external assets 33.2 18.1
Loans provided to joint ventures 7.7 11.6
Total investment in joint ventures 40.9 29.7
The Group has provided guarantees to support borrowing facilities of joint ventures as follows:
Borrowing 
facility 
£m
Guarantee 
£m
Drawn
 at June
 2014
 £m
Borrowing 
facility 
£m
Guarantee 
£m
Drawn
 at June
 2013
 £m
Solum Regeneration (Epsom) LP 15.0 7.5 5.0 19.0 9.5 10.2
Kier Sydenham LP 36.0 36.0 31.5 36.0 36.0 32.5
Biogen (UK) Limited 22.0 22.0 9.0 12.0 12.0 –
73.0 65.5 45.5 67.0 57.5 42.7
Other than as disclosed above the liabilities of the joint ventures are without recourse to the Group. Details of the Group’s interests in joint 
ventures are given on page 112. Financial statements
119
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
15 Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior 
reporting year.
Intangible 
assets
 £m
Property,
 plant and
 equipment 
£m
Short-term 
temporary 
differences 
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations*
 £m
Tax
 losses 
£m
Total* 
£m
At 30 June 2012 (0.7) 0.3 12.2 13.9 2.2 27.9
Credit/(charge) to income 0.1 2.5 (3.9) (1.3) 0.2 (2.4)
Credit direct to comprehensive income – – – (1.2) – (1.2)
Share-based payments charged to equity – – (0.8) – – (0.8)
At 30 June 2013 (0.6) 2.8 7.5 11.4 2.4 23.5
Acquired (21.3) 1.9 2.9 (0.8) 5.9 (11.4)
Credit/(charge) to income 1.6 – (6.7) 6.2 (5.4) (4.3)
Credit direct to comprehensive income – – (1.6) (4.9) – (6.5)
Share-based payments charged to equity – – 0.5 – – 0.5
At 30 June 2014 (20.3) 4.7 2.6 11.9 2.9 1.8
*
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31).
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributed to temporary differences relating to the following:
Assets Liabilities Total
2014
 £m
2013 
£m
2014
 £m
2013
 £m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Intangible assets – – (20.3) (0.6) (20.3) (0.6)
Property, plant and equipment 6.7 4.9 (2.0) (2.1) 4.7 2.8
Inventories 3.3 6.1 – – 3.3 6.1
Payables 8.7 12.3 (11.3) (11.8) (2.6) 0.5
Retirement benefit obligations 11.9 11.5 – – 11.9 11.5
Share-based payments 1.9 0.8 – – 1.9 0.8
Tax losses 2.9 2.4 – – 2.9 2.4
Total 35.4 38.0 (33.6) (14.5) 1.8 23.5
Set-off tax (33.6) (14.5) 33.6 14.5 – –
Net tax assets 1.8 23.5 – – 1.8 23.5
16 Inventories
2014 
£m
2013
 £m
Raw materials and consumables 23.9 4.1
Construction contracts in progress (note 17) 92.4 63.3
Land and work in progress held for development 331.4 322.2
Other work in progress 22.7 9.8
470.4 399.4
17 Construction contracts
Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date comprise contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less losses of £6,875.8m 
(2013: £7,576.3m), less progress billings received and receivable of £7,120.2m (2013: £7,845.3m).
The net balance is analysed into assets and liabilities as follows:
2014
 £m
2013 
£m
Inventories (note 16) 92.4 63.3
Trade and other payables (note 22) (336.8) (332.3)
(244.4) (269.0) 120
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
18 Trade and other receivables 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Current:
Trade receivables 358.4 233.1
Construction contract retentions 86.3 38.8
Amounts receivable from joint ventures 4.2 0.9
Other receivables 67.1 30.6
Prepayments and accrued income 59.1 42.2
Other taxation and social security 11.3 – 
586.4 345.6
Non-current:
Construction contract retentions 12.0 16.1
Other receivables 11.5 13.5
23.5 29.6
19 Assets held for sale
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Assets held for sale 10.4 4.2
This represents the assets of Justice Support Services (Norfolk and Suffolk) Holdings Limited, purchased by the Property division on 
31 March 2014 and held for resale (2013: relates to the plant business’ tower crane assets, sold by the Services division on 5 August 2013). 
Further details of these acquisitions and disposals are provided in note 30.
20 Cash, cash equivalents and borrowings
2014 
£m
2013
 £m
Cash and cash equivalents – bank balances and cash in hand 112.4 152.3
Borrowings due within 1 year (39.8) –
Borrowings due after 1 year (195.4) (92.5)
Net (borrowings)/funds (122.8) 59.8
Cash and cash equivalents include £31.9m (2013: £30.4m) being the Group’s share of cash and cash equivalents held by joint 
arrangements, £80.4m (2013: £48.3m) of cash that cannot be offset against other Group bank balances and £0.1m of restricted 
cash (2013: £3m).
Information on borrowings is detailed in note 27. Financial statements
121
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
21 Finance lease obligations
2014 2013
Future 
minimum
lease 
payments 
£m
Interest
 £m
Present 
value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m
Future 
minimum
lease 
payments 
£m
Interest
 £m
Present 
value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m
At 1 July 14.8 (1.1) 13.7 9.6 (1.0) 8.6
New obligations 43.1 (2.8) 40.3 7.1 (0.5) 6.6
Acquired obligations 66.8 (4.2) 62.6 – – –
Repayments (32.3) 2.7 (29.6) (1.9) 0.4 (1.5)
At 30 June 92.4 (5.4) 87.0 14.8 (1.1) 13.7
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
2014 2013
Future 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m
Interest 
£m
Present
 value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m
Future 
minimum
lease 
payments 
£m
Interest
 £m
Present 
value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m
Less than one year 29.5 (1.9) 27.6 3.1 (0.4) 2.7
Between two and five years 61.7 (3.5) 58.2 10.9 (0.6) 10.3
Over five years 1.2 – 1.2 0.8 (0.1) 0.7
At 30 June 92.4 (5.4) 87.0 14.8 (1.1) 13.7
22 Trade and other payables
2014
 £m
2013 
£m
Current:
Payments received on account 13.0 7.6
Trade payables 338.8 185.9
Sub-contract retentions 49.5 55.2
Construction contract balances (note 17) 336.8 332.3
Deferred consideration on acquisitions 1.0 27.7
Other taxation and social security 37.2 27.8
Other payables 34.7 22.0
Accruals and deferred income 170.4 96.0
Due to external joint ventures 1.3 – 
982.7 754.5
Non-current:
Trade payables 0.9 0.8
Sub-contract retentions 6.3 4.3
Accruals and deferred income 2.1 1.0
9.3 6.1 122
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
23 Provisions
2014 2013
Insurance 
claims 
£m
Restoration
 of mining 
sites
 £m
Other 
provisions 
£m
Total
 £m
Insurance 
claims 
£m
Restoration
 of mining 
sites
 £m
Other 
provisions 
£m
Total
 £m
At 1 July 27.2 16.8 13.4 57.4 19.6 13.7 16.3 49.6
Additions 8.4 – 0.8 9.2 13.1 4.9 6.9 24.9
Arising on acquisition – – 56.5 56.5 – – – –
Utilised (10.2) – (28.2) (38.4) (5.5) (3.1) (9.8) (18.4)
Unwinding of discount – 1.1 4.9 6.0 – 1.3 – 1.3
Transfers (8.0) (0.1) 1.1 (7.0) – – – –
At 30 June 17.4 17.8 48.5 83.7 27.2 16.8 13.4 57.4
Insurance provisions are in respect of legal and other disputes in various Group companies. Mining provisions represent the cost of 
restoration of opencast mining activities, see note 1 – mining assets. Other provisions primarily represent contractual obligations on 
cessation of certain contracts and fair value provisions of £33.3m arising on the acquisition of May Gurney (see note 30b).
It is anticipated that the amounts provided will be utilised as follows:
2014
 £m
2013
 £m
Due within one year 27.9 17.6
Due after one year 55.8 39.8
83.7 57.4
Due to the nature of the provision for insurance claims, the timing of any potential future outflows in respect of these liabilities is uncertain.
Future outflows in respect of the restoration of mining sites are expected to occur over the next three to eight years and future outflows in 
respect of other provisions are expected to occur over the next 12 years.
24 Share capital and reserves
Share capital
The share capital of the Company comprises:
Number
2014
 £m Number
2013
 £m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 1p each 55,264,354 0.6 39,848,072 0.4
On 8 July 2013 14,714,445 shares were issued in connection with the acquisition of May Gurney at a premium of £183,636,274 which was 
credited to the merger reserve. See note 30b for further details. During the year 491,764 shares were issued as a scrip dividend alternative 
at a premium of £8,206,868 and 210,073 shares were issued under the Sharesave Scheme at a premium of £2,168,532.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at 
meetings of the Company.
Cash flow hedge reserve
This reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments related to 
hedged transactions that have not yet occurred, together with any related deferred tax.
Translation reserve
This reserve comprises the cumulative difference on exchange arising from the retranslation of net investments in overseas subsidiary 
undertakings. In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS1, this reserve was set to nil at 1 July 2004.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose primarily on the shares issued at a premium to acquire May Gurney on 8 July 2013. Financial statements
123
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
25 Share-based payments
Options and awards over the Company’s ordinary shares at 30 June 2014 were as follows:
Formerly May Gurney
Sharesave
 Scheme
Sharesave 
Scheme
Sharesave 
Scheme
Sharesave 
Scheme
Sharesave 
Scheme
LTIP 2012 
award
LTIP 2013 
award
LTIP 2014
 award
Date of grant
28 Apr 
2011
27 Apr
 2012
03 May
 2013
6 Aug 
2011
30 July 
2012
17 Nov 
2011
13 Sept 
2012
21 Oct 
2013 Total 
Awards outstanding at 
30 June 2014
– directors – – – – – 78,872 95,815 77,091 251,778
– employees 76,645 484,398 338,578 70,928 127,850 424,437 490,521 478,820 2,492,177
 76,645 484,398 338,578 70,928 127,850 503,309 586,336 555,911 2,743,955
Exercise price (pence) 1,150 1,050 1,050 880 743 Nil Nil Nil
Sharesave Scheme
No options were granted in the year. Options under the Sharesave Scheme are all equity settled. The weighted average market price of Kier 
Group plc shares at the date of exercise of options was 1,473 pence.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Awards made under the scheme are normally able to vest following the third anniversary of the date of the grant. Vesting may be in full or in 
part (with the balance of the award lapsing) and is subject to the Group achieving specific performance targets. Awards under the LTIP are all 
equity settled.
The awards which are taken as shares are intended to be satisfied from the following shares held by the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit 
Trust and May Gurney Group Trustees Ltd ESOP Trust rather than from the issue of new shares. These shares are accounted for as a 
deduction from retained earnings.
Number 
of shares
2014
 £m
Number
 of shares
2013 
£m
At 1 July 455,686 6.1 612,489 10.1
Purchased during the year – – 140,546 2.0
May Gurney at date of acquisition 519,881 6.0 – –
Issued in satisfaction of awards and other schemes (238,775) (2.8) (297,349) (6.0)
At 30 June 736,792 9.3 455,686 6.1
The market value of these shares at 30 June 2014 was £13.0m (2013: £5.2m). The dividends on these shares have been waived.
A description of these schemes and the terms and conditions of each scheme are included in the directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 67 to 85.
Value of share schemes
The fair value per option granted has been calculated using the following assumptions. These calculations are based on the Black-Scholes 
model for all options apart from the TSR element of the LTIP which is based on a stochastic model.
Sharesave Schemes
Formerly May Gurney
Date of grant
28 April 
2011
27 April 
2012
3 May 
2013
6 August 
2011
30 July 
2012
Share price at grant (pence) 1,330.0 1,172.0 1,187.0 1,268.0 1,268.0
Exercise price (pence) 1,150.0 1,050.0 1,050.0 880.0 743.0
Option life (years) 3.0 3.0 3.0 1.36 2.36 
Expected volatility 38.5% 32.8% 27.2% 23.3% 27.8%
Dividend yield 4.5% 5.6% 5.6% 5.2% 5.2%
Risk-free interest rate 1.6% 0.7% 0.4% 0.4% 0.5%
Value per option (pence) 325.0 209.7 174.6 324.5 419.7
Former options under the May Gurney scheme granted to May Gurney employees were converted to options over Kier Group plc shares at 
the acquisition date. The option life shown above is the period from acquisition. 124
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
25 Share-based payments continued
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Date of grant
17 November
2011
(EPS element)
17 November
2011
(TRS element)
13 September
2012
(EPS element)
13 September
2012
(TSR element)
21 October
2013
(EPS element)
21 October
2013
(TSR element)
Share price at grant (pence) 1,398 1,398 1,399 1,399 1,797 1,797
Exercise price Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil
Option life (years) 3 3 3 3 3 3 
Expected volatility n/a 31.6% n/a 28.1% n/a 28.6%
Dividend yield 4.6% 4.6% 4.7% 4.7% 3.8% 3.8%
Risk-free interest rate n/a 0.7% n/a 0.4% n/a 0.8%
Value per option (pence) 1,218.5 868.9 1,214.3 627.8 1,604.2 1,366.7
The value per option represents the fair value of the option less the consideration payable.
The fair value of the TSR element incorporates an assessment of the number of shares that will be awarded, as the performance conditions 
are market conditions under IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payments’.
The performance conditions of the EPS element are non-market conditions under IFRS 2. The fair value therefore does not include an 
assessment of the number of shares that will be awarded. Instead the amount charged for this element is based on the fair value factored 
by a ‘true-up’ for the number of awards that are expected to vest.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years. The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK 
Government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
£4.0m relating to share-based payments has been recognised in the income statement as employee costs (2013: £4.0m). Included in other 
payables is an amount of £0.5m (2013: £0.3m) relating to provisions for employer’s national insurance.
A reconciliation of option movements is shown below:
2014 2013
Number
 of options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Number
 of options
Weighted 
average 
exercise
 price
Outstanding at 1 July 3,057,902 464.9p 3,483,182 533.8p
Converted from May Gurney schemes 345,201 744.0p – –
Forfeited (636,895) 265.8p (331,015) 381.6p
Exercised (592,482) 674.6p (1,192,027) 578.5p
Granted 570,229 – 1,097,762 504.3p
Outstanding at 30 June 2,743,955 404.3p 3,057,902 464.9p
Exercisable at 30 June – – – –
The options outstanding at 30 June 2014 have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.27 years (2013: 1.59 years). Financial statements
125
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
26 Guarantees and contingent liabilities
There are contingent liabilities in respect of performance bonds, guarantees and claims under contracting and other arrangements, 
including joint arrangements and joint ventures, entered into in the normal course of business.
27 Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Group’s capital management objectives are: to ensure the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern; to optimise the capital 
structure in order to minimise the cost of capital; and to maintain a strong balance sheet to support business development and tender 
qualification. The three operating divisions of the Group have complementary capital characteristics, with the Construction division, and to  
a lesser extent the Services division, generating a net cash surplus, whilst the Property division requires net capital to fund developments. 
The Group’s capital management strategy is to use a blend of capital types with different risk, return and maturity profiles to support the 
operating divisions and deliver the Group’s capital management objectives. The Group’s overall capital risk management strategy remains 
unchanged from 2013.
The capital structure of the Group comprises: equity, consisting of share capital, share premium, retained earnings and other reserves 
as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity; and cash, cash equivalents and borrowings as disclosed in note 20 and 
described further below. The Group forecasts and monitors short, medium and longer-term capital needs on a regular basis and adjusts 
its capital structure as required through the payment of dividends to shareholders, the issue of new share capital and the increase or 
repayment of borrowings. All investment decisions are made with regard to the Group’s weighted average cost of capital and typically 
a pre-tax annualised return of at least 15% is required to ensure such investments are value enhancing for shareholders.
Financial risk management
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed. In the course of its business, the Group is exposed primarily 
to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk. The overall aim of the Group’s financial risk management policies is to minimise any potential 
adverse effects on financial performance and net assets.
The Group’s treasury team manages the principal financial risks within policies and operating limits approved by the Board. Treasury is not a 
profit centre and does not enter into speculative transactions. Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposure to fluctuations in 
interest and exchange rates.
Credit risk
Credit risk arises on financial instruments such as trade receivables, short-term bank deposits and interest rate and currency hedges.
Policies and procedures exist to ensure that customers have an appropriate credit history. The Group’s most significant clients are public or 
regulated industry entities which generally have high credit ratings or are of a high credit quality due to the nature of the client.
Short-term bank deposits and hedging transactions are executed only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties based on ratings 
issued by the major ratings agencies. Counterparty exposure positions are monitored regularly so that credit exposures to any one 
counterparty are within predetermined limits. At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Trade and other receivables included in the balance sheet are stated net of a bad debt provision which has been estimated by management 
following a review of individual, receivable accounts. There is no Group-wide rate of provision and provision made for debts that are overdue 
is based on prior default experience and known factors at the balance sheet date. Receivables are written off against the bad debt provision 
when management considers that the debt is no longer recoverable.
An analysis of the provision held against trade receivables is set out below.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Provision as at 1 July 1.3 1.2
Acquired in the year 1.8 –
Charged/(credited) to the income statement (0.8) 0.1
Provision as at 30 June 2.3 1.3
There were £48.8m (2013: £13.2m) of trade receivables that were overdue at the balance sheet date that have not been provided against, 
of which £37.8m (2013: £7.7m) had been received by the end of August 2014. There are no indications as at 30 June 2014 that the debtors 
will not meet their payment obligations in respect of the amount of trade receivables recognised in the balance sheet that are overdue and 
unprovided. The proportion of trade receivables at 30 June 2014 that were overdue for payment was 13.6% (2013: 5.7%). Credit terms vary 
across the Group; the average age of trade receivables was as follows:
Construction 36 days (2013: 46 days)
Services  41 days (2013: 34 days)
Overall, the Group considers that it is not exposed to significant credit risk. 126
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
27 Financial instruments continued
Market risk
Interest rate risk
The Group has borrowing facilities to finance short-term working capital requirements and term loans to finance medium-term capital 
requirements, which carry interest at floating rates, at a margin over LIBOR. The Group’s borrowings can be analysed as follows:
2014
 £m
2013
 £m
Fixed rate 62.7 62.7
Variable rate 172.5 29.8
235.2 92.5
In addition, a number of the Group’s PFI joint ventures have entered into interest rate swaps.
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates primarily within the UK such that its exposure to currency risk is not considered to be significant. Where significant 
foreign currency exposures are identified, these are hedged using forward foreign exchange contracts or swaps.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on liquidity risk is to ensure that sufficient borrowing facilities are available to fund operations without the need to carry 
significant net debt over the medium term. The Group’s principal borrowing facilities are provided by a Group of relationship banks in the 
form of unsecured committed borrowing facilities. The amount of committed borrowing facilities available to the Group is reviewed regularly 
and is designed to exceed forecast peak gross debt levels.
Derivative financial instruments
At 30 June 2014
Current 
liabilities
 £m
Non-current 
liabilities
 £m
Total
 liabilities 
£m
Fuel price forward contracts 0.1 0.3 0.4
Fuel price forward contracts have been accounted for as derivatives held at fair value through the income statement. The fair value of these 
contracts has been determined based on a level 2 valuation method, using valuation techniques that include inputs that are based on 
observable market data.
During 2013 Kier Group plc entered in to three cross-currency fixed interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate and currency risk on a 
US dollar denominated loan, nominal value USD28m. These swaps have continued to meet the criteria for hedge accounting and as a result 
have been recognised directly in equity.
The following table indicates the periods in which the cashflows associated with cash flow hedges are expected to occur, how those 
cashflows will impact the income statement and the fair value of the related hedging instruments.
Expected cash flows
Fair value 
£m
Total
 £m
0-1 years
 £m
1-2 years 
£m
2-5 years
 £m
More than
5 years
 £m
Interest rate swaps:
Liabilities 1.7 6.7 0.9 0.9 2.7 2.2
In addition to the above, a number of the Group’s PFI joint ventures have entered into interest rate derivatives as a means of hedging interest 
rate risk. Interest-bearing debts and associated interest rate derivatives within these joint ventures have a typical term of between 25 and 
30 years and are without recourse to the Group. At 30 June 2014 the aggregate amount outstanding on these interest-bearing debts against 
which interest rate derivatives are held is £111.4m. The Group’s share of the total net fair value liability of these interest rate derivatives at 
30 June 2014, based on quoted prices in active markets, amounted to £11.8m which, together with the related deferred tax asset of £2.7m, 
have met the criteria for hedge accounting and as a result have been recognised directly in equity. Financial statements
127
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
Financial assets
Loans and receivables at amortised cost, cash and cash equivalents: 2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 112.4 152.3
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 550.8 333.0
663.2 485.3
Included in the above are £23.5m of trade and other receivables due after more than one year.
Financial liabilities – analysis of maturity dates
At 30 June 2014 the Group had the following financial liabilities together with the maturity profile of their contractual cash flows:
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
30 June 2014
Trade and
other
 payables*
 £m
Deferred 
consideration 
on acquisition
 £m
Borrowings 
£m
Finance 
lease 
obligations 
£m
Derivative
financial
 instruments
 £m
Total
 £m
Carrying value 940.8 1.0 235.2 87.0 2.1 1,266.1
Contractual cash flows
Less than one year 931.5 1.0 45.0 29.5 1.0 998.6
One to two years 9.3 – 5.2 24.3 1.0 48.9
Two to three years – – 84.1 21.0 1.1 106.2
Three to four years – – 3.5 11.4 0.9 15.8
Four to five years – – 55.1 5.0 0.9 61.0
Over five years – – 66.7 1.2 2.2 70.1
940.8 1.0 259.6 92.4 7.1 1,300.9
30 June 2013
†
   
Carrying value 697.5 27.7 92.5 13.7 0.6 832.0
Contractual cash flows
Less than one year 691.4 28.1 2.9 3.1 0.1 725.6
One to two years 6.1 – 2.9 3.0 0.2 12.2
Two to three years – – 2.9 3.0 0.3 6.2
Three to four years – – 32.9 2.8 – 35.7
Four to five years – – 2.9 2.1 – 5.0
Over five years – – 71.8 0.8 – 72.6
697.5 28.1 116.3 14.8 0.6 857.3
*
 Trade and other payables excludes deferred consideration, deferred income, taxes and social security and payments on account.
†
 The prior year comparatives have been re-presented to include sub-contract retentions, construction contract balances and accruals.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. The carrying value 
is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows.
The Group’s derivatives are classified as level 2.
Borrowings and borrowing facilities 
The Group has the following unsecured committed facilities: 
• Revolving credit facility £190m, at a margin over LIBOR, due for renewal in September 2018, £55.0m drawn at 30 June 2014 (2013: £nil)
• Two term loans at a margin over LIBOR, £50m repayable September 2016 and £30m, repayable January 2017, fully drawn at 30 June 
2014, £80m (2013: £30m); and
• Two loan notes, principal amounts of £45m and USD28m with fixed coupons of between 4.2% and 4.9%, repayable in two repayments, 
December 2019 and December 2022, fully drawn at 30 June 2014, £62.7m (2013: £62.7m).
In addition the Group has an unsecured overdraft of £45m (2013: £20m), at a margin over LIBOR, repayable on demand, £39.8m drawn 
at 30 June 2014 (2013: £nil).
The committed facilities are subject to certain covenants linked to the Group’s financing structure, specifically regarding the ratios of debt 
to interest and profit, and consolidated net worth. The Group has complied with these covenants throughout the period.
Included within borrowing are capitalised loan fees of £2.3m (2013: £0.2m).  128
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
28 Financial and capital commitments
2014
 £m
2013
£m
Commitments for capital expenditure 7.3 2.3
Commitments for equity and subordinate debt in PFI joint ventures 23.4 25.2
30.7 27.5
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2014 2013
Property 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Property 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Within one year 6.3 19.7 4.3 16.5
Between one and five years 16.4 23.9 7.7 25.2
Over five years 11.1 1.6 6.3 2.3
 33.8 45.2 18.3 44.0
The Group leases properties and vehicles for operational purposes. Property leases vary considerably in length up to a maximum period 
beyond 30 June 2014 of 14 years. Vehicle leases typically run for a period of four years. None of the leases include contingent rentals.
29 Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its joint arrangements, key management personnel and pension schemes in which its 
employees participate.
Transactions with key management personnel
The Group’s key management personnel are the executive and non-executive directors as identified in the directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 67 to 85.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to directors and contributes to their pension arrangements as 
disclosed on page 77. Key management personnel also participate in the Group’s share option programme (see note 25).
Key management personnel compensation comprised:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Total emoluments as analysed in the directors’ remuneration report 3.2 3.0
Employer’s national insurance contributions 0.4 0.4
Total short-term employment benefits 3.6 3.4
Share-based payment charge 0.7 0.8
 4.3 4.2 Financial statements
129
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
Transactions with pension schemes
Details of transactions between the Group and pension schemes in which its employees participate are detailed in note 8.
Transactions with joint arrangements and joint ventures
2014 
£m
2013
 £m
Staff and associated costs 38.1 42.3
Management services 0.5 0.7
Interest on loans to joint ventures 1.5 1.3
 40.1 44.3
Amounts due from joint ventures are analysed below:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Information Resources (Oldham) Limited 0.9 0.9
Kier Hammersmith Limited 6.6 –
Salford Village Limited 2.0 –
Watford Health Campus Partnership LP 0.2 –
Biogen Holdings Limited (2.0) –
Justice Support Services (Norfolk and Suffolk) Limited – 3.4
Justice Support Services (North Kent) Limited – 1.9
Kent PFI Company 1 Limited – 6.1
7.7 12.3
30 Acquisitions and disposals
(a) Summary of consideration paid and payable in respect of acquisitions
 Beco Limited
£m
Kier 
Developments 
Limited
 £m
North 
Tyneside 
Council
 £m
Pure 
Recycling
£m
May
Gurney
£m
Total
 £m
Discounted balance payments at 30 June 2012 0.9 54.5 1.8 1.5 – 58.7
Credited to the income statement (0.7) – – (0.3) – (1.0)
Paid during the year to 30 June 2013 (0.3) (30.0) – (1.2) – (31.5)
Unwinding of discount 0.2 1.2 0.1 – – 1.5
Discounted balance payments at 30 June 2013 0.1 25.7 1.9 – – 27.7
Acquisition of May Gurney (note 30b) – – – – 38.5 38.5
Paid during the year to 30 June 2014 (0.1) (26.0) (1.0) – (38.5) (65.6)
Unwinding of discount – 0.3 0.1 – – 0.4
Balance payable at 30 June 2014 – – 1.0 – – 1.0 130
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
30 Acquisitions and disposals continued
(b) Acquisition of May Gurney 
The Group purchased the entire share capital of May Gurney on 8 July 2013 for a total consideration of £222.3m. May Gurney provides 
support services and delivers a wide range of essential front-line services to the public and regulated sectors. The acquisition represented 
an excellent opportunity to accelerate Kier’s strategy for its Services division. The Kier Board believes the acquisition is highly 
complementary and will provide an increased breadth of services, skills, geographic coverage and operating efficiencies, representing an 
attractive proposition for its clients (and those of the enlarged Group) and enhanced value for the shareholder base of the enlarged Group.
The fair value of the intangible assets acquired represents the fair value of customer contracts at the date of acquisition. During the second 
half of the year we continued to review the fair value of the May Gurney net assets acquired and, subsequent to the issue of the interim 
results as at 31 December 2013, further adjustments were made, principally to provisions for contract losses, current tax asset and 
deferred tax liabilities. The fair value of the assets acquired was estimated at 31 December 2013 at £30.4m and the amendments to 
30 June 2014, which will not change, reduce the fair value of the net assets acquired to £27.6m.
The goodwill arising on acquisition is attributable to the knowledge and expertise of the assembled workforce and the operating synergies 
that arise from the Group’s strengthened market position. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
£8.1m (2013: £1.8m) of acquisition costs were incurred in the year and expensed to the income statement as an exceptional item.
Fair value
to the
Group
£m
Intangible assets 106.7
Property, plant and equipment 87.1
Inventories 64.0
Trade receivables 76.2
Trade and other payables (152.2)
Overdraft (16.8)
Borrowings (20.0)
Taxation 9.4
Deferred tax liabilities (11.4)
Retirement benefit obligations 3.7
Obligations under finance leases (62.6)
Provisions (56.5)
27.6
Goodwill 194.7
Total assets acquired 222.3
Satisfied by:
Shares 183.8
Cash* 38.5
Total consideration 222.3
*
 Cash consideration includes a dividend of £3.8m.
The pro forma consolidated results of the Group, as if the acquisition of May Gurney Integrated Services plc had been made at the beginning 
of the year, would include revenue from continuing operations of £2,999.9m (compared to the Group revenue of £2,985.2m) and underlying 
profit before taxation of £72.6m (compared to the reported underlying profit before taxation of £73.1m). In preparing the pro forma results, 
revenue and costs have been included as if the businesses were acquired on 1 July 2013 and the inter-company transactions have been 
eliminated. This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of the combined Group that would have occurred had the purchase 
actually been made at the beginning of the year, or indicative of the future results of the combined Group.
The May Gurney business contributed to the Group, revenue of £697m and underlying profit before taxation of £32.8m for the period 8 July 
2013 to 30 June 2014. Financial statements
131
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Governance
(c) Deemed disposal of investment in joint venture and subsequent acquisition as a subsidiary of Justice Support 
Services (Norfolk and Suffolk) Holdings Limited
On 4 April 2014 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Justice Support Services (Norfolk and Suffolk) Holdings Limited (JSS). 
JSS had previously been held as a joint venture of which the Group had a 42.5% holding. On 17 February 2014 the Group increased its 
holding in JSS from 42.5% to 57.5% at a cost of £0.7m. JSS continued to be classified as a joint venture as joint control remained in place. 
The remaining 42.5% of the share capital of JSS was acquired from the joint venture partner on 4 April 2014 for £4.0m. This transaction has 
been treated as a deemed disposal of a joint venture (see below) and subsequent acquisition of a subsidiary. A gain of £1.1m arose on the 
deemed disposal of the joint venture.
The gain on deemed disposal of the joint venture is calculated as follows:
£m
Deemed consideration 5.4 
Cost of investment (4.3)
Gain on deemed disposal 1.1 
Provisional fair values of assets and liabilities at acquisition:
Provisional
carrying
value at
acquisition
£m
Non-current assets 65.6 
Current assets 2.2 
Cash at bank 4.8 
Current liabilities (5.1)
Borrowings (57.7)
9.8 
Negative goodwill (0.4)
Total assets acquired 9.4 
Satisfied by:
Cash 4.0 
Deemed consideration 5.4
Total consideration 9.4 
Subsequent to the acquisition on 4 April 2014, but before 30 June, the Group decided to dispose of JSS within 12 months of the balance 
sheet date and negotiations are ongoing with a number of interested parties. As a result at the balance sheet date JSS is held as an asset 
held for resale.
(d) Disposal of investments in joint ventures
During the year the Group, through its subsidiary Kier Project Investment Limited, sold its investments in the following joint ventures:
Justice Support Services (North Kent) Holdings Limited and Kent PFI Holdings Company 1 Limited.
The disposal proceeds can be reconciled to the profit on disposal as follows:
2014
 £m
2013
£m
Sales proceeds 17.3 13.0
Book value of net assets and loans of joint ventures (9.4) (3.1)
Intangible assets sold (1.8)
–
Sale costs – (0.1)
Profit on disposal 6.1 9.8 132
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 continued
30 Acquisitions and disposals continued 
(e) Sale of plant business
On 5 August 2013, the Group through its subsidiary Kier Plant Limited, sold the remainder of its plant business (tower cranes) for a 
consideration of £5.2m. The total impact of this disposal is a loss of £2.6m which was recorded in the income statement in the year to June 
2013 as an exceptional item. The disposal proceeds can be reconciled to the loss as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Maximum aggregate consideration 5.2 14.5
Less provision for disposal costs (1.0) (1.5)
Fair value less provision for disposal costs 4.2 13.0
Carrying value of assets sold (6.8) (16.2)
Loss (2.6) (3.2)
The carrying value of the assets sold was originally held in property, plant and equipment.
The loss on disposal in 2013 was recorded in the income statement in the year to 30 June 2012 as an exceptional item.
31. Change of accounting policy
The amendment to IAS 19 has changed the accounting for defined benefit schemes and termination benefits. The interest cost and 
expected return on scheme assets used in the previous version of IAS 19 have been replaced with a net interest cost which is calculated by 
applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit obligation. The amendment has a corresponding impact on the actuarial gains and losses 
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, with no overall change to the net retirement benefit liability in the balance sheet.
The Group adopted the amendment to IAS 19 on 1 July 2013 and has restated prior year information, which had the following impact on 
reported profit, earnings per share and comprehensive income in 2013:
Statement of comprehensive income
Actuarial 
losses 
£m
Deferred tax 
£m
 2013 
Total 
£m
As previously reported (24.2) 2.9 (21.3)
Impact of amendment to IAS 19 17.1 (4.1) 13.0
Restated (7.1) (1.2) (8.3)
Income statement
Profit 
before
 tax 
£m
Taxation 
£m
 2013 
Profit 
after tax
£m
As previously reported 43.0 (4.4) 38.6
Impact of amendment to IAS 19
Operating profit (14.2) 3.4 (10.8)
Finance costs (2.9) 0.7 (2.2)
(17.1) 4.1 (13.0)
Restated 25.9 (0.3) 25.6
Earnings per share (pence) Basic Diluted Adjusted
As previously reported 95.8 94.8 136.2
Impact of amendment to IAS 19 (33.2) (32.8) (33.1)
Impact of representation of acquisition discount unwind* – – 2.5
Restated 62.6 62.0 105.6
*
 Unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration.
32. Subsequent events
On 29 August 2014 the Group, through its subsidiary Kier Project Investment Limited, sold its 50% holding in Information Resources (Oldham) 
Holdings Limited for a total consideration of £2.4m. The expected impact of this disposal is a profit of £1.2m before disposal costs. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
133
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes
2014 
£m
2013
£m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries 5 384.2 90.3
Current assets
Debtors 6 2.9 8.7
Cash and cash equivalents 156.7 139.3
159.6 148.0
Current liabilities
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 7 (29.0) (39.7)
Net current assets 130.6 108.3
Total assets less current liabilities 514.8 198.6
Non-current liabilities
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year 7 (195.4) (92.5)
Net assets 319.4 106.1
Shareholders’ funds
Share capital 8 0.6 0.4
Share premium 9 73.7 63.3
Merger reserve 9 184.8 1.2
Capital redemption reserve 9 2.7 2.7
Profit and loss account 9 57.6 38.5
Total shareholders’ funds 10 319.4 106.1
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 17 September 2014 and were signed on its behalf by:
Haydn Mursell
Director
 
Company balance sheet
At 30 June 2014
(registered company number 2708030) 134
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2014 
1 Accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, on the going concern basis and in accordance with  
applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006.
Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are included in the balance sheet at cost less any provision for diminution in value.
Deferred taxation
In accordance with FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’, deferred taxation is provided fully and on a non-discounted basis at expected future corporation 
tax rates in respect of timing differences between profits computed for taxation and accounts purposes.
Own shares
The cost of the Company’s investment in its own shares, which comprises shares held by the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust for the 
purpose of funding the Company’s share option plans, is shown as a reduction in shareholders’ funds in the profit and loss account.
Share-based payments
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments under the Sharesave and LTIP schemes. The fair value of these schemes at the 
date of grant is expressed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Financial instruments
The Company’s principal financial assets and liabilities are cash at bank and borrowings. Cash at bank is carried in the balance sheet at 
nominal value. Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
The consolidated financial statements include disclosures in note 27 under IFRS 7 which comply with FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments and 
Disclosures’. Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of certain exemptions in FRS 29 from the requirement to present separate 
financial instrument disclosures for the Company.
2 Profit for the year
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for  
the year.
The auditor’s remuneration for audit services to the Company was £0.1m (2013: £0.1m). 
3 Information relating to directors and employees
Information relating to directors’ emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and LTIP interests appears in the directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 67 to 85. The Company has no employees other than the directors.
4 Dividends
Details of the dividends paid by the Company are included in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
5 Fixed assets – investments
£m
Cost at 30 June 2013 105.3
Additions 278.9
Cost at 30 June 2014 384.2
Provision for diminution in value
At 30 June 2013 (15.0)
Write back to the profit and loss account 15.0
At 30 June 2014 –
Net book value at
30 June 2014 384.2
30 June 2013 90.3
The directors believe that the carrying value of investments is supported by the present value of the forecast future cash flows generated by 
those investments. Given the improvement in the future forecast cash flows of Kier Living Limited the provisions for the diminution in respect 
of this investment has been written back to the profit and loss account. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
135
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
6 Debtors
2014 
£m
2013
 £m
Other debtors 2.6 5.6
Deferred tax 1.0 0.7
Corporation tax (0.7) 2.4
 2.9 8.7
7 Creditors
2014
 £m
2013
 £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts due to Group undertakings 27.8 36.8
Other creditors 1.2 2.9
 29.0 39.7
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Borrowings 195.4 92.5
Further details on borrowings are included in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
8 Share capital
Details of the share capital of the Company are included in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
9 Reserves
The movement in reserves is as follows:
Share capital 
£m
Share 
premium
 £m
Merger
 reserve 
£m
Capital
 redemption 
reserve 
£m
Profit 
and loss 
account 
£m
Total
£m
At 30 June 2012 0.4 55.0 1.2 2.7 38.7 98.0
Issue of own shares – 8.3 – – – 8.3
Movement in provision for share-based payments – – – – 4.0 4.0
Purchase of own shares – – – – (1.7) (1.7)
Profit for the year – – – – 23.3 23.3
Dividends paid – – – – (25.8) (25.8)
At 30 June 2013 0.4 63.3 1.2 2.7 38.5 106.1
Issue of own shares 0.2 10.4 183.6 – – 194.2
Movement in provision for share-based payments – – – – 3.7 3.7
Purchase of own shares – – – – (1.1) (1.1)
Profit for the year – – – – 53.8 53.8
Dividends paid – – – – (37.3) (37.3)
At 30 June 2014 0.6 73.7 184.8 2.7 57.6 319.4
Included in the profit and loss account is the balance on the sharescheme reserve which comprises the investment in own shares of £4.7m 
(2013: £6.0m) and a credit balance on the sharescheme reserve of £7.3m (2013: £7.0m).
Details of the shares held by the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust and of the share-based payment schemes are included in note 25 
to the consolidated financial statements. 136
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Principal operating subsidiaries and business units
Construction Kier Construction Limited 
Building 
 Central 
 Eastern  
 London 
 Major Projects 
 Northern 
 Scotland 
 Southern 
 Western & Wales 
 Strategic Frameworks and Alliances
Specialist businesses 
 Engineering 
 Process & Engineering
Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited
Services Kier Services Limited 
Housing Maintenance 
 Kier Harlow Limited 
 Kier Islington Limited 
 Kier North Tyneside Limited 
 Kier Sheffield LLP 
 Kier Stoke Limited
Facilities Management 
 Kier Facilities Services Limited
Environmental 
 Pure Buildings Limited 
 Pure Recycling Warwick Limited
Asset Management 
 Kier Asset Partnership Services Limited
Energy Solutions 
 Kier Energy Solutions Limited
Insurance Management 
  Kier Insurance Management Services Limited
Plant and Fleet Management 
 Kier Plant Limited
Kier May Gurney 
 Kier MGIS Limited 
 Kier MG Limited 
 Kier MG Estates Limited 
 Kier MG Recycling Limited 
 Kier FPS Limited 
 Tor2 Limited
Property Kier Property Limited 
Kier Developments Limited 
Kier Ventures Limited
Kier Project Investment Limited
Kier Homes Limited 
Kier Partnership Homes Limited
Corporate Kier Limited
Notes:
i) Each company is registered in England and Wales and operates 
principally within the United Kingdom. Kier Infrastructure and 
Overseas Limited also operates in Hong Kong, the Middle East  
and the Caribbean.
ii) The Group has entered into partnership agreements with Harlow 
Council, North Tyneside Council, Sheffield City Council and Stoke-on-
Trent City Council whereby the respective councils have a participating 
ownership interest and receive a minority share of the profits of Kier 
Harlow Limited, Kier North Tyneside Limited, Kier Sheffield LLP and 
Kier Stoke Limited.
iii) The ordinary share capital of all other companies is wholly owned.  
Kier Group plc holds directly all the shares of Kier Limited and Kier 
Homes Limited and Kier MG is Limited. The shares of the other 
companies are held by subsidiary undertakings.
iv) The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under section 
410 of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in 
relation to subsidiary undertakings whose results principally affected 
the financial statements. A full listing of all subsidiary undertakings 
will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
137
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Principal joint arrangements
Joint arrangements
Construction 
The following joint arrangements, in which the Group participation 
is between 30% and 50%, operate in the United Kingdom:
KMI Plus a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure 
and Overseas Limited, J Murphy & Sons Limited, 
Interserve Project Services Limited and Mouchel 
Limited
KMI a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure 
and Overseas Limited, J Murphy & Sons Limited 
and Interserve Project Services Limited
Crossrail 
Contracts 
300/410/435
a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure 
and Overseas Limited, BAM Nuttall Limited and 
Ferrovial Agroman (UK) Limited
Crossrail 
Contracts 
501/511
a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure 
and Overseas Limited and BAM Nuttall Limited
Hinkley 
Point C
a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure 
and Overseas Limited and BAM Nuttall Limited
The following joint arrangements, in which the Group participation is 
between 30% and 65%, operate overseas in the territory indicated:
Hong Kong
MTRC  
Contract 824
a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure 
and Overseas Limited, Kaden Construction Limited 
and Obras Subterráneas S.A.
MTRC 
Contract 901
a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure 
and Overseas Limited, Laing O’Rourke Hong Kong 
Limited and Kaden Construction Limited
Joint ventures
Interest held
Construction 
Incorporated and operating in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia:
 Saudi Comedat Co. 25%
Property
 Solum Regeneration Limited Partnership 
 Biogen Holdings Limited 
 Kier Sydenham Limited Partnership 
 Kier Hammersmith Limited 
 Watford Health Campus Partnership LLP
50%
50%
50%
50%
50%
Long-term concession holding under 
the Private Finance Initiative
 Information Resources (Oldham) Holdings Limited 
 Salford Village Limited 
 Blue 3 ( London) (Holdings) Limited 
 Blue 3 (Staffs) (Holdings) Limited 
 Evolution (Woking) Holdings Limited
50%
25%
50%
80%
50%
Notes:
i) Joint operations are contracted agreements to co-operate on 
a specific project which is an extension of the Group’s existing 
business. Joint ventures are ongoing businesses carrying on their  
own trade.
ii) Except where otherwise stated the companies are incorporated and 
operate in the United Kingdom.
iii) Interests in the above joint ventures are held by subsidiary 
undertakings.
iv) The joint ventures where the Group has an interest in excess of 50% 
are still considered joint ventures as the Group still has joint control. 138
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial record
(unaudited)
Year ended 30 June
2014
*
£m
2013
*†
 
£m
2012*
†
 
£m
2011
*†
 
£m
2010
*†
 
£m
Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures 2,985.2 1,982.8 2,069.2 2,178.8 2,098.7
Profit
Group operating profit 80.3 44.8 55.0 56.3 61.5
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 1.6 0.9 1.3 0.4 (1.3)
Profit on disposal of joint ventures 6.1 9.8 6.7 5.9 4.2
Underlying operating profit 88.0 55.5 63.0 62.6 64.4
Underlying net finance cost (14.9) (7.9) (3.0) (4.0) (7.0)
Underlying profit before tax 73.1 47.6 60.0 58.6 57.4
Exceptional items (42.2) (17.0) (3.6) 7.0 (2.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights (10.8) (3.4) (3.4) (3.4) (2.9)
Non-underlying net finance cost (5.3) (1.3) (2.3) (0.4) – 
Profit before tax 14.8 25.9 50.7 61.8 52.5
Adjusted basic earnings per share 107.7p 105.6p 136.9p 127.9p 121.3p
Dividend per share 72.0p 68.0p 66.0p 64.0p 58.0p
At 30 June
Shareholders’ funds (£m) 309.7 158.3 154.2 164.2 104.2
Net assets per share 560.4p 397.3p 397.2p 430.3p 278.0p
*
 Non-underlying items include one-off costs related to restructuring, acquisitions and business closures, amortisation of contract right costs held 
as intangibles on the balance sheet and unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition. 
Years 2013, 2012 and 2011 comparatives have been re-presented to reflect this presentation. 
†
 Restated to reflect the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31). Strategic report Governance Financial statements
139
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate information
Board of directors
P M White CBE FCA – Chairman
H J Mursell BA ACA
S Bowcott BSc
R C Bailey BA ACA
A K Bashforth MA
A J Mellor BSc FCIS
N P Winser CEng FIET FIGEM
Secretary
H E E Raven BA 
Headquarters and registered office
Kier Group plc
Tempsford Hall
Sandy
Bedfordshire
SG19 2BD
Registered number
England 2708030
Financial calendar
13 November 2014
Annual general meeting
28 November 2014
Payment of final dividend for year ended 30 June 2014
February 2015
Announcement of half-year results and interim dividend for year 
ending 30 June 2015
May 2015
Payment of interim dividend for year ending 30 June 2015
September 2015
Announcement of preliminary full-year results and final dividend for 
year ending 30 June 2015
Auditor
KPMG LLP
15 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5GL
Principal bankers
Lloyds Banking Group plc
10 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7AE
HSBC Bank plc
Metropolitan House
321 Avebury Boulevard
Milton Keynes
MK9 2GA
Santander UK plc
2 Triton Square
Regent’s Place
London
NW1 3AN
The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC
280 Bishopsgate
London
EC2M 4RB
Registrars
Capita Asset Services
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Yorkshire
HD8 0LA
Financial advisers
J. P. Morgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6DA
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT Go online to find out more
Our corporate website has key information covering 
our capabilities, markets, corporate responsibility 
and investor relations.
www.kier.co.uk Printed on Amadeus Primo Silk which is produced using 
wood fibre from fully sustainable forests with FSC 
certification. All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free 
(ECF). The manufacturing mill holds the ISO 14001 and 
EU Ecolabel certificates for environmental management.
Designed and produced by Luminous
www.luminous.co.uk Kier Group plc Annual Report 2014
