 Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
International retail
local detail Contents
2 Strategy at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
6 Chief Executive’s review
8 Markets
10 Customers
11 Stores
12 People
14 Suppliers and Kingfisher
16 Innovation
18 Corporate responsibility
Operating review
20 UK
24 France
26 Rest of Europe
28 Asia
30 Financial review
32 Risks
34 Board of Directors and 
Senior management
36 Directors’ report
38 Directors’ responsibility statement
39 Corporate Governance report
43 Remuneration report
52 Audit Committee report
52 Nomination Committee report
53 Consolidated income statement
54 Consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense
55 Consolidated balance sheet
56 Consolidated cash flow statement
57 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
90 Independent auditors’ report
91 Company balance sheet
92 Notes to the Company 
financial statements
102 Independent auditors’ report
103 Kingfisher plc Five year history
104 Shareholder information
Kingfisher plc
Kingfisher is building a strong, international 
home improvement business to provide
shareholders with sustainable, long-term growth
and returns.
Kingfisher is the leading home improvement
retailer in Europe and Asia, and the third largest 
in the world.
Kingfisher operates over 700 stores in 11 countries,
with leading market positions in the UK, France,
Poland, Italy, Turkey, China and Taiwan, as well as
developing businesses in another four countries.
Kingfisher is included in two
socially responsible indices,
the FTSE4Good and Dow
Jones Sustainability Indexes.
Dow Jones
Sustainability Indexes
Member 2006/07 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 1
Market Brands Stores Selling space Employees
*
position (000s sq m) (full-time equivalent)
No.1
324 2,315 26,273
38 4 2,033
4 15 179
No.1
98 959 11,943
81 434 5,641
Poland No.1
34 287 6,085
14 71
Italy No.2
27 171 2,043
Turkey No.1
10 55 1,139
Ireland
7 46 494
Spain
10 51 557
Russia
3 27 773
Germany
China No.1
58 553 10,675
Taiwan No.1
21 97 1,841
South Korea
2 12 182
*All figures as at 3 February 2007 Total 718 5,030 69,929
Asia
5% of 
retail sales
See page 28
Strategic alliance. A 21% interest in Hornbach,
which operates over 120 stores in Germany and
seven neighbouring countries.
Rest of
Europe
12% of 
retail sales
See page 26
France
34% of 
retail sales
See page 24
UK
49% of 
retail sales
See page 20 on key competitive advantages: buying
scale and international diversity.
Capitalising
2 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
B&Q and Castorama’s leadership
positions in the UK and France, mainly
by improving sales, margin and cost
productivity in existing stores.
proven growth businesses, with
significant scope to expand their store
network and grow market share.
new opportunities for growth.
Strategy at a glance
Four strategic priorities
Strengthening
Expanding
Establishing Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 3
B&Q UK and Castorama France
B&Q UK made progress with its four operational
drivers – price competitiveness, customer service,
new products and store environment. A key
development in the year was the successful trial
of a new large-store format which will form the
blueprint for revamping all of B&Q’s 115 large
stores. With new customer service initiatives and
new ranges also performing well, management
remains confident that an eventual 25%
improvement in sales productivity from existing
larger stores is achievable. By the end of the year,
Brico Dépôt France, Castorama Poland and
Italy, B&Q China, Taiwan and Ireland and
Screwfix Direct in the UK 
To support continued expansion, £182 million, 40%
of Kingfisher’s total capital investment for the year,
was invested in these businesses. Fifty-six new
stores were opened in the year taking the total in
this category to nearly 270, with a similar number
planned to open in 2007/08.
In France, Brico Dépôt added 10 new stores
taking its total to 81. A major new system upgrade
was implemented to enhance competitiveness and
Brico Dépôt in Spain, Castorama in Russia,
Ko
5
ctas
5
in Turkey, B&Q Home in South Korea
and Trade Depot in the UK.
During the year, £51 million was invested in these
developing businesses, 11% of Kingfisher’s total
capital spend. Twelve stores opened in the year
taking the total trading to 29. In Turkey, Ko
5
ctas
5
is now profitable after expansion costs and
Brico Dépôt Spain is also on track to overall
profitability within the next 12-18 months. Trials
continued into the second year at Trade Depot,
which opened two more stores to serve the
During the year, Kingfisher continued to bring
new products to market, develop its own-brands
and extend direct sourcing from low-cost countries.
Kingfisher continued to develop its network
of overseas sourcing offices in Europe and Asia.
Direct sourcing shipments totalled around
US$700 million, an increase of over 20% on the
previous year.
Progress in 2006/07
two new stores and nine revamped stores were
trading in the new format. B&Q plans to convert
all the remaining large stores to this format over
the next four years, with a further 25 conversions
planned for 2007/08 (see pages 20 to 23 for
more details).
In France, Castorama continued its revitalisation
programme with two new store openings and
a further seven stores converted to the new format.
Castorama now trades from 98 stores and it will
continue its programme of revamping or relocating
its remaining 65 older stores over the coming years.
productivity. In the UK, Screwfix Direct opened 31
new trade counter stores, taking the total to 38.
Castorama Poland continued to grow strongly
and the first trial Brico Dépôt store was opened in
Warsaw to target trade professionals. Castorama
Italy and B&Q Ireland achieved strong growth.
In China, B&Q completed the integration of the
OBI stores acquired in 2005 and returned to
profitability. With 58 stores B&Q China has
consolidated its position as market leader. B&Q
Taiwan operates 21 stores. A smaller store format
has been successfully trialled.
UK professional market. In Russia, three stores
opened during the year, marking Kingfisher’s entry
into this fast-developing market.
A further 12 stores are planned to open in
2007/08 in these development businesses.
Kingfisher companies also continued to share
ideas, management talent and best practice,
as shown during the year in the development
of the new B&Q large-store format in the UK,
the launch of Brico Dépôt in Poland and the entry
of Castorama into Russia. 4 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
I believe is now beginning to bear fruit.
I am encouraged by B&Q’s momentum
into 2007, in both adapting to an ongoing
tougher market and developing its offer
for the future.
At the same time, Kingfisher’s
increasingly important international
businesses have continued to grow and
develop. Outside the UK, sales rose by
15.1% in the year and profits rose by
2.7%, in constant currencies. Within
the UK, consumer spending on home
improvement was held back by rising
interest rates and utility bills, inevitably
impacting B&Q’s trading. However, B&Q’s
ambitious development programme and a
progressive stabilisation of the UK market
during the year combined to show
encouraging signs of progress in the
second half.
Overall, total reported Group sales
grew 8.3% to £8.7 billion in the year, with
adjusted pre-tax profit down 11% to
£396.6 million. Net debt was reduced
during the year, following the disposal of
I was delighted to become Chairman of
Kingfisher in May 2006, during an
important and challenging period for both
the Group and its shareholders.
The sharp decline in the UK home
improvement market over the last two
years has seriously impacted sales and
profits at B&Q, Kingfisher’s biggest
business. However, vigorous and sustained
management action has been taken which
Chairman’s statement
over £200 million of property. In addition,
there was a 9% increase in the valuation
of the Group’s property portfolio, in
constant currencies, and a significant
reduction in the pension fund deficit to
£28 million, compared with £211 million in
the previous year. Despite the fall in profits,
the Board has recommended a maintained
dividend for the year of 10.65p per share,
after considering the Group’s medium-
term trading outlook, its overall financial
strength and current investment needs.
In my first year as Chairman I have
Strategically, I believe
Kingfisher is doing the right
things, building on its
established businesses in the
UK and France, whilst
investing in growth
opportunities in other markets
in Europe and Asia.
Group financial
performance indicators
Reported Constant
£ millions 2006/07
1
2005/06 change currency
Retail sales 8,676 8,010 +8.3% +7.4%
Retail profit
2
503.7 533.1 -5.5% -5.3%
Adjusted pre-tax profit
3
396.6 445.7 -11.0%
Adjusted post-tax profit
3
277.0 285.1 -2.8%
Adjusted basic EPS
3
11.9p 12.3p -3.3%
Pre-tax profit 450.5 231.8 +94.3%
Post-tax profit
4
336.8 139.5 +141.4%
Basic EPS 14.4p 6.0p +140.0%
Full year dividend 10.65p 10.65p –
Like-for-like sales growth +0.9% -2.2%
Net debt 1,293.8 1,355.2 -4.5%
Underlying return on invested capital 6.9% 7.3% -0.4pps
1
For the UK businesses, reported results are for the 53 weeks ended 3 February 2007. 
Outside the UK, figures are on a calendar month basis.
2
Retail profit is stated before central costs, exceptional items, acquisition intangibles amortisation 
and share of joint venture and associate interest and tax.
3
Adjusted measures are before exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements and amortisation 
of acquisition intangibles. A reconciliation to statutory amounts is set out in the Financial Review.
4
Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders. Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 5
2006/07 2005/06
Strengthening:
B&Q UK store space revamped (in year) 11% 5%
Castorama France store space revamped (in year) 7% 12%
Expanding:
Net new stores opened 56 58
Establishing:
Net new stores opened 12 8
Capitalising:
Countries of operation 11 10
Direct sourcing US$702m US$575m
Corporate responsibility Refer to page 18 of this report for details.
visited most of Kingfisher’s businesses
around the world and been very
encouraged by what I have seen.
With strong corporate and operating
management, a focused and well-balanced
family of leading businesses in both large,
well-established markets like the UK
and France, and younger, faster-growth
markets across Europe and Asia,
Kingfisher is a top tier international retailer
with enormous potential. There are
challenges too, not least the fragility of
the UK market and the need to invest in
equipping our two largest companies with
the modern and attractive stores they
need to meet our customers’ changing
needs – an absolute requirement for any
retailer aspiring to sustainable leadership.
Strategically, I believe Kingfisher is
doing the right things, building on its
established businesses in the UK and
France, whilst investing in growth
opportunities in other markets in Europe
and Asia. You can read more about this
strategy in the Chief Executive’s review
on pages 6 and 7 and the Operating
review on pages 20 to 29.
Kingfisher has continued to make the
most of its scale and international reach,
developing its Group buying programmes
and sharing ideas and management talent
around the businesses. From my own
experience I know that this is not easy,
but I share our management’s conviction
that we have the opportunity to build
a truly world-class company if we can keep
things simple and really focus on delivering
quality and value to our customers.
I would like to welcome two new
non-executive directors to the Board.
Daniel Bernard joined as Deputy
Key Group strategic
performance indicators
We have the opportunity 
to build a truly world-class
company if we can keep
things simple and really 
focus on delivering quality 
and value to our customers.
Chairman, bringing with him a wealth of
international retail experience from his
13 years as Chairman and Chief Executive
of Carrefour, the second largest retailer in
the world and one of the most successful
internationally. Janis Kong joined the
Board in December after a successful
career with BAA, the leading UK airports
operator. I would also like to take the
opportunity to thank Margaret Salmon,
who stepped down from the Board during
the year after nine years of excellent
service. We will miss Margaret’s counsel
and we wish her well.
Finally, I would like to thank Kingfisher’s
80,000 staff around the world for their
continued hard work, loyalty and
professionalism and, as I have seen for
myself, their wonderful enthusiasm. As
always, it is their efforts on behalf of the
customers in our stores that really make
the difference.
Peter Jackson
Chairman
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising 6 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Chief Executive’s review
countries, including the Group’s first stores
in Russia. Annual sales in the Rest of
Europe exceeded £1 billion for the first
time. Asia sales and profits grew strongly,
benefiting from strong profit growth in
China following the integration of the OBI
China acquisition in 2005.
Strategic progress
Kingfisher remained focused on its four
key strategic priorities with the aim of
delivering sustainable long-term growth
and investment returns for shareholders.
Good progress was made against these
priorities during the year.
1) Strengthening developed
businesses 
These businesses include B&Q UK and
Castorama France, representing almost
two-thirds of Kingfisher’s sales.
These established businesses are
focused on strengthening their leadership
positions by improving the sales productivity
of existing store space and cost efficiency.
The majority of current investment in these
businesses is in modernising existing
stores and business infrastructure, with
modest capacity expansion. 
B&Q made progress on its four
operational drivers – price competitiveness,
customer service, new products and store
environment. A key development in the
year was the successful trial of a new
large-store format which will form the
blueprint for revamping all of B&Q’s 115
large stores. With new customer service
initiatives and new ranges also performing
Tough trading conditions in the UK and
France and extensive change programmes
in B&Q UK, Castorama France and
Brico Dépôt combined to adversely
affect profit growth in 2006/07. However,
Kingfisher made good progress in its
strategic objectives for these companies
and delivered strong performances from
its growing businesses in the Rest of
Europe and Asia.
The UK home improvement market
remained challenging in 2006/07, with
consumer spending constrained by rising
interest rates and utility bills, as well as an
increasing tax burden. The market declined
further during the first half, before stabilising
over the summer and then starting to
show signs of modest growth towards the
end of the year. Across the full year the
market declined around 0.5%, having
fallen by 4% in the previous year. B&Q’s
market share was broadly stable.
B&Q gathered momentum during the
year and delivered sales and profit growth
in the second half. B&Q’s development
programme is encouraging and the pace
of activity is accelerating in 2007/08.
I remain convinced that these initiatives
will make B&Q more attractive to its
customers and more valuable for
shareholders.
In France, the market became more
price competitive as the year progressed,
compressing Kingfisher’s overall French
gross margin by around 100 basis points
in the second half. This pressure is
expected to continue into 2007/08.
However, Castorama made good progress
in developing its stores and ranges and
Brico Dépôt expanded further and
strengthened its infrastructure.
Elsewhere in Europe and Asia,
Kingfisher’s international expansion
continued with 27 new stores in nine
well, management remains confident that
an eventual 25% improvement in sales
productivity from existing larger stores is
achievable. By the end of the year, two
new stores and nine revamped stores
were trading in the new format. B&Q plans
to convert all the remaining large stores
to this format over the next four years,
with a further 25 conversions planned
for 2007/08.
In France, Castorama continued its
revitalisation programme with two new
store openings and a further seven stores
converted to its latest format. Six stores not
suitable for revamping were closed prior to
conversion to Brico Dépôts. Castorama
now trades from 98 stores and it will
continue its programme of revamping or
relocating its remaining 65 older stores
over the coming years. Ranges continue to
be updated, including the recent launch of
a wider selection of contemporary kitchens.
2) Expanding proven growth
businesses 
These businesses include Brico Dépôt
France, Castorama Poland and Italy, B&Q
China, Taiwan and Ireland, and Screwfix
Direct in the UK. In total they generate
over one-third of Kingfisher’s sales.
These younger businesses already
enjoy market-leading positions and have
reached a scale where they contribute
strongly to Kingfisher’s sales and profit
growth and deliver good economic
returns. Their main priority is to continue
to expand quickly to capitalise on their
market leadership. In total, these
businesses generated cash after funding
their cost of expansion in 2006/07.
To support continued expansion, £182
million, 40% of Kingfisher’s total capital
spend for the year, was invested in these
businesses. Fifty-six net new stores were
A key development at B&Q
was the successful trial of
a new large-store format.
Kingfisher remained focused on its four
key strategic priorities, with the aim of
delivering sustainable long-term growth
and investment returns for shareholders. Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 7
opened in the year, taking the total in this
category to nearly 270, with a similar
number planned to open in 2007/08.
In France, Brico Dépôt added 10
new stores, taking the total to 81, and
implemented a major new system upgrade
to enhance the competitiveness and
productivity of the business. In the UK,
Screwfix Direct opened 31 of the
successful new trade counter stores,
taking the total to 38.
Elsewhere in Europe, Castorama
Poland, which is aimed at the mainstream
consumer, continued to grow strongly.
The first trial Brico Dépôt store was
opened in Warsaw to target the trade
professional. Castorama Italy and B&Q
Ireland also achieved strong growth.
In China, B&Q completed the
integration of the OBI stores acquired
during 2005 and returned to profitability
for the year. In total, 58 stores are now
trading, consolidating B&Q’s position as
the largest home improvement retailer in
China. B&Q Taiwan, a 50% joint venture,
now operates 21 stores across the island
and is the clear market leader. A smaller
store format has been successfully trialled.
3) Establishing new opportunities for
the future
These businesses include Brico Dépôt
Spain, Castorama Russia, Koc
5
tas
5
Turkey
and Trade Depot in the UK.
During the year, investment of £51 million
(11% of Kingfisher’s total capital spend)
was made in these developing businesses.
Twelve stores opened in the year, taking
the total trading to 29. Koc
5
tas
5
is now
profitable after expansion costs and Brico
Dépôt Spain is also on track to overall
profitability within the next 12-18 months.
Trials continued into the second year at
Trade Depot which opened two more
stores to serve the UK professional
market. In Russia, three stores opened
during the year, marking Kingfisher’s entry
into this fast-developing market.
A further 12 stores are planned to
open in 2007/08 in these development
businesses.
4) Capitalising on buying scale and
international diversity
During the year, Kingfisher continued
to bring new products to market, develop
its own-brands and extend direct sourcing
from low-cost producers. Kingfisher
continued to develop its network of
overseas sourcing offices in Europe and
Asia. Direct sourcing shipments totalled
around US$700 million, an increase
of over 20% on the previous year.
Kingfisher companies also continued
to share ideas, management talent and
best practice, as shown during the year
in the development of the new B&Q 
large-store format in the UK, the launch
of Brico Dépôt in Poland and the entry
of Castorama into Russia.
Corporate Responsibility
Kingfisher is committed to ensuring that
the long-term development of its business
is sustainable and reflects the values and
expectations of the communities in which
it operates. As an international business
with stores in 11 countries and sourcing
offices in several more, it is important to
establish consistent environmental and
social standards across the Group’s
diverse operations, while taking into
account the different cultures and levels of
development of its operating companies.
In response, Kingfisher has developed an
environmental and social management
system known as ‘Steps to Responsible
Growth’ that sets out specific actions that
all operating companies must take to meet
policy commitments (see pages 18 and 19
for further details). Good progress was
made in these key areas during the year
in all of our businesses. Ian Cheshire,
Chief Executive of B&Q, has become
a member of the Corporate Leaders
Group on Climate Change, a group of UK
business leaders working with the
government to combat climate change,
and I am delighted to report that B&Q was
recognised as the leading UK retailer for
Corporate Social Responsibility with
a Retail Week award for its autumn 2006
energy saving campaign.
Outlook
Whilst trading conditions for our biggest
businesses continue to be challenging,
the longer-term outlook remains positive
for home improvement retailing.
Kingfisher’s leading market positions in
the UK and France, and fast-developing
positions elsewhere in Europe and Asia,
provide a powerful platform from which to
deliver sustainable long-term growth and
returns for shareholders.
Ahead of the key Easter trading
period, early 2007/08 trading has been
stronger in our major markets, supported
by better weather.
Gerry Murphy
Group Chief Executive
Whilst trading conditions
for our biggest businesses
continue to be challenging,
the longer-term outlook
remains positive for home
improvement retailing.
Gerry Murphy, Kingfisher’s
Group Chief Executive, at
the recently revamped B&Q
store in Reading. B&Q had
11 revamped larger stores
by the year end, with a
further 25 planned for the
current year.
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising Markets – at a glance
International expansion has been at the core of Kingfisher’s
strategy for many years. Castorama opened its first overseas
business in Italy in 1988 and B&Q entered Taiwan in 1996.
This strategy has continued in a measured way over the years,
leading to a strong and fast-growing portfolio of international
businesses which today provide strong growth and attractive
economic returns for Kingfisher.
Major growth opportunities
Huge markets
Population Market Market
million size share
£ billion %
UK 61 26 15
France 61 31 9
Rest of Europe
Poland 38 4 10
Italy 58 13 2
Turkey 74 4 3
Ireland 4 0.8 8
Spain 44 5 1
Russia 142 10 n/a
Asia
China 1,300 27 2
Taiwan 23 2 10
South Korea 49 6 n/a
Source: EIU Source: Kingfisher estimates
Kingfisher’s international markets
in aggregate are nearly five times
the size of the UK market.
Forecast DIY annual market growth 2006-2009
UK 2.5%
Italy 4.2%
France 4.9%
Taiwan 5.5%
Spain 6.9%
Ireland 7.1%
Poland 7.2%
Russia 10.0%
China 14.0%
UK
£26 bn 
France
£31 bn
Rest of
Europe
£36 bn 
Asia
£35 bn
Total
£128 bn    
8 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 • £10 billion market growing fast
• 85% of homes need refurbishment
• Newly constructed homes are delivered as ‘empty shells’
requiring customers to complete the fit-out
• The mortgage market is developing
• Property prices are rising
• Half of all Muscovites own a second property (dacha)
Kingfisher entered the Russian market in
2006 with the Castorama brand. It now has
three stores, with plans for another two
during 2007/08.
Russia is a large and fast-growing
consumer market. It has the largest population
in Europe (142 million). Moscow alone has
a population of 12 million, St Petersburg
has 4.8 million and a further 18 cities have
populations of over 500,000.
Consumer demand is generally strong
and growing fast and spending on the home
is particularly strong – the DIY market has
grown by 11% on average every year for the
last five years.
The market is very fragmented. Only
3% of demand is satisfied by modern,
organised stores.
Moscow
St Petersburg
Samara
Kingfisher
UK
France
Rest of Europe
Asia
Hornbach
• Identify those markets that offer real scale, with opportunities
for growth and returns
• Research the market in depth
• Build a strong local team from local nationals and allow local
management autonomy, subject to close central monitoring
of Key Performance Indicators
• Share ideas, resources and suppliers from around Kingfisher 
to create local advantage but adapt the business model to the 
local environment
• Expand once the business case is proven, and exit if it is not
Kingfisher’s 18 years of
international expansion
has been based on
several key principles:
Focus on 
Russia
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 9
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising 10 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
These customers are increasingly
important as rising wealth levels and busy
lives mean more people will pay others to
complete major home makeovers for them
– Do-it-for-me (DFM), rather than DIY.
They spend more than average on major
home improvement projects but they shop
less regularly. Importantly, around 75% of
home project initiators are women.
“I need someone to take the time to help me design
what I want and tell me how much it will all cost”
“Wandering around a dusty old store isn’t very
inspiring. I like to browse in a bright, modern
environment”
“I like to look and touch real displays, photos are
never enough”
“If I’m spending good money on a new kitchen
I don’t want to end up with a cowboy out of the
local classifieds fitting it. I want the retailer to take
responsibility for installation”
“I can’t afford to do big improvements regularly.
When I do something big I want a deal and some
help financing it”
Typically this customer is a young male
carrying out basic maintenance on his
home and garden and expanding his
collection of tools and equipment to do the
job well. However, women are increasingly
playing a more significant part, reflecting
greater female home ownership and
independence. 
“I’m often in to pick up bits and pieces. I want good
prices all the time and not just when there’s a sale”
“My leisure time is too precious to go from shop to
shop at the weekend. I want to find all my DIY
needs under one roof”
“I want to get what I need quickly and get on with
the job. I get frustrated if I can’t find it in the store
or it’s out of stock”
“Helpful staff make all the difference. It’s great
when they know exactly where things are or can
give tips and advice”
“I enjoy browsing for tools and gadgets that will
help me do a better job”
For these customers time is money. 
“Having one of everything in stock is no good.
I need a pallet load”
“I can’t down tools on the job so I need somewhere
that’s open on my way to work”
“I don’t get paid until the job is finished so
I need credit”
“I’m a big, loyal customer so I want a discount”
“I use professional brands which I know will do
a good job”
“Somewhere to load the van is a big help”
Customers – understanding their needs
Kingfisher is a mass market, international retailer serving six
million diverse customers each week in its stores and many
more via the internet and telephone. Whilst customers vary
by nationality, gender, age, wealth, aptitude and culture, it is
possible to consider three broad groups of customers for
whom stores, products, pricing and services need to be
adapted. A selection of customers’ quotes are shown below.
‘Everyday DIYer’ ‘Project initiator’ ‘Trade professional’
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 11
Up to 5,000 sq m
Up to 15,000 products
266 stores in 8 countries,
typically operating as B&Q,
Brico Dépôt, Trade Depot,
Screwfix Direct and Koc
5
tas
5
These stores are specifically designed 
to satisfy the needs of the 
‘Trade professional’ although
increasingly ‘Everyday DIYers’ use them
too. Their smaller size and trade focus
makes finding sites and obtaining planning
permission easier and they require
significantly less capital investment.
These stores serve all customers’ needs
under one roof. The ‘Everyday DIYer’ can
find the largest assortment of repair and
maintenance products in the market at the
best price. Specialist staff are available for
advice and the store has a large
demonstration area for DIY master classes
in the evenings and at weekends. The
‘Project initiator’ can browse the many
roomsets displaying complete kitchens,
bathrooms and bedrooms and plan a
major project with the help of dedicated
design consultants. Many of the project
finishing touches are also stocked. The
‘Trade professional’ can shop in a
dedicated area of the store with easy
access for loading commercial vehicles.
The store has extended opening hours for
the convenience of all its customers.
Stores – a range of options to match local needs
8,000+ sq m
30,000 to 50,000 products
278 stores in 9 countries,
typically operating as B&Q
and Castorama
5,000-8,000 sq m
20,000 to 30,000 products
174 stores in 11 countries,
typically operating as B&Q,
Castorama, Brico Dépôt
and Koc
5
tas
5
These stores specialise in serving the
‘Everyday DIYer’ and the
‘Trade professional’. Typically they offer
the largest range of repair and
maintenance products in their local market
at the keenest prices. Often located closer
to town centres, they are convenient for all
day-to-day customer needs. 
The smaller size of these stores is an
advantage in those markets where
availability of larger sites is limited by
congestion or planning restrictions.
LARGE FORMAT
MEDIUM FORMAT
SMALL FORMAT
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising 12 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
People development
Staff engagement with 
business strategy
A key priority for the past year has been to
ensure high levels of staff engagement
within B&Q UK and Castorama France as
both businesses continue to implement
their action programmes. At B&Q UK,
regular staff communication has been
crucial, with frequent updates regarding
B&Q’s strategy and the roll-out of the store
revamp programme with its improved
product, price and service promises.
Tailored training has also been provided
to support key service initiatives such
as the in-store ‘Service Squads’ and the
employment of more staff with specialist
knowledge in key departments such as
flooring and tiling. These new initiatives
have led to B&Q’s twice yearly staff
engagement surveys showing their best
results for over five years.
At Castorama in France, the launch
in September of the new ‘Castoramoa’
staff internet site was a landmark event
(see panel). This secure interactive site
enables staff to become more involved
in the decision-making process within the
business. The first subject chosen for
discussion was the new uniform for
store staff.
At Brico Dépôt France a major staff
information and training programme was
devised to support the introduction during
the year of SAP technology into the store
and supply chain systems. This involved
700 detailed workshops to ensure that
SAP was adapted sufficiently to suit Brico
Dépôt’s needs prior to being rolled out.
Supported by a system of regional training
managers from eight stores, SAP had
been fully implemented in two-thirds of
stores by the year-end, with completion
planned for the first half of this year.
Recruitment and training
Kingfisher’s businesses in China and
Russia have different challenges to those
in established markets, principally the
recruitment and training of large numbers
of staff. Last year alone B&Q China
opened 10 new stores, and hired a total of
2,500 new workers. To keep pace with
growth B&Q China needs to recruit several
thousand new staff every year, including
400 at management level, in an
increasingly competitive labour market.
Last year, B&Q China’s 10,000-plus
workforce received an average of 36
training hours per person. B&Q China has
developed a Fast Track Programme,
modelled on a similar scheme at B&Q UK,
in which high-potential managers can be
developed and retained via a recognised
internal route to promotion. Senior
managers in the Group’s Asian business
have also been able to attend specialist
retail training courses run in partnership
with Monash University of Australia.
Valuing diversity
Kingfisher is a responsible employer, which
values diversity and actively promotes
policies on gender, age, disability and race.
In the UK for example, B&Q is well-known
for its age diversity policy. Around a quarter
of B&Q’s employees are aged over 50,
balanced by over 22% of its workforce
being under 24 years old.
Castorama staff website
The launch of the Castorama France staff
website in September 2006 was intended to
involve its staff more in decision-making.
Using a secure internet site which can be
accessed from their office, home or store
computer, staff can post ideas, PowerPoint
presentations, photos or video clips on to
the site on a range of subjects. Using the
slogan “My idea, your idea, our idea”, the
Castoramoa site aims to be a democratic
communications tool which puts staff in
touch with each other and the management
via online chatrooms.
The first subject chosen for discussion
was the choice of a new staff uniform.
By the end of January, three-quarters of
Castorama’s 13,000 staff had used the site,
with a total of 100,000 hits. Over 700 ideas
for the uniform were contributed. The
winning design is pictured above.
Smart ideas through
better staff engagement
Developing 
skills across
different cultures
Tony Williams
Group Human
Resources Director
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising Mariusz Gliwinski (36), President,
B&Q China
“Kingfisher is a very diverse organisation and
offers managers tremendous opportunities
to develop their careers in different markets.
It was a great experience working for B&Q
Taiwan after two years running a Kingfisher
business in Europe. I learned how different
Asian customers are compared to those
in Europe and how important services are
in Asia.”
Médéric Payne (32), Director of Merchandising,
B&Q (UK & Ireland)
“It’s all about product and making our stores
exciting for customers to come to and realise
their home improvement projects. I believe
in having a passion for retailing and seeing
customers being inspired when visiting
our stores.”
Since returning to B&Q UK as Director of Merchandising
in April 2006, Médéric has played a key role in the
Nataliya Bernadskaya (35), Castorama Russia
“I spent several years at Castorama Poland,
which helped me gain a lot of retail
knowledge and skills and I wanted to use
this experience in a new retail market.
My work at both Castorama Poland and
Castorama Russia helps me handle the
unusual problems that you can face in any
retail business and I find this part of my job
very exciting.”
Mariusz was appointed President of B&Q China in
autumn 2006 after three years as head of B&Q
Taiwan, where he developed the business and
maintained its position as market leader. Previously
he spent seven years at Nomi, a former Kingfisher
business in Poland, including three years as
General Manager.
These roles have enabled Mariusz to transfer
the knowledge and skills gained in one market
to another.
development of the new large-store format. Médéric
used the experience gained from his previous role
in the Group as Director of Merchandising at
Castorama France where he was part of the team
that developed the successful store revamp
programme. Médéric was able to bring to B&Q UK
product display ideas in departments such as flooring
and curtains which had already been successfully
implemented in France. Médéric joined Kingfisher
in 1999 on the Group’s fast-track management
scheme, initially training in the B&Q Warehouse
stores before transferring to Castorama France.
Nataliya joined Castorama Russia from Castorama
Poland at the beginning of 2006 to help provide
operational experience as the Group prepared to
open its first Russian stores. Nataliya, who spent
over seven years at Castorama Poland, helped in the
opening of the stores in Samara and St Petersburg
and will move to the first Moscow store as deputy
store manager when it opens under the Castorama
banner this spring.
Management development
In a people business like retailing, the ability to
attract, retain and develop the best people is vital.
Kingfisher’s size and international spread provides
unique career and personal development
opportunities in retailing for staff, as well as an
excellent international talent pool for the business.
Turning these development opportunities
into reality, whilst at the same time gaining local
competitive advantage by sharing knowledge and
talent around the Group is important to Kingfisher.
As a result, numerous Group-wide programmes
have been developed to make the sharing and
transfer of knowledge simpler, quicker, and more
cost-effective. These programmes are in addition
to, and work in conjunction with, locally operated
programmes which focus mainly on local staff
engagement, recruitment and training.
Group-wide programmes
The Kingfisher Executive Group (KEG) consists of
around 150 of the most senior managers across
Europe and Asia. Members of the KEG share their
considerable knowledge and experiences by
participating in Group-wide initiatives, working
forums and internally published case studies.
To identify the senior managers of tomorrow
a Kingfisher Talent Group (KTG) has recently been
launched. The 60 members of the KTG are the
‘rising stars’ within the organisation which
Kingfisher aims to encourage and nurture in a
structured way, including personal development
training, mentoring and project work outside their
home market.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 13 New ranges from around the world
B&Q UK is currently rolling out improved wall
and window decoration ranges to its larger
stores, with a wider selection of wallpaper,
curtains and blinds. B&Q worked with
Kingfisher’s sourcing offices in Hong Kong,
India and Poland to secure new, innovative
ranges, with product display ideas coming
from Castorama France. The photo shows
Lisa Blackmore, left, B&Q’s window décor
buyer, with some of the new ranges in the
Cribbs Causeway store near Bristol.
New 
products 
fresh ideas Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 15
Suppliers and Kingfisher working together
As the world’s third largest home
improvement retailer, with over 700 stores
in 11 countries, Kingfisher has the scale
and international reach to source the best
range of products for its customers, at
the best possible prices. Kingfisher,
together with its joint ventures and strategic
partner Hornbach, has total sales of around
£10 billion, and, with the Hornbach group of
companies also participating in the Group’s
sourcing programmes, a combined buying
scale of over £6 billion.
This buying strength and international
breadth is a major asset, and, over the
years, Kingfisher has developed long-term,
mutually beneficial relationships with many
of the world’s leading suppliers of home
improvement products. With quality goods
sourced on favourable terms, Kingfisher is
able to pass on these savings to its
customers around the world in the form of
lower prices in its stores.
In addition to price and quality, the key
priorities of Kingfisher’s Group sourcing
programmes are product innovation and
exclusivity, own-brand development,
speed to market, and the continued
extension of direct sourcing, which is 
co-ordinated through Kingfisher’s 
well-established international network of
sourcing offices.
Direct Sourcing
Direct sourcing is a major source of
competitive advantage for Kingfisher as it
enables the Group to buy goods direct
from the factories of the best and lowest-
cost producers. Kingfisher has five
overseas sourcing offices – in Shanghai,
Hong Kong, Poland, India and Thailand,
each specialising in particular product
areas. Last year, direct shipments rose by
23% to US$702 million (at factory prices).
Growth was particularly strong in areas
such as own-brand power tools; the
Magnusson hand tool range for Brico
Dépôt France and B&Q UK; and mobile
air conditioning units which were produced
for B&Q UK, Castorama France, Italy and
Poland, and the Hornbach companies.
In addition, innovative designer bathroom
suites were sourced for Castorama France,
and new ranges of wallpaper and window
décor (curtains and blinds) for B&Q UK.
The development and sourcing of new
wall and window décor ranges for B&Q
UK in the past year are good examples
of Kingfisher companies working together
and using direct sourcing to produce
innovative new ranges for customers.
Building on ideas already tested in the
new format Castorama stores in France,
B&Q UK last year completely overhauled
its range of wallpaper and curtains using
Kingfisher’s sourcing offices in Hong Kong,
India and Poland. The in-store product
displays were also modelled on the
successful merchandising used in the
Castorama France stores.
Powering up own-brands
Kingfisher continued to add
new products to its successful
MacAllister range of power
tools and garden products.
The brand is now sold in most
of the Group’s key markets.
Own-brand development
The development of Kingfisher’s cross-
Group own-brand continued during the
year. Both B&Q UK and Castorama France
have developed a common, integrated
approach to decorative products, with the
ranges being grouped together in four
distinct style themes. The B&Q styles are
Contemporary, Country, Heritage and Fun,
making it easier for customers to match
their choices to the style of their home.
The same approach is now being extended
to other Kingfisher operating companies.
The development of the Colours
decorative range continued, with Colours
paint launched in Castorama Poland
during the year. In own-brand power
tools, the Group started a programme to
co-ordinate the development of the
Performance Power and MacAllister power
tool range more effectively. An additional
innovation during the year was the launch
of MacAllister laser levels. In France,
Brico Dépôt successfully launched its
Magnusson hand tool range.
Paul Mir was appointed Group
Commercial Director in January 2007
to lead the next phase of the Group’s
international commercial programme.
He has over 20 years’ experience in
international supply management at
Fnac and Carrefour.
Paul Mir
Group Commercial
Director
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising 16 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Innovation – anticipating customer needs
easy-to-fit, split-unit air conditioning at
breakthrough prices. And last autumn,
B&Q became the first high street retailer in
the UK to stock domestic wind turbines as
part of a wider range of energy efficiency
products which also includes solar panels
and more stylish energy efficient lightbulbs.
Stores
Operating in 11 different countries,
Kingfisher has developed a strong record
of store format innovation, adapting stores
to their local environment. In Taiwan, a
densely populated island, B&Q developed
a more compact format, often multi-storey,
to minimise the impact of space restrictions.
Merchandising techniques from these
stores have been used in other Kingfisher
businesses and this will again be evident
in the format used to enter the densely
populated Hong Kong market in 2007.
In the UK, Screwfix Direct has
developed a trade counter store format
to complement its catalogue and online
channels. Trade counters offer immediate
order collection and feature a small
customer ordering area at the front, with
a warehouse area at the back.
Customer service
Although large-scale home improvement
stores have typically been mainly self-
service operations, rising customer
expectations mean that good quality
customer service by knowledgeable staff
is a growing priority. In the UK, B&Q has
introduced ‘Service Squads’, store staff
wholly dedicated to customer service,
using radio communications to speed up
service levels. B&Q has also introduced an
enhanced service model where more
specialist, trained staff are deployed at peak
times in areas such as tiling and flooring,
where customers need more advice.
Kingfisher’s businesses have a long history
of innovation, adapting their product
ranges, store environments and customer
services to better serve their customers
and keep ahead of the competition.
However, the need to innovate is
accelerating as customers increasingly
have alternative ways to research and buy
products and more international travel has
raised awareness. 
Kingfisher is uniquely placed to benefit
from this trend. As the largest and most
international home improvement retailer in
Europe and Asia, with operations in 11
countries, there is a large pool of talent and
new ideas from which all the businesses
can draw. Today, capitalising on Kingfisher’s
international scale and diversity is one of
the Group’s four key strategic priorities (see
Strategy at a glance on page 2 and Progress
in 2006/07 on page 3). As a result, the rate
at which each business is changing and
sharing ideas with its sister companies in
the Group has accelerated in recent years,
examples of which can be seen below and
throughout the Annual Report. 
Products
Backed by its significant buying strength
and international sourcing network,
Kingfisher has made many products
accessible to a much wider market,
enabling more people to improve their
homes at affordable prices.
For example, working with suppliers,
wood-effect laminate flooring became 
both affordable and within the capabilities
of many DIYers in the 1990s. More recently,
higher specification ranges of engineered
wood and real wood have been added to
meet customer demand for more upmarket
flooring products.
In 2005 B&Q UK and Castorama
France became the first retailers to launch
In China, where the population’s
knowledge of home improvement
techniques is developing, staff training
and customer advice is of critical
importance. Store staff typically receive an
average of 36 training hours per year. And
the stores’ own staff are supplemented by
vendor representatives, who are employed
by product manufacturers to give
specialist advice.
Services
As more consumers in many of Kingfisher’s
markets become increasingly ‘cash-rich
and time-poor’ the offer of installation
services becomes more and more
important for shoppers who may not have
the time or knowledge to tackle certain
home improvement projects. In the UK,
B&Q has offered a kitchen and bathroom
installation service for some time and
typically installs around 25,000 kitchens
and bathrooms a year. More recently, the
business has been trialling a ‘handyman’
service where customers are quoted a fixed
price for household jobs such as putting up
shelves or hanging doors.
In China, where home buyers typically
buy completely new apartments as empty
concrete shells, B&Q offers a full
apartment installation service, including
painting the walls and laying the flooring.
Over 30,000 apartments were fitted out
in this way last year. A similar service is
offered by B&Q Taiwan.
In retail it is often said that the only thing that never
changes is the need to keep changing. The most
successful retailers understand that customer needs 
and wants are constantly evolving, and anticipate and
capitalise on these trends.
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising Energy efficiency, at breakthrough prices
B&Q UK launched a new range of energy
efficiency products last year, with the aim of
helping customers reduce energy bills whilst
also making their homes more environmentally
friendly. The range included domestic wind
turbines priced at less than £1,500. Other
products included solar panels and energy
efficient lightbulbs with improved designs.
A new handyman trial was also launched
during the year and is being extended 
to 25 stores.
Energetic
thinking Raising awareness of certified 
timber in China
B&Q China is working with Greenpeace to
raise public awareness of the importance of
sustainable wood products. In-store leaflets
explain to customers the benefits of certified
wood and there are dedicated sales areas
in stores to raise awareness of sustainable
timber sourcing. B&Q China has recently
launched a ‘better home’ service for customers
wanting a more sustainable home.
Going green made easy
In March 2007, B&Q UK
won the Retail Week
award for Corporate Social
Responsibility for its
Energy Efficiency Made
Easy campaign in autumn
2006. The picture shows
Jo Kenrick, B&Q’s Marketing
and Customer Proposition
Director, receiving the award.
Ray Baker
Director of Corporate
Social Responsibility Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 19
Environmental performance summary
Timber – Kingfisher’s target is for
75% of timber sold to be proven as well
managed or recycled by 2010/11. A new
timber data collection tool has been
developed to monitor progress. Data for
2006/07 on timber certification will be
published in the CR Report.
Climate change – Energy efficiency
of stores was 220 Kwh/m
2
of commercial
floor space in 2006/07 and a five year
target has been set to improve energy
efficiency of stores by 10% by 2011/12
(from 2006/07). In addition, Kingfisher
is developing a climate change strategy
for 2007/08, including a greenhouse
gas reduction target. Kingfisher has
produced guidance to help operating
companies develop energy action plans.
A number of operating companies will
set their own specific climate change
targets during 2007.
Chemicals – Kingfisher plans to work
with its suppliers to substitute or eliminate
chemicals which are considered to have
potential health and safety issues. As a
first step, all operating companies are
required to have an action plan in place
by 31 January 2008 to identify products
containing certain chemicals and work
with suppliers to investigate opportunities
for removal or substitution.
Social performance summary
Store neighbourhoods – Kingfisher
seeks to make every store a good
neighbour within the community it serves
by contributing to local projects and
creating employment. A new Charities
Policy and Good Practice Guidance for
developing commercial partnerships has
been introduced. See page 37 for data
on charity contributions.
Factory working conditions –
Kingfisher’s overseas sourcing offices
audited 644 factories in 2006/07 to assess
compliance with Kingfisher’s Code of
Conduct for Factory Working Conditions.
A Group-wide factory assessment and
audit process will be introduced in 2007/08
for use by Kingfisher operating companies.
Diversity – Across the Group, women
accounted for 40% of total employees
and 26% of managers in 2006/07.
Guidance on diversity for Kingfisher’s
Kingfisher has a clear vision for Corporate
Responsibility (CR) – ‘to ensure that the
long-term development of our business
is sustainable and reflects the values and
expectations of our communities’.
This section of the Annual Report is an
overview of Kingfisher’s approach to CRand
its progress on key issues. A more detailed
CR Report, which is independently assured
by URS Verification, is available on Kingfisher’s
website at www.kingfisher.com/cr and as a
printed summary.
As a result of progress made with CR
initiatives, Kingfisher is included in two of
the main socially responsible investment
(SRI) indices – Dow Jones Sustainability
Index and the FTSE4Good. It is also listed
as one of the Global 100 Most Sustainable
Corporations in the World
(www.global100.org) and included in the
UK’s Top 100 Companies That Count
compiled by Business in the Community
(www.bitc.org.uk).
How we manage CR
Kingfisher’s Group Chief Executive has
overall responsibility for CR and under his
direction the Executive Committee sets the
CR strategy and reviews progress. The
Chief Executive of each operating company
is responsible for policy implementation
within their respective businesses. There is
also a CR Steering Group which brings
together representatives from each
operating company to discuss progress and
share best practice. 
A key challenge has been to establish
consistent environmental and social
standards across Kingfisher’s diverse
international operations, while taking into
account the different cultures and levels
of development within its operating
companies. In response, Kingfisher has
developed an environmental and social
management system known as ‘Steps to
Responsible Growth’.
This sets out specific actions that all
operating companies must take to meet
policy commitments on 12 key social and
environmental issues. It identifies three
levels of progress for each issue:
• Minimum action 
• Policy target 
• Leadership position
All operating companies are required to
achieve the minimum action level on all
12 issues by 31 January 2008 and the
policy target level by 31 January 2011.
operating companies will be produced in
2007/08.
A sustainable future?
Kingfisher recognises that global
sustainability issues such as climate change
and deforestation will require companies
to significantly change the way they do
business over the long-term. As part of
this, Kingfisher is working with Forum for
the Future to develop a sustainability
strategy for the next decade.
The biggest opportunity to contribute
to a more sustainable use of limited
natural resources is to develop and
promote home improvement products
that enable Kingfisher’s customers to live
more sustainably. There are already a
number of initiatives underway to bring
greener choices to the consumer,
including renewable energy products,
timber from sustainable sources and
lower environmental impact paints.
Corporate responsibility – a sustainable business 
Castorama France has
partnered with the
conservation organisation
WWF to promote lower
impact products to
consumers. These include
timber certified to FSC
standard, paint with the
European Eco label and
energy efficient products.
Over 1,700 products
carry the Partners for
the Planet logo.
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising 20 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Operating review UK
Ian Cheshire
Chief Executive, B&Q
The UK home improvement market*
remained challenging in 2006/07, declining
further during the first half, before
stabilising over the summer and then
starting to show signs of modest growth
towards the end of the year. Across the full
year the market declined around 0.5%,
having fallen by 4% in the previous year.
B&Q’s market share was broadly stable. 
*Market data from GfK for the major store home
improvement operators
B&Q
B&Q’s total reported sales were £3.9 billion,
down 1.7% (52 weeks) and down 2.9%
like-for-like (LFL).Total sales showed an
improving trend as the year progressed,
declining 4.4% in the first half but growing
1.3% in the second half (26 weeks).
Retail profit was £162.9 million
(2005/06: £208.5 million), reflecting the
lower sales and a flat gross margin rate
compared with last year. Retail profit
benefited from £6 million of one-off gains
in the fourth quarter (£2 million government
compensation for damage at a Northern
Ireland store in 2005, and a net £4 million
incentive payment on transfer of financial
services business to a new provider).
Total costs grew 3% (52 weeks) with
underlying cost inflation of 3%, net new
space growth of 2% and the additional
costs for the normalisation of staff bonus
and store revamping, offset by cost savings.
Development programme update
Progress continued with the programme
launched last year to reduce B&Q’s cost
base and to develop the business for
the future. Price competitiveness,
improving customer service, introducing
new product ranges and improving store
environment were prioritised to ensure
B&Q is the first and only store for a
greater proportion of customers’ home
improvement spend.
Price competitiveness
B&Q maintained its long-term ‘Every Day
Low Pricing’ strategy for everyday
products and also introduced targeted
promotions for less frequent purchases
such as kitchens, bathrooms and
associated products.
New product ranges
New product launches performed well,
including updated ranges of kitchens,
bathrooms, tiles, wooden floors and
heating. The award-winning ‘Energy
Efficiency Made Easy at B&Q’ campaign,
aimed at helping customers reduce
household carbon emissions, featured
wind turbines and solar panels, and the
recent ‘Water Efficiency Made Easy at
B&Q’ campaign includes underground
water storage tanks, shower timers and
water butts. Towards the end of the year
new financial service products were
launched including home, van and small
business insurance.
In 2007/08 the programme of range
change will accelerate and will include
premium paints and more contemporary
wallpaper, curtains and blinds as well
as the introduction of new consumer and
trade credit products.
Customer service
Good progress was made on helping
customers find products more quickly and
making available more specialist, trained
staff to assist customers undertaking
major projects. Service Squads (staff
wholly dedicated to customer service,
equipped with radio communications)
were in operation in the top 240 stores
and independent research confirms that
customers’ perception of service levels
and satisfaction is at a recent high.
Trials deploying more staff in kitchen,
bathroom, flooring and power tool areas,
where customers need more assistance
and advice, were encouraging with one of
the original six pilot stores recently winning
the Scottish Retail Excellence Award for
customer service. This initiative has now
been extended to 51 stores with more
planned for 2007/08. 
A B&Q-branded ‘Handyman’ trial
was launched in two London stores,
helping customers with small home
improvement jobs including fitting lights
and hanging doors. Results have been
encouraging and the trial will be extended
to a further 25 stores during the first
quarter of 2007/08.
Store development
An existing large store at Wednesbury
in the West Midlands was extensively
revamped with more clearly defined shop-
within-shop sections, roomset displays
and more space allocated to kitchens,
bathrooms, flooring and tiling areas.
Early results from this trial, and from two
new stores in the same format, were
encouraging and a further eight revamps
were completed in the fourth quarter.
As previously indicated, each revamp
project is expected to require £2.5 million
capital expenditure, £0.5 million increased
stock and an average net disruption and
re-launch revenue cost of £1 million per
store in the year of revamping. The new
format stores also deploy around 15%
more staff hours to improve service to
customers. Results from the original three
trial stores have exceeded expectations.
Sales are outperforming comparable older
stores, driven primarily by higher average
transaction values as customers spend
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising Inspiring 
customers
Revamp programme gathers pace
The programme to revamp B&Q’s 115 larger
stores gathered pace during the year with
11 stores now trading in the new format. This
format features more roomsets to showcase
key projects such as kitchens and bathrooms,
(including this new ‘Restful’ bathroom suite in
main photo) more ‘shop-within-shop’ areas
dedicated to product ranges such as paint,
lighting and flooring, and improved service,
with more specialists in key areas such as
tiling. A further 25 of the larger stores will
be revamped this year. more in the expanded kitchen, bathroom
and associated project areas. B&Q
continues to target an eventual 25%
increase in large store sales densities
from the combined benefits of extensive
revamps, new product ranges and
improved service levels.
At the same time a further 29 medium
store revamps (formerly known as mini-
Warehouse revamps) were completed,
including 16 less extensive projects.
One Supercentre was closed.
B&Q now has 115 large stores (11 in
the latest format) and 209 medium stores
(of which 117 have been modernised).
Overall net space increased 2% during
the year.
In 2007/08, 25 large store revamps
are planned with eight currently underway.
With 36 Supercentre revamps and
relocations, two new medium stores
and six large store downsizes also
planned, B&Q expects to have 114 large
stores (36 in the latest format) and 209
medium stores (of which 154 will have
been modernised) by the end of 2007/08.
Total space growth for 2007/08 is
expected to be around 2%. 
UK Trade
Screwfix Direct total reported sales were
up 25.3% (52 weeks), supported by
the roll-out of trade counters, catalogue
expansion and new ranges of bathroom
suites and power tools. Retail profit
increased over 60%, driven by strong sales
growth and fulfilment efficiency gains.
The Screwfix trade counter
programme, aimed at customers needing
immediate availability, continued on track.
An additional 31 outlets opened during
the year, taking the total to 38, with a
similar number of openings planned for
2007/08. To support continued growth,
a second distribution centre is due to
open in Stafford during summer 2007/08. 
The Trade Depot trial, which targets
the general builder and specialist trade
customer, continued with two more
branches opening during the year, taking
the total to four. A further two new
branches are planned for 2007/08.
UK continued
Growth at
Screwfix Direct
Screwfix Direct reported
strong sales and profit
growth, supported by the
roll-out of trade counters,
catalogue expansion and
new ranges.
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising
22 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 Adding new product ranges
A key focus for B&Q is to provide customers
with exciting new product ranges which are
updated more frequently. New launches in the
past year have included this Penrith kitchen
(main photo), as well as the Panama range of
garden furniture from the premium Select range
and the latest versions of the retro style
Memphis barbeques, which were first launched
in 2006. This year’s Memphis barbeques come
with built-in speakers and an MP3 connection. More choice
better value
Twin-track strategy on course
Castorama added more contemporary ranges
of kitchens, bathrooms, paint and lighting during
the year. Over a third of Castorama’s selling
space has now been converted to the new,
modern format and a further six revamps are
planned for the current year. Brico Dépôt, which
is aimed at heavy DIY buyers and trade
professionals, opened 10 more stores in the
year, taking its total to 81. A new IT system
was implemented during the year, as was a
new supply chain network. Brico Dépôt
Sales increased 16.5% to £1.3 billion,
benefiting from new stores and more
widely-distributed product catalogues.
LFL sales growth was +2.8% against
strong comparatives (2005/06: +7.3% LFL;
2004/05: +17.7% LFL) reflecting the size
of the business, internal cannibalisation of
around 3% and focus in the year on the
successful implementation of new systems
and logistics infrastructure. Sales were
strong in building categories, supported
by new ranges of insulation products and
aluminium windows.
Ten new stores opened in the year
taking the total to 81, including the
opening of three of the six stores
transferred from Castorama. In 2007/08
store expansion will continue with eight
new store openings planned (seven in
the first half) including the three remaining
store transfers from Castorama.
A major new information technology
platform to improve store replenishment
and stock availability was implemented
during the year. This was the biggest
transformation project in Brico Dépôt’s
history and required significant
management focus to ensure successful
delivery. Two-thirds of stores are now
operating on the new technology platform
with the remainder joining during the first
half of 2007/08. In addition, Brico Dépôt
opened a second central distribution
centre in southern France during the fourth
quarter. Around half of all deliveries to
stores are now centrally controlled.
All percentage movements above are in constant
currencies.
Castorama
Castorama grew total reported sales by
3.6% to £1.6 billion (up 1.3% LFL), up 5%
excluding the six transfers to Brico Dépôt
during the year. Further progress was
made improving price competitiveness,
product ranges, store environment and
cost productivity.
More contemporary ranges of
bathrooms and kitchens, indoor lighting,
paint and textiles were introduced as
part of an ongoing range development
programme. The participation of own-brand
product sales as a proportion of overall
sales grew to 19% (2005/06: 16%). 
Castorama continued its store
modernisation programme, with two
new stores opened and seven older,
existing stores relocated to new sites.
Six stores not suitable for revamping
were closed prior to conversion to the
Brico Dépôt format.
Thirty-six per cent of total selling space
is now in the new format and these stores
continue to outperform comparable stores.
Results from store development have
improved as the new format has evolved,
with stores relocated during the year on
track to deliver sales density uplifts of over
20% on top of a 25% increase in space.
A further six revamps are planned for
2007/08, five scheduled to begin in
the first quarter. Approximately half of
the remaining Castorama stores will be
revamped over the next four years, with
the balance relocated to new sites as
these are secured and approved by
planning authorities.
In France, Kingfisher’s total sales grew
9.0% (+ 2.0% LFL). Twelve new stores
were opened in the year and seven
relocated, adding 5% new space. Banque
de France data shows that growth in
comparable DIY store sales* was around
3% for the full year, with Kingfisher’s
business outperforming the market by
delivering comparable stores sales growth
of 3.4%. However, the market became
more price competitive as the year
progressed, compressing Kingfisher’s
overall French gross margin by around
100 basis points in the second half.
This pressure is expected to continue
into 2007/08.
*Banque de France data including relocated and
extended stores
Retail profit of £206.3 million was lower
than last year with retail profit of both
businesses declining by around 10%.
This reflected gross margin compression
and £14 million of development costs for
the transfer to Brico Dépôt of six smaller
Castorama stores and the implementation
of a major new technology platform at
Brico Dépôt. With a high level of freehold
stores and strong cost control, Kingfisher’s
net cost inflation in France is running at
around 2%.
Operating review France
Philippe Tible 
Chief Executive,
Castorama
Patrick Langlade 
Chief Executive,
Brico Dépôt
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 25
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising Kingfisher’s businesses in the Rest of
Europe increased sales by 25.0% (+7.4%
LFL) to just over £1 billion. Retail profits
increased by 26.6% to £110.4 million,
reflecting strong performances in Italy and
Poland and a higher associate contribution
from Hornbach. Development losses in
Russia and Spain were in line with the
previous year.
Fifteen new stores were opened in
the year across six countries, including
three in Russia, three in Spain and three
in Turkey.
Poland
Sales increased 19.2% to £507.8 million
(+9.3% LFL) boosted by buoyant
consumer spending and strong property
and construction markets. Retail profit
increased 9.0% to £58.4 million as good
cost control, Group sourcing and
increased own-brand penetration helped
to offset increasing wage inflation. New
ranges, including exclusive own-brand
professional tools, performed well.
Five new stores opened including
the first Brico Dépôt in Warsaw in June,
launched to test the demand for a more
trade-orientated offer. Five new stores
are planned for 2007/08, including one
Brico Dépôt.
Italy
Castorama Italy grew sales 17.6% to
£312.4 million (+4.6% LFL) in a generally
weak Italian retail market. Sales benefited
from new ranges of lighting, sheds and
fencing, together with targeted promotional
activity in gardening and building categories.
Retail profit increased 9.8% to £31.3 million,
with improved sourcing helping to offset
pricing pressure in a slow market.
One new store was opened taking the
total to 27. A further two new stores are
planned for 2007/08.
In Ireland, where B&Q has seven stores,
sales grew 28.0%, reflecting new store
openings in the second half of last year.
One new store is planned for 2007/08.
Brico Dépôt’s expansion into Spain
continued, with 10 stores now trading and
a further four planned for 2007/08. Good
underlying trading was boosted by a
strong construction market. In Russia,
two Castorama stores were opened in St
Petersburg and Samara, a large provincial
city. A third was acquired in Moscow in
Operating review Rest of Europe
December and will be relaunched under
the Castorama banner in the first half of
2007/08. A further two stores are planned
to open in 2007/08. 
Koc
5
tas
5
in Turkey, a 50% joint venture,
continued to grow sales and retail profit,
benefiting from increased buying power
and new Group sourced own-brands.
Three new stores opened taking the total
to 10 with four planned for 2007/08.
Hornbach, in which Kingfisher has a 21%
interest, contributed £19.2 million to retail
profit, £7.4 million higher than last year,
fuelled by a stronger home improvement
market in Germany.
All percentage movements above are in constant
currencies.
George Adams
Managing Director,
European Development
Russia 3
Turkey 10
Italy 27
Poland 35
Spain 10
Ireland
7
New store openings
15 new stores were 
opened in the year 
across six countries,
taking the total to 92.
26 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising Adapting to
local needs
Continued growth in Europe
Fifteen new stores were opened in the Rest
of Europe during the period, including three
in Russia, three in Spain and three in Turkey.
Castorama Poland and Italy delivered strong
growth in the year with the first Castorama
stores in Russia also trading well. Brico Dépôt
in Spain and the Ko
5
ctas
5
joint venture in Turkey
are now profitable at store level. B&Q China expands decoration service
A major part of B&Q’s business in China is
the fitting out and decoration of newly built
apartments like this one in Shanghai (pictured
right). Apartments are typically sold by developers
as empty concrete shells and customers can
choose all their furniture and fittings from B&Q.
A B&Q team of trained professionals then
completes the full decoration in just a few weeks.
B&Q China fitted out over 30,000 apartments
in this way last year, double the previous year’s
figure. B&Q Taiwan is also offering this service.
Adapted to the
local market Beijing
Tianjin
Dalian
Shenyang
Changchun
Harbin
Qingdao
Wuxi
10 Shanghai
Suzhou
Nanjing
Hefei
Hangzhou
Wuhan
Fuzhou
Guangzhou
Dongguan
Shenzhen
Kunming
Number of stores in each city
Chongqing
Chengdu
Xian
Xiamen
Zhuhai
Ningbo
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
2
3
2
3
2
3
3
3
2
6
5
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 29
Operating review Asia
Asia sales increased 42.2% to £456.7
million (+10.9% LFL), with retail profit of
£4.4 million, benefiting from strong profit
growth in China following the completion
and integration of the acquisition of the
OBI China business during 2005.
B&Q China
Sales increased 41.3% to £445.8 million
(+11.1% LFL), reflecting new store openings,
continuing strong consumer demand and
the development of new ranges. B&Q
China’s home decoration service designed
and fitted out 30,000 apartments in 2006,
double the previous year’s number,
representing a third of total sales. Retail
profit was £8.3 million (2005/06: £0.3 million).
During the first half of 2006/07, B&Q China
completed the conversion and integration
of the OBI stores ahead of schedule,
returning to profit in the balance of the year
with gross margins benefiting from increased
Group own-brand and sourcing programmes.
Store numbers increased by 10 to 58,
further consolidating its position as market
leader. A further seven new stores are
planned for 2007/08, including the first
Hong Kong store in June.
Steve Gilman
Chief Executive,
B&Q Asia
B&Q Taiwan
Yi Liu was appointed head
of B&Q Taiwan last year.
A growing presence
in China
B&Q now has 58 stores
in 25 cities in China,
including several large cities
in western China, such
as Kunming, which has
a population of five
million people.
China 
store numbers
99
December year end 
00 01 02 03
2
1
5
8
15
04 05 06
21
48
58
Other Asia
B&Q Taiwan, a 50% joint venture,
delivered a creditable performance in a
market affected by weak consumer
confidence and credit restrictions. One
store opened during the year, taking the
total to 21. Two new stores are planned
for 2007/08. B&Q Home in South Korea
opened a second trial store during the year.
All percentage movements above are in constant
currencies.
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising 30 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Reporting period
The Group’s financial reporting year ends
on the nearest Saturday to 31 January.
The current year is for the 53 weeks ended
3 February 2007 with the comparative
financial period being the 52 weeks ended
28 January 2006. This only impacts the UK
operations with all of the other operations
reporting on a calendar basis as a result
of local statutory requirements.
The effect of the 53rd week on the
results of the Group is the inclusion of an
additional £79.5 million revenue and
£0.2 million operating profit.
So that the results are more readily
comparable, all of the UK like-for-like (LFL)
analysis has been calculated comparing
the 53 weeks against 53 weeks last year.
Total reported sales grew 8.3% to
£8.7 billion, up 7.4% on a 52 week constant
currency basis. During the year, an additional
73 net new stores were added, taking the
store network to 718. On an LFL basis,
sales were up 0.9%.
Operating profit grew 86.0% principally
reflecting the B&Q UK restructuring
exceptional charge last year of 
£205.3 million.
The net interest charge for the year
was £50.8 million, up £13.1 million from
the prior year reflecting higher average net
debt during the year and higher euro and
Sterling interest rates. The net interest
charge benefited from a net interest return
on the defined benefit schemes of
£6.3 million (2005/06: £3.8 million expense).
Adjusted pre-tax profit declined 11.0%
reflecting challenging trading conditions in
the UK and France.
Taxation
The effective overall rate of tax on profit has
decreased from 40.0% in the prior year to
24.9%, primarily reflecting exceptional costs
not qualifying for tax relief in the prior year.
The effective rate of tax on profit before
exceptional items and excluding prior year
tax adjustments is 32.0% (2005/06: 34.4%)
reflecting Group profit mix and use of losses
in start-up jurisdictions.
Exceptional items
The Group recorded an exceptional profit in
the year of £49.5 million on the disposal of
properties and investments of which £42.7
million was recognised on the sale and
leaseback of seven large UK stores to The
British Land Company PLC.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share increased by
140.0% to 14.4p. Adjusted earnings per
share as calculated below declined 3.3%
from 12.3p to 11.9p per share.
2006/07 2005/06
Basic earnings per share 14.4p 6.0p
Exceptional items 
(net of tax) (2.4)p 6.4p
Financing fair value 
remeasurements (net of tax) (0.1)p (0.1)p
Adjusted earnings per share 11.9p 12.3p
Dividends
The Board has proposed a final dividend
of 6.8p per share, making the total dividend
for the year 10.65p per share, unchanged
on the prior year. This dividend is covered
1.1 times by adjusted earnings (2005/06:
1.2 times).
Return on invested capital (ROIC)
ROIC is defined as net operating profit less
adjusted taxes (adjusted operating profit
excluding property lease and property
depreciation costs less tax, plus property
revaluation increases in the year) divided by
average invested capital (average net
assets less financing related balances and
pension provisions plus property operating
lease costs capitalised at the long-term
property yield).
Following the transition to IFRS, the
Group elected not to revalue properties
from 1 February 2004. However, property
appreciation is an integral part of a ROIC
measure and therefore Kingfisher continues
to include revaluation gains and the current
market value of our properties in 
ROIC calculations.
Financial review
Financial summary
A summary of the reported financial results for the 
year ended 3 February 2007 is set out below:
2006/07 2005/06 Increase/
£m £m (decrease)
Revenue 8,675.9 8,010.1 8.3%
Operating profit 501.3 269.5 86.0%
Profit before taxation 450.5 231.8 94.3%
Adjusted pre-tax profit 396.6 445.7 (11.0)%
Basic earnings per share 14.4p 6.0p 140%
Adjusted earnings per share 11.9p 12.3p (3.3)%
Dividends 10.65p 10.65p –
Underlying Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) 6.9% 7.3% (0.4)pps
A reconciliation of statutory profit to adjusted 
profit is set out below:
2006/07 2005/06 Increase/
£m £m (decrease)
Profit before taxation 450.5 231.8 94.3%
Exceptional items (49.5) 215.4
Profit before exceptional items and taxation 401.0 447.2 (10.3)%
Financing fair value remeasurements (4.7) (1.6)
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 0.3 0.1
Adjusted pre-tax profit 396.6 445.7 (11.0)%
Income tax expense on pre-exceptional profit (119.4) (161.6)
Income tax on fair value remeasurements 1.4 0.5
Minority interests (1.6) 0.5
Adjusted post-tax profit 277.0 285.1 (2.8)%
Duncan Tatton-Brown
Group Finance Director 07   08   09   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   >18
50
330
500
363
105
250
41
91
150
£ equivalent millions Bank loan
euro MTN
Revolving credit facility
Sterling MTN
US Private Placement
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 31
ROIC declined from 9.0% to 8.7%,
compared to the Group’s weighted
average cost of capital of 7.4%, down 0.5
percentage points on last year primarily
due to a fall in property yields.
Underlying ROIC declined from 7.3%
to 6.9%. Underlying ROIC assumes
properties appreciate in value at a steady
rate over the long-term. When calculating
the underlying ROIC, short-term variations
in property values more or less than the
long-term mean are excluded.
Capital expenditure
Kingfisher continues to prioritise its capital
investment into projects and businesses
that offer the potential for the most
attractive returns. This is supported
by a rigorous capital allocation process:
• An annual strategic planning process
(which leads into the budget process for
the following year) based on detailed plans
for all businesses for the next five years.
This process drives the key strategic
capital allocation decisions and the output
is reviewed by the Board, twice a year;
• A capital approval process through a
capital expenditure committee chaired by
the Group Finance Director delegated to
review all projects between £0.75 million
and £7.5 million (including the capitalised
value of lease commitments);
• Projects above this level are approved by
the Executive Committee or the Board
although all projects above £0.75 million
are notified to the Board; and
• An annual post-investment review process
to review the performance of all projects
above £0.75 million which were completed
in the prior year. The findings of this
exercise are considered by both the
Executive Committee and the Board and
ROIC excluding goodwill
Kingfisher’s sales, projected space growth for 2007/08, invested capital and underlying ROIC excluding goodwill are disclosed below by
strategic priority:
Retail Sales Proportion of Invested Capital Proportion of Returns % Space growth 
£bn
1
Group sales % (IC) £bn
2
Group IC % (ROIC)
2
next year % 
Strengthening developed businesses
– B&Q UK 3.9 45% 5.7 66% 7% 2%
– Castorama France 1.6 19% 1.1 13% 10% 1%
Sub-total 5.5 64% 6.8 79% 8% 2%
Expanding proven growth businesses 3.1 35% 1.6 19% 13% 11%
Establishing new opportunities 0.1 1% 0.2 2% (2)% 47%
for the future
Group total 8.7 100% 8.6 100% 9% 6%
directly influence the assumptions for
similar project proposals going forward.
Gross capital expenditure (excluding
business acquisitions) for the Group was
£466.9 million (2005/06: £507.0 million).
£219.5 million was spent on property
(2005/06: £188.0 million) and £247.4
million on fixtures, fittings and intangibles
(2005/06: £319.0 million). A total of
£251.1 million (2005/06: £111.6 million)
of proceeds from disposals were received
during the year, £251.0 million of which
came from property disposals.
Payments to acquire businesses in the
year amounted to £2.2 million (2005/06:
£167.5 million) which related to the
purchase of three minorities in China.
Cashflow
The Group generated £559.4 million of cash
from operating activities in the year, up
£255.3 million on the prior year (2005/06:
cash generated £304.1 million), despite
paying additional post employment
contributions of £82.5 million (2005/06:
£135.2 million) and £47.0 million on items
provided against as exceptional costs
in 2005/06. Included within this
improvement is £124.1 million generated
from working capital management
(2005/06: £103.3 million utilised). This was
mainly driven by creditors which rose by
£295.1 million (2005/06: £27.3 million)
whilst stock levels rose by £215.0 million
(2005/06: £33.3 million). Net capital
expenditure was £215.8 million (2005/06:
£395.4 million) which has fallen year on
year as a result of disposals within the
Group’s property portfolio.
The resulting year end net debt was
£1,293.8 million (2005/06: £1,355.2 million).
Financing
Kingfisher aims to smooth the maturity
profile of its debt by issuing debt with
different maturities and by utilising
committed bank revolving credit facilities
to provide additional liquidity.
In March 2006, the Group obtained a
further £300 million committed bank facility,
which provided short-term funding, but this
was subsequently repaid and cancelled.
In May 2006, the Group issued
US$466.5 million of fixed term debt
through the US Private Placement market.
The debt was issued in three tranches,
with maturities of 7, 10 and 12 years, and
the proceeds were swapped to Sterling at
floating interest rates. The proceeds were
used to repay the £300 million short-term
committed bank facility entered into in
March 2006.
The Group has access to a £500
million committed revolving credit facility,
maturing in August 2011, provided by a
number of banks. This facility is available
The debt and maturity profile of Kingfisher’s
debt and bank facilities as at 3 February 2007
is illustrated as follows:
1
For the UK businesses, reported total sales figures are
for the 53 weeks ended 3 February 2007. Outside
the UK, figures are on a calendar month basis.
2
Excluding goodwill of £2.6 billion but including
smoothed property appreciation and leases
capitalised at long-term yields.
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising 32 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
The Board considers risk assessment,
identification of mitigating actions and
internal control to be fundamental to
achieving Kingfisher’s strategic corporate
objectives. The Corporate Governance
report on pages 39 to 42 describes the
systems and processes though which the
directors manage and mitigate risks. The
Board considers that the principal risks to
achieving its objectives are set out below.
The Board recognises that the nature and
scope of risks can change and so regularly
reviews the risks faced by the Group as
well as the systems and processes to
mitigate them.
Economic and market conditions
The economy is a major influence on
consumer spending. Trends in employment,
inflation, taxation, consumer debt levels
and interest rates impact consumer demand
for discretionary spending on the home.
Whilst predicting future trends is very difficult,
Kingfisher reflects the latest independently-
sourced estimates in its internal plans.
Furthermore, international expansion
not only provides opportunities for
sustainable growth and returns but also
economic diversification. The UK now
Risks
provision held in 2006. This reduction was
as a result of additional payments to the
UK pension scheme (£118.3 million was
paid compared to a normal contribution
of around £40 million per annum) and
increases in the discount rate used to
calculate the defined benefit obligation from
4.7% to 5.3% as a result of increases to
corporate bond rates over the year. This
was partly offset by changed mortality rates
with an assumption that people will live
longer. This change increased the obligation
by approximately 4% and ensures that these
assumptions remain in line with current
market best estimates. Further disclosures
of the assumptions used (including mortality
assumptions) are provided in note 28 of
the consolidated financial statements.
A formal actuarial valuation is scheduled
as at 31 March 2007 with the results
expected towards the end of 2007.
Treasury risk management
Kingfisher’s Treasury function has primary
responsibility for managing certain financial
risks to which the Group is exposed. The
Board reviews the levels of exposure
regularly and approves Treasury policies
covering the use of financial instruments
required to manage these risks.
Liquidity risk – The Group manages its
exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing the
cash resources required to meet its
business objectives and by promoting a
diversity of funding sources and debt
maturities.
Credit risk – Credit risk of third parties
that the Group deals with is managed by
setting a credit limit using published credit
ratings. The exposure against this limit is
determined by taking account of the full
value of deposits and a proportion of the
value of derivative contracts.
Interest rate risk – The Group manages
its interest rate risk by entering into certain
interest rate derivative contracts which
modify the interest rate payable on the
Group’s underlying debt instruments,
principally the Medium Term Notes.
Currency risk – The Group’s principal
currency exposures are to the euro, the
US dollar and the Chinese Renminbi. The
euro exposure is operational and arises
through the ownership of the retail
businesses in France, Italy and Spain.
Balance sheet euro translation exposure is
substantially hedged by maintaining a
proportion of the Group’s debt in euro. In
China, balance sheet translation exposure
is partly hedged by local debt in China and
partly by forward foreign exchange contracts
entered into to hedge this exposure.
However, it is the Group’s policy not to
hedge the translation of overseas earnings
(primarily euro) into Sterling. In addition,
the Group has a significant transaction
exposure arising on the purchase of
products for re-sale denominated in US
dollars. Under Group policies, the Group
companies are required to hedge
committed product purchases and a
proportion of forecast product purchases
arising in the next 12 months.
Use and fair value of financial
instruments – In the normal course of
business the Group uses financial
instruments including derivative financial
instruments. The main types of financial
instruments used are Medium Term Notes,
loans and deposits, interest rate swaps,
cross currency interest rate swaps, spot
and forward currency contracts, and
currency options. Further disclosure on
derivative financial instruments is provided
in note 25.
to be drawn to support the general
corporate purposes of the Group including
working capital requirements. 
Since the year end the Group has
entered into new committed revolving
credit facilities totalling £275 million with a
number of banks, and a £25 million bank
committed term loan facility. These new
facilities mature in March 2010 and are
available to be drawn to support the
general corporate purposes of the Group.
Property
During the year the Group disposed of
properties for cash consideration of £251
million including £198 million on the sale of
seven B&Q UK large stores which it retained
the right to lease for 20 years. Through
this transaction, the Group took advantage
of the current buoyancy in the property
investment market in the UK to finance its
operational business at attractive rates
going forward. The proceeds of the
transaction were used to repay existing
debt and to invest in Kingfisher’s worldwide
store opening programme, including
further freehold acquisitions.
The Group owns a significant property
portfolio, most of which is used for trading
purposes. If the Group had continued to
revalue this it would have had a market
value of £3.2 billion at year end, compared
to the net book value of £2.3 billion
recorded in the financial statements. This
represents a £170 million increase against
the prior year and a £249 million increase
on a constant currency basis.
The values are based on valuations
performed by external qualified valuers
where the key assumption is the estimated
yields. The average income yields used
were 5.5% in the UK, 6.7% in France and
Italy, 6.8% in Poland and 7.7% in China.
Pensions
The Group holds a provision on its balance
sheet of £54.6 million in relation to defined
benefit pension arrangements which
is a reduction of £185.0 million on the
Italy 9%
Other 3% UK 35%
China 6%
France 36%
Poland 11%
Property market value by segment
Financial review continued Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 33
accounts for around half of Group sales,
France one third, and another nine countries
in Europe and Asia account for the
remainder. This year Kingfisher entered
Russia to gain exposure to this exciting,
fast-growing economy. For more details
see the Operating review on pages 20
to 29 and Customers and Stores sections
on pages 10 and 11.
Entering new markets 
International expansion provides the
opportunity for sustainable long-term
growth and economic returns for
shareholders. In some instances the best
opportunities are in less well-developed
markets where demand is growing fast and
competition has yet to capitalise on the
market potential. This represents a good
opportunity for Kingfisher but exposes it to
new cultural, regulatory and political risks.
Kingfisher only enters new markets
where the potential long-term growth and
returns opportunities outweigh the risks.
Extensive research is conducted before
entry and a strong management team
is recruited from local nationals who
understand the local culture, market
regulations and risks. Local advice, and
in some cases joint venture partners, are
also sought to mitigate risk. New stores
are opened as freehold sites to avoid
long-term contractual obligations and to
make country exit easier if needed. Initially
only a few test stores are opened and a
subsequent store roll-out is only committed
once the economic case has been proven.
Expansion in new, higher-risk developing
markets represents only a small proportion
of Kingfisher’s overall invested capital and
is unlikely to rise to a significant level. For
more details see the Operating review on
pages 26 to 29.
Competitive product ranges, prices
and customer service – In retail the only
thing that never changes is the need to keep
changing. Customer demand for products
and services can change rapidly and in a
competitive market only those retailers that
can keep evolving will be successful over the
longer-term.
Kingfisher continually monitors and
anticipates consumer trends and the
activities of its competitors. It works with
the best suppliers in the world to find the
latest products customers want, at the
best prices. As well as innovating product
ranges new services are increasingly being
introduced, recognising the growing number
of customers that want design, delivery
and installation of the products they buy. 
Examples of this continual adaptation
and innovation can be found throughout
the operating business reviews on pages
20 to 29. For more details see the
Suppliers section on pages 14 and 15. 
Innovation in big, developed
businesses – Kingfisher’s two biggest
businesses, B&Q UK and Castorama
France, have reached market leadership
in two of the largest and most competitive
markets in Europe. Constant innovation is
needed to keep these businesses ahead
of changing customer trends. Both are of
a size where constant innovation is more
challenging. 
Both businesses have now established
rolling change programmes where a
proportion of product ranges and existing
stores are refreshed each year. During the
year B&Q UK and Castorama France
revamped 11% and 7% respectively of
their store space, and introduced new
contemporary ranges of kitchens and
bathrooms – key home projects for
customers.
Ideas are regularly exchanged between
the two businesses and B&Q has recently
brought in experienced change managers
from Castorama France to work in the UK
and help speed up the rate of change. For
more details on the progress of B&Q UK and
Castorama France see pages 20 to 25.
Attracting and retaining the best people
– Retail is a people business. Each
individual business has local initiatives in
place to recruit, train and develop the best
people. In addition, Kingfisher runs
a number of cross-border senior
management programmes to retain the
best international talent and develop
leaders of the future. For more details see
the People section on pages 12 and 13.
Financial resources
Investment in the business is fundamental
to achieving Kingfisher’s aim of providing
shareholders with sustainable long-term
growth and returns. Kingfisher is investing
around £500 million a year expanding its
proven businesses in Europe and Asia and
revamping the existing store base of its
developed businesses.
Across the economic cycle Kingfisher
generates sufficient cash to maintain this
investment rate, pay a dividend to
shareholders and retain a healthy balance
sheet. At a lower point of the economic
cycle this balance is more challenging.
Kingfisher continues to look for working
capital efficiency improvements and ways
to minimise the cost of store expansion.
During the year, over £200 million was raised
by selling freehold assets in the UK to help
fund freehold asset purchases in Europe
and Asia needed to support expansion.
Kingfisher’s credit rating was lowered but
remains ‘investment grade’ quality and
is now described as ‘stable’ by the credit
agencies. The full year dividend payment
was kept at the same level as last year.
Crisis affecting trading and Kingfisher’s
reputation – A crisis can come in many
different forms and it is impossible to
anticipate and plan for every eventuality.
However, crisis management programmes
are well established in every business and
steps for identifying and dealing with
a crisis, including internal and external
communication, are clear and have been
successfully deployed. 
Internal controls are in place and are
regularly reviewed by internal and external
auditors under the direction of the local
business audit committees and the
Kingfisher Audit Committee. Disaster
recovery and business continuity plans are
in place and are regularly tested. Appropriate
insurance is held. For more details see the
Corporate Governance section on pages
39 to 42 and the Corporate responsibility
section on pages 18 and 19.
In-store safety
The health and safety of all our employees
and customers is extremely important. Six
million customers a week visit Kingfisher
stores across the world and every effort
is made to make their visit as safe and
enjoyable as possible.
Regulatory requirements vary from
country to country so management
responsibility is devolved to each operating
company which appoints a local safety
manager. Kingfisher’s Head Office 
facilitates the sharing of best practice and
the development of Group standards 
which are often higher than those local
regulatory requirements.
Fire safety is another key risk area and
substantial resource is invested in fixed
engineering systems and the training of 
our store teams.
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising 34 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Ian Cheshire
Chief Executive, B&Q UK
Appointed executive director in
June 2000 and Chief Executive,
B&Q UK in June 2005. He was
appointed Chief Executive
International and Development in
September 2002, Chief Executive
of e-Kingfisher in May 2000 and
was Group Director of Strategy
& Development. Before joining
Kingfisher he worked for
Guinness plc and a number
of retail businesses including
Sears plc where he was Group
Commercial Director. He is also
a non-executive director of
Bradford & Bingley plc. Age 47.
Member of the
Executive Committee.
Peter Jackson
Chairman
Peter Jackson joined the Board
as a non-executive director with
effect from 3 January 2006 and
took on the role of Chairman on
the retirement of Sir Francis
Mackay at the AGM on 24 May
2006. He retired as Chief Executive
of international food and retail
group Associated British Foods plc
(ABF) in April 2005, after six years
in that role. He joined the Board of
ABF in 1992 following its
acquisition of British Sugar plc. He
is also Senior Independent Director
of Smiths Group, the international
engineering group. Age 60.
Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee.
Gerry Murphy
Group Chief Executive
Appointed Group Chief Executive
and joined the Board in February
2003. Previously he was Chief
Executive Officer of media group
Carlton Communications plc, global
logistics firm Exel plc and food
manufacturer Greencore Group plc.
Earlier in his career, he held various
senior positions with food and drink
group Grand Metropolitan plc (now
Diageo plc) in Ireland, the UK and
USA. He is also a non-executive
director of Reckitt Benckiser plc.
Age 51.
Chairman of the Executive
Committee and Member of the
Nomination and Disclosure
Committees.
Daniel Bernard
Deputy Chairman and
Non-Executive Director
Appointed non-executive Deputy
Chairman on 24 May 2006. He
was Chairman and Chief Executive
of Carrefour, the Paris-based retail
group and world’s second largest
retailer, from 1992 to 2005. Prior
to Carrefour, he was Chief
Operating Officer of METRO,
Germany’s leading international
retailer. He is President of
Provestis, his own investment
company and a non-executive
director of Alcatel and Cap Gemini.
He was previously non-executive
director of Compagnie de St Gobain
until June 2006. Age 61.
Member of the Audit and
Nomination Committees.
Patrick Langlade
Chief Executive,
Brico Dépôt
Head of Brico Dépôt since
January 1995. He joined
Castorama in 1984 as a
store manager, then became
regional director in 1987. He
started his commercial career
in 1967 with Thomson/CSF,
then joined Citroën. Age 59.
Philippe Tible
Chief Executive,
Castorama France
Joined Castorama as Chief
Executive in February 2003.
He began his career at the
hypermarket group
Euromarché before joining
DIY chain Leroy Merlin where
he was Operations Director
for France and later
Managing Director for Asia.
He was also Asia Pacific
Director of furniture retail
group Conforama, part of
Pinault-Printemps-Redoute.
(PPR) Age 55.
George Adams
Managing Director,
European Development
George Adams is Managing
Director, European
Development. He is responsible
for the performance and
development of Poland,
Italy and Russia. He is also
Chief Executive of Kingfisher’s
UK Trade Division, which
comprises Screwfix Direct
and Trade Depot. Previously
he was Group Commercial
Director, Commercial Director
of B&Q, and a director of
Woolworths. He is a non-
executive director of Frontier
Economics Ltd. Age 50.
Ian Harding
Group Communications
Director
Responsible for investor
relations, media relations and
internal communications.
He has worked for Kingfisher
for 10 years including senior
financial roles at operating
company and Group level
before his current role.
He is a Chartered Accountant
and spent eight years with
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
before joining Kingfisher.
Age 42.
Duncan Tatton-Brown
Group Finance Director
Appointed Group Finance Director
and a Director of the company in
February 2004. He was Finance
Director of B&Q UK from January
2001. Previously he was Chief
Financial Officer at Virgin
Entertainment Group and has
held various finance positions at
fashion retailer Burton Group plc.
He is also a non-executive director
of Rentokil Initial plc. Age 42.
Member of the Executive and
Disclosure Committees.
Terry Hartwell
Group Property Director
Responsible for all Group
Property matters and also
a director of B&Q UK and
a member of the Pension
Trustee Board. He has over
25 years’ experience in retail
property development.
Joined the Group in 1981.
Age 50.
Steve Gilman
Chief Executive,
B&Q Asia
Steve Gilman is Chief
Executive of B&Q Asia. He is
currently Chairman of B&Q
China, and is responsible for
B&Q Taiwan, B&Q Home
Korea and is a director of
B&Q UK. Prior to his current
role, he was International
Director at B&Q UK. He has
28 years’ service with B&Q
and Kingfisher. Age 50.
Senior management
Board of Directors Janis Kong
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in
December 2006. She is a non-
executive director of The Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
Portmeirion Group PLC and
VisitBritain, as well as being
Chairman of the trustees of Forum
for the Future. She was, until her
retirement in March 2006, a
director of BAA plc and Chairman
of Heathrow Airport Ltd for five
years as well as Chairman of
Heathrow Express. Prior to that
she was Managing Director of
Gatwick Airport and held a number
of operational roles within BAA
during her 33 year career with the
company. Age 56.
Member of the Remuneration and
Nomination Committees.
Hartmut Krämer
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in
November 2002 having been
Chief Executive Officer of the
retail clothing group, Peek &
Cloppenburg, and subsequently
of Groupe Redcats, the home
shopping division of Pinault-
Printemps-Redoute (PPR). He is
also a non-executive director of
GSE SAS, Toupargel-Agrigel S.A.
and Alfesca Ltd. Age 60.
Member of the
Nomination Committee.
Michael Hepher
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in
September 1997. He is non-
executive director of Catlin Group
Ltd, Canada Life (U.K.) Ltd and
Great West Life Assurance
Company. His former roles include
non-executive Chairman of Lane,
Clark and Peacock, non-executive
Chairman of TeleCity plc,
Chairman and Chief Executive
of Charterhouse plc, Group
Managing Director of BT plc and
non-executive director of Diageo
plc and Lloyds Bank plc. Age 63.
Member of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination
Committees.
Phil Bentley
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in October
2002. He is also Managing
Director of British Gas, and has
been on the Board of Centrica plc
since 2000, which he joined as
Group Finance Director. He
previously spent five years at
Diageo plc and 15 years in
international finance roles at BP
plc. Age 48.
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and Member of the
Nomination Committee.
Paul Mir
Group Commercial
Director
Paul Mir became Group
Commercial Director in
January 2007, when he
joined Kingfisher. Previously
he was Group Purchasing
Director and then Commercial
Director of Fnac, France’s
leading consumer electrical
and entertainment retailer,
part of Pinault-Printemps-
Redoute (PPR). Previously he
spent 19 years at Promodes
and Carrefour in operations,
logistics and purchasing in
Europe and Asia. Age 46.
John Nelson
Deputy Chairman and 
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed non-executive Deputy
Chairman in January 2002. He is
Chairman of European real estate
group Hammerson plc and a
non-executive director of BT
Group plc. He retired as Chairman
of Credit Suisse First Boston
in 2002 and was formerly Vice
Chairman of Lazard Brothers
and non-executive director of
Woolwich plc. Age 59.
Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee and Member of the
Audit and Nomination Committees.
Helen Jones
Director of Governance
and Corporate Services
Responsible for Company
Secretarial, Legal and
Legislative Affairs, Corporate
Governance matters and
Group Corporate
Responsibility. She is also
a member of the Pension
Trustee Board. She has spent
20 years at Kingfisher.
Age 51.
Tony Williams
Group Human Resources
Director
Joined Kingfisher in June
2005. He spent his early
career at GEC and News
International before joining
WH Smith Retail as Human
Resources Director in 1994.
Prior to joining Kingfisher he
was Group Human Resources
Director of Carlton
Communications plc. Age 49.
Claude Acquart
Chief Executive,
Castorama Poland
Claude Acquart has been
head of Castorama Poland
since he established the
business in 1994. He joined
Castorama France in 1978
and was store manager at
Montpellier Lattes in France
for 10 years. Age 58.
Giulio Maleci
Chief Executive,
Castorama Italy
Giulio Maleci was appointed
Chief Executive of Castorama
Italy in May 2006. He has
held a number of senior roles
in international businesses
including Olivetti and
Electrolux, working in the
USA, Italy and France. Most
recently, he was General
Manager of fashion retailer
UPIM in Italy, part of the
La Rinascente group. Age 53.
Mariusz Gliwinski
President, B&Q China
Mariusz Gliwinski joined B&Q
China as President in
November 2006. He began
his retail career working for a
Polish food retailer in 1993.
From 1996 to 2003, he
worked for DIY chain Nomi
in Poland which grew from
three to 40 stores during this
period. He was then appointed
as Managing Director of B&Q
Taiwan in 2004. Age 36.
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 35 36 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
The directors are pleased to present their
report for the financial year ended
3 February 2007.
Principal activities and developments
in the year
Kingfisher is an international home
improvement business operating in
markets that fit strategic criteria of
attractive scale, structure and economics.
Operating principally through its main retail
brands B&Q, Castorama, Brico Dépôt and
Screwfix Direct, Kingfisher operates in
11 countries across Europe and Asia and
is market leader in six countries. This
continues to give the Group an excellent
platform for growth in all of its markets. In
addition, Kingfisher has property interests
in the countries in which it operates, which
are primarily managed through the relevant
retail business. 
A review of the business, providing
a comprehensive analysis of the main
trends and factors likely to affect the
development, performance and position
of the business, including environmental,
employee, social and community issues,
together with the Group’s Key
Performance Indicators (KPIs), and a
description of the principal risks and
uncertainties facing the business is
detailed on pages 2 to 33 as follows:
Strategy at a glance (page 2), KPIs
(pages 4 and 5), review of the business
and progress, including an overview of
markets, customers, stores, people and
their development, suppliers, innovation
and corporate responsibility (pages 6 to 19),
Operating review (pages 20 to 29),
Finance review (pages 30 to 32) and risks
(pages 32 and 33).
In June 2006, the first Brico Dépôt
store in Warsaw, Poland was opened.
Three Castorama stores are now open
in Russia and have been well received.
In Turkey, Kingfisher’s Ko
5
ctas
5
joint venture
is now the market leader. The integration
programme of the OBI China stores,
acquired in June 2005, to the B&Q China
format was completed during the year.
Kingfisher’s 700th store was opened
in 2006.
In July 2006, Kingfisher announced an
agreement to sell seven B&Q large format
stores to The British Land Company PLC.
B&Q developed a new store format for
implementation in all larger stores with
improved in-store service and product
ranges. Eleven larger stores were in the
new format as at the end of 2006/07. The
Screwfix Trade Counters concept has
continued to perform well and 31 sites
were opened in the year. Trade Depot, the
trial of a new format focused on UK trade
customers, opened two more trial
branches during the year, taking the total
to four.
Results and dividends
The profit before taxation of the Group
amounted to £450.5m (2006: £231.8m)
with a profit after taxation of £338.4m
(2006: £139.0m).
During the year, the market value of
the Group’s land and buildings increased
to £3,136.5m; £850.2m above their net
carrying amount. The market value of the
Group’s investment properties increased
to £38.7m; £9.3m above their net carrying
amount.
Kingfisher paid an interim dividend
of 3.85p (2006: 3.85p) per ordinary share
amounting to £89.9m (2006: £89.5m)
on 10 November 2006. The directors
recommend a final dividend of 6.8p (2006:
6.8p) per ordinary share, amounting to
£161.8m (2006: £158.5m), to be paid on
8 June 2007 to those shareholders whose
names are on the register of members at
the close of business on 10 April 2007,
making a total for the year of 10.65p
(2006: 10.65p) per ordinary share
amounting to £251.7m (2006: £248.0m).
The ex-dividend date will be 4 April 2007.
Dividend cheques and tax vouchers will be
posted on 6 June 2007.
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP),
introduced in June 2005, is available to all
shareholders who would prefer to invest
their dividends in the shares of the
Company. If shareholders wish to elect for
the DRIP for the final dividend and have
not already done so, a letter or completed
DRIP mandate form must be received by
the Company’s Registrars by 17 May
2007. Certificates for shareholders electing
for the DRIP will be posted by no later
than 21 June 2007. Further details of the
DRIP and an application form are available
from the Company’s Registrars.
Directors
Details of the directors of the Company
are shown on pages 34 and 35, and in the
Corporate Governance report on page 39.
Peter Jackson was appointed as
Chairman on 24 May 2006 following the
retirement of Sir Francis Mackay, and
on the same date Daniel Bernard was
appointed non-executive Deputy
Chairman. Margaret Salmon retired from
the Board on 8 December 2006 and on
the same date Janis Kong was appointed
as a non-executive director.
Re-election of directors
The Articles of Association require one
third of the directors who are subject to
retirement by rotation to retire and submit
themselves for re-election at the Annual
General Meeting (AGM) each year and, in
any event, at least once every three years.
Accordingly, Phil Bentley and John Nelson
retire by rotation and are offering themselves
for re-election. Having served for nine
years as a non-executive director and in
accordance with the Combined Code,
Michael Hepher is also retiring and offers
himself for re-election. Daniel Bernard and
Janis Kong, having both been appointed
since the last AGM, also retire in accordance
with the Company’s Articles of Association,
and resolutions for their election will be
proposed. The Board continues to believe
that all the non-executive directors standing
for election or re-election are independent,
and that they make an effective and
valuable contribution to the Board.
None of the non-executive directors
standing for election or re-election has a
service contract with the Company.
Directors’ interests
The directors who held office at 3 February
2007 had the following interests, all of
which were beneficial, in the shares
of the Company:
Shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares
3 February 2007 28 January 2006
or, if later, on
appointment
Phil Bentley 18,097 18,097
Daniel Bernard 10,000 10,000
Ian Cheshire 22,879 16,860
Michael Hepher 1,599 1,599
Peter Jackson 60,000 60,000
Janis Kong 24,000 10,000
Hartmut Krämer - -
Gerry Murphy 359,151 242,167
John Nelson 43,750 43,750
Duncan Tatton-Brown 57,688 31,117
The directors’ interests in options over
shares of the Company as at 3 February
2007 are shown within the Remuneration
report on pages 43 to 51.
As they are potential beneficiaries of
Directors’ report Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 37
the Kingfisher Employee Share Ownership
Plan Trust, the executive directors were
also technically interested in 20,963,550
shares at the year end.
No director has any interest in any
shares or loan stock of any other Group
company, other than a small number of
shares held by certain directors in French
subsidiaries of the Company as a result of
the French company law requirement that
directors hold ‘qualifying’ shares.
On 28 March 2007 the number of
shares in the Kingfisher Employee Share
Ownership Plan Trust in which the
directors were technically interested was
20,605,689. Other than this change, since
the year end there have been no changes
to the directors’ interests in the shares of
the Company.
Deeds of indemnity
As at the date of this report, indemnities
are in force under which the Company has
agreed to indemnify the directors, to the
extent permitted by law and the Company’s
Articles of Association, in respect of all
losses arising out of, or in connection with,
the execution of their powers, duties and
responsibilities, as directors of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Going concern
The directors confirm that, after reviewing
expenditure commitments, expected cash
flows and borrowing facilities, they have a
reasonable expectation that Kingfisher has
adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason they continue to
adopt the going concern basis in
preparing these accounts.
Employee involvement 
The Board continues to emphasise high
standards of customer care and service in
each operating company. The commitment
of employees to this principle is vital, and
each operating company has developed
channels of communication to help people
to expand their knowledge of, and
involvement with, Kingfisher.
These channels include attitude surveys,
briefing groups, internal magazines and
newsletters that report on business
performance and objectives, community
involvement and other issues. Kingfisher’s
intranet systems are also used to
communicate results announcements to
employees throughout the Group and to
distribute information about other important
business developments.
Directors and senior management
regularly visit stores and discuss with
employees matters of current interest
and concern.
To supplement existing communication
within each business, the Kingfisher
European Forum was established in 2003.
The Forum provides information and
consultation with employee representatives
from Kingfisher’s businesses in EU countries
on specified trans-national business issues
affecting those countries.
We are committed to and focused
on the development of our people and
have identified a talent population across
the organisation in whom we will invest
significantly to further the capability of our
leaders, both now and in the future. We
are committed with passion and energy to
the challenges we face across our business
and strive for excellence in our leadership.
The use of in-house and specialist
training programmes as well as links with
the general educational sector, reinforces
Kingfisher’s commitment to employee
involvement and development. Employees
are also represented on the trustee board
of Kingfisher’s UK pension arrangements.
All UK employees (as well as those
in Ireland and Hong Kong) are entitled
to participate in Kingfisher’s long-standing
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme
(ShareSave), regardless of numbers of
hours worked, provided they meet certain
service conditions. In addition, save-as-
you-earn plans, not linked directly to the
purchase of Kingfisher shares, operate
in other countries along similar lines to the
UK scheme, taking account of local tax
and legal requirements.
Respect for the diversity of people 
Kingfisher is committed to treating its
employees and customers with dignity and
respect, and to valuing diversity. Kingfisher
strives to create an environment that
respects, welcomes and enables our
employees to reach their full potential for
the benefit of the Company and themselves.
It is Kingfisher’s policy to:
• Ensure that there is no discrimination in
employment on grounds of race, gender,
age, disability, marital status, sexual
orientation, or religious belief;
• Implement measures to ensure a level
of customer service for disabled people
equivalent to that offered to non-disabled
people; and
• Maintain a mechanism which customers
and employees can use to give feedback
on performance and ensure that all customer
comments are analysed, responded to
and acted upon.
Kingfisher sets specific standards on
diversity across the Group through its social
and environmental management system,
Steps to Responsible Growth, which can
be found on pages 18 and 19. Kingfisher
monitors the diversity profile of employees
(including gender, age, disability and
ethnicity). Diversity data is published in the
Corporate responsibility report, available
on the website www.kingfisher.com/cr.
Charitable donations 
Kingfisher and its subsidiaries made
contributions to charity/community projects
worth an estimated £1.3m in the financial
year ended 3 February 2007 – equivalent
to 0.3% of pre-tax profits. This included
cash donations (£0.5m) and gifts-in-kind
(£0.6m). Support was also given through
the donation of time by employees (£0.2m).
Supplier payment policy
The Company does not impose standard
payment terms on its suppliers but agrees
specific terms with each of them, and then
pays in accordance with those terms. The
Company is a holding company and
therefore has no trade creditors.
Purchase of own shares
At the AGM on 24 May 2006 shareholders
approved a resolution for the Company
to make purchases of its own shares
to a maximum number of 235,442,883
ordinary shares. This resolution remains
valid until the conclusion of this year’s
AGM. As at 3 February 2007 the directors
had not used this authority. It is Kingfisher’s
present intention to cancel any shares
acquired under such authority, unless
purchased to satisfy outstanding awards
under employee share incentive plans. 38 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Company Number of Percentage of issued
shares held share capital held
Capital Research and Management Company 188,567,818 8.07%
Amvescap PLC 117,914,880 5.04%
Barclays PLC 93,677,648 3.98%
Walter Scott & Partners Limited 92,178,075 3.94%
Legal & General Group Plc 83,732,616 3.58%
Disclosure of information to auditors
Each person who is a director at the date
of approval of this report confirms that:
so far as he or she is aware, there is
no relevant audit information of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
each director has taken all the steps that
he or she ought to have taken as a director
to make him or herself aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish
that the Company’s auditors are aware of
that information. This confirmation is given
and should be interpreted in accordance
with the provisions of Section 234ZA of
the Companies Act 1985.
By Order of the Board
Helen Jones
Company Secretary
28 March 2007
Directors’ responsibility statement 
The following statement is made with
a view to distinguishing for shareholders
the respective responsibilities of the
directors and the auditors in relation to the
financial statements.
The directors are required by company
law to prepare financial statements for
each financial year which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and Group as at the end of the
financial year and of the profit for the year
to that date. In preparing the financial
statements the directors are required to:
• Ensure that the Company keeps
accounting records which disclose with
reasonable accuracy the financial position
of the Company and which enable them
to ensure that the financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 1985;
• Take such steps as are reasonably open
to them to safeguard the assets of the
Company and Group and to prevent and
detect fraud and other irregularities;
• Apply suitable accounting policies in a
consistent manner and supported by
reasonable and prudent judgements and
estimates where necessary;
• Comply with applicable accounting
standards (except where any departures
from this requirement are explained in the
notes to the financial statements); and
• Ensure the maintenance and integrity
of the Company’s website. Information
published on the internet is accessible
in many countries with different legal
requirements. Legislation in the United
Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Major shareholders
As at 28 March 2007, the Company had
been notified in accordance with the
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the
UKLA and previously the Companies Act
1985 of the following major interests in the
Company’s shares:
Directors’ report continued Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 39
Combined Code statement
Kingfisher is committed to maintaining the
highest standards of corporate governance.
The Board endorses the principles set out
in the Combined Code 2003, and during
the year ended 3 February 2007 the
Company has complied in full with the
requirements of the Code throughout
the year. 
Board of Directors
The role of the Board is to determine the
Group’s strategy and provide appropriate
leadership. It oversees management’s
implementation of the strategy and acts
as a sounding board for senior executives.
It also provides a critical overview of
strategic risks and monitors the adequacy
of the Group’s control environment.
The matters which are reserved to the
Board and the authorities delegated to
management are contained within the
Matters Reserved for the Board (available
at www.kingfisher.com) as well as within
various policies covering such matters as
treasury management, capital expenditure
approvals, legal matters and internal audit. 
The policies referred to above and the
system of internal controls are also
supported by Kingfisher’s Code of
Conduct. A formal review of the Code
of Conduct was undertaken during the
year and improvements are currently
being implemented across all operating
companies. The Code of Conduct is
available to all employees in their own
language and, to the extent possible,
forms part of the employees’ contract
of employment.
Kingfisher’s Board currently comprises
the Chairman, two Deputy Chairmen, four
other independent non-executive directors,
the Group Chief Executive and two other
executive directors. Peter Jackson
assumed the role of Chairman following
the retirement of Sir Francis Mackay (at
the 2006 AGM). Two new non-executive
directors were appointed during the year.
Daniel Bernard, who was appointed non-
executive Deputy Chairman on 24 May
2006, will share the position of Deputy
Chairman with John Nelson until the AGM
in 2007, when Mr Nelson will step down
from that role but will remain as the Senior
Independent Director. Janis Kong was
appointed as a non-executive director on
8 December 2006 following the retirement
of Margaret Salmon after nine years’
service as a non-executive director. 
Having regard to the Combined Code,
and the output from the Board evaluation
process, the Board believes all the non-
executive directors to be independent,
including Michael Hepher, notwithstanding
the fact that he has served for more than
nine years as a director. 
There is a clear and documented division
of responsibilities between the Chairman
and the Group Chief Executive, which is
available at www.kingfisher.com. The
Senior Independent Director is John Nelson.
The non-executive directors share
responsibility for the execution of the
Board’s duties and are actively involved
in the development of the Company’s
strategy. They are also required to provide
advice to the Group Chief Executive,
to scrutinise performance and assess risks
and the integrity of financial information
and controls, to ensure appropriate
remuneration and succession planning
for executive directors, and to ensure that
individual business decisions conform
to agreed strategies and policies.
All directors are provided with, and
have full and timely access to, information
that enables them to make informed
decisions on corporate and business
issues, including operational and financial
performance, risk management and
business plans. In particular, the Board
receives monthly information on the
performance and results of the Group and
the individual operating businesses. The
executive directors receive daily information
on sales and weekly information on margin
for the Group.
In addition to the schedule of matters
reserved for itself, the Board has delegated
certain matters to a number of standing
committees with defined terms of reference,
which are published on the Company’s
website at www.kingfisher.com. The Board
members’ length of service and their
committee membership is shown in the
table below:
Name Length of service Age Board Committee membership
Peter Jackson 1 year and 3 months 60 Nomination (Chairman)
Phil Bentley 4 years and 6 months 48 Audit (Chairman), Nomination
Daniel Bernard 10 months 61 Audit, Nomination
Ian Cheshire 6 years and 10 months 47 Executive
Michael Hepher 9 years and 7 months 63 Audit, Nomination, Remuneration
Janis Kong 4 months 56 Nomination, Remuneration
Hartmut Krämer 4 years and 5 months 60 Nomination
Gerry Murphy 4 years and 2 months 51 Nomination, Executive, Disclosure
John Nelson 5 years and 3 months 59 Remuneration (Chairman), 
Audit, Nomination
Duncan Tatton-Brown 3 years and 2 months 42 Executive, Disclosure
Corporate Governance report 40 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
The directors’ biographies, which can be
found on pages 34 and 35, illustrate the
directors’ range of experience, which is
intended to provide an effective Board to
lead and control Kingfisher. Non-executive
directors are appointed for an initial term
of three years.
On appointment, each director receives
a tailored induction programme which
includes:
• Individual time with the Chairman, the
Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance
Director and other senior corporate
executives;
• Visits to Group and competitors’ stores;
• Meetings with management of the
operating businesses; and
• External training courses at the Company’s
expense, if required.
External training at the Company’s expense
is available on an ongoing basis and the
Board visits and meets with a number
of operating companies and their
management teams each year.
In addition, ad hoc update training
is provided on appropriate matters and
in 2006 this included relevant sections
of the Companies Act 2006, including
in particular those affecting directors and
their responsibilities.
Comprehensive Directors’ & Officers
liability insurance is provided by a reputable
insurer covering all past, present and future
director and officer appointments. Cover is
in respect of any actual or alleged breach
of duty, breach of trust, neglect, error,
misleading statement, omission, breach
of warranty or authority or other act by the
directors in their respective capacity.
The Board regards independent
performance evaluation as an important
part of monitoring and improving its
effectiveness. This year a further evaluation
of the Board and its committees was
undertaken by JCA, an independent
consultant and the output and implications
for improvement were considered by the
whole Board.
The results of the Board evaluation are
used by the Chairman for assessing the
individual performance of directors and will
inform the Nomination Committee’s
assessment of the skills required by any
new non-executive directors.
The attendance record of individual
directors at Board and committee
meetings is detailed below. In addition the
non-executive directors met separately,
once, without the Chairman.
Board meetings Committee meetings
Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Disclosure
Number of meetings in year 9434 12 2
Francis Mackay 
1
2112 - -
Peter Jackson 8433 - -
Gerry Murphy 9334 12 2
John Nelson 9434 - -
Phil Bentley 9 4 3---
Daniel Bernard 
2
6- 2---
Ian Cheshire 9 - 2 - 10 -
Michael Hepher 9434 - -
Janis Kong 
3
2-----
Hartmut Krämer 9 - 3 1 - -
Margaret Salmon 
4
7334 - -
Duncan Tatton-Brown 9422 12 2
1
Resigned on 24 May 2006
2
Appointed on 24 May 2006
3
Appointed on 8 December 2006
4
Resigned on 8 December 2006
Non-attendance at Board and Committee
meetings is rare, usually when either an
unexpected commitment arises, or, for
newly appointed directors, there is a prior
clash with a meeting which had been
timetabled and could not be rearranged.
Directors are generally provided with the
papers for Board and Committee meetings
a week in advance of the meeting and
directors who are unable to attend provide
comments and feedback to either the
Chairman, Chairman of the Committee
or the Company Secretary, all of whom
ensure those comments and views are
raised at the meeting.
Details of the Audit and Nomination
Committees are provided in the individual
reports of those Committees on page 52.
The details of the Remuneration
Committee are in the Remuneration report
on pages 43 to 51.
The Executive Committee formally
comprises the executive directors of the
Company. In addition, members of the senior
management team attend the meetings.
The Committee’s terms of reference can
be found at www.kingfisher.com. The
Committee provides an effective method
of ensuring the active participation of
senior operational management in
understanding the key issues facing
Kingfisher, as a UK listed company. The
Committee’s responsibilities in relation
to risk management and internal control,
and corporate responsibility, are set out on
page 42.
Company Secretary
All directors have access to, and the
services of, the Company Secretary and
may take independent professional advice
at Kingfisher’s expense.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary
to all of the above Committees.
The Company Secretary is also responsible
for facilitating the induction and professional
development of Board members as well
as ensuring good information flows within
the Board, its Committees and between
the non-executive directors and
senior management.
Corporate Governance report continued Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 41
Relations with shareholders 
Kingfisher is committed to an active
dialogue with its shareholders through
a planned programme of investor relations.
This activity is a key component of its
corporate communications programme
and is headed by the Group
Communications Director, Ian Harding.
Shareholders also receive Annual and
Interim Reports and the investors’ section
of Kingfisher’s website
(www.kingfisher.com/investors) includes
copies of all these, all trading updates,
press announcements and presentations
to shareholders.
The investor relations programme
included formal presentations of full year
and interim results, conference calls to
discuss quarterly trading statements on
three other occasions during the year,
and regular meetings between institutional
investors and senior management.
The Board believes that there are
sufficient opportunities for the necessary
dialogue with shareholders and the Board.
Apart from the consultation noted above,
these include regular meetings between
investors and management, the availability
of all the non-executive directors for
meetings if so requested by the
shareholders and a standing invitation for
the non-executive directors to attend any
of the major presentations by
management to shareholders. The Senior
Independent Director, John Nelson, is
available to shareholders if there are
concerns that cannot be resolved through
normal channels of communication.
The Board received regular reports
concerning institutional shareholder
meetings and their issues and concerns.
This process and reporting allows
the directors to develop the necessary
understanding of the views of the
shareholders and also enables the Board
to judge whether the investors have
a sufficient understanding of the
Company’s objectives.
Both institutional and private
shareholders are welcome at the AGM,
which includes a presentation on the
Group’s business by the Group Chief
Executive. The AGM also provides an
opportunity for shareholders to discuss
with executive and non-executive directors
any issues concerning the Company and
its activities.
Auditor independence
Kingfisher’s rules and authorisation
processes for the instruction of the
auditors for non-audit work; were reviewed
and updated in 2005 and details can be
found at www.kingfisher.com. The auditors
are precluded from engaging in non-audit
services that would compromise their
independence or violate any laws or
regulations affecting their appointment as
auditors. Approval of the Chairman of the
Audit Committee is required prior to
awarding contracts for non-audit services to
the external auditors in excess of a specified
amount. The external auditors report to
the Audit Committee annually on their
independence from the Company. Periodic
rotation of key partners is also required.
Each of the Group’s businesses are
consulted on the effectiveness and
independence of the Auditors annually.
In addition the Auditors provide the Audit
Committee with a schedule of each matter
on which there was an initial difference
between them and management in relation
to the accounting treatment, with the advice
(if needed) of the firm’s technical committee,
and with the final decisions on these issues.
The Audit Committee considers annually
whether the audit should go out to tender
but has taken the view that partner
rotation at both the Group and operating
business level has been sufficient to
maintain the necessary independence.
Accountability, risk management and
internal control 
Internal control
The Board considers risk assessment,
identification of mitigating actions and
internal control to be fundamental to
achieving Kingfisher’s strategic
corporate objectives.
This system of internal control is:
• The Board’s overall responsibility;
• Regularly, and at least annually, reviewed
for its effectiveness by both the Board and
the Audit Committee;
• In compliance with the Turnbull guidance
2005; and
• Supported by Kingfisher’s policies in such
areas as Code of Conduct, legal and
secretarial, finance and treasury.
However, such a system is designed
to manage rather than eliminate the risk
of failure to achieve business objectives
and can provide only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the internal
control process are summarised below:
The Board, which:
• Has approved a set of policies,
procedures and frameworks for effective
internal control, including the provision
of quality internal and external reporting
and compliance with applicable laws and
regulations, which are periodically
reviewed and updated;
• Regularly reviews and updates the Group’s
strategy and those of its operating
companies;
• Reviews and assesses Kingfisher’s key
risks at least annually; 
• Reviews performance through a
comprehensive system of reporting, based
on an annual budget with monthly business
reviews against actual results, analysis
of variances, key performance indicators
and regular forecasting;
• Has well defined policies governing
appraisal and approval of capital expenditure
and treasury operations;
• Seeks assurance that effective control
is being maintained through regular reports
from the Audit Committee and various
independent monitoring functions.
The Audit Committee which, in respect
of the Group:
• Monitors the integrity of the financial
statements and any formal announcements
relating to financial performance;
• Reviews and evaluates the internal
financial risk, and other internal controls
and their associated systems; 
• Monitors and reviews the effectiveness
of the internal audit function;
• Considers and reviews the reports from
the external auditors on the principal
reporting issues faced by the Group.
The Executive Committee which, in respect
of the Group: 
• Reviews and makes recommendations to
the Board, where appropriate, regarding:
– The strategic and business plans of
individual businesses and the strategic
choices of the Group;
– The annual budget and capital
expenditure proposals for the Group;
– Management development and senior
executive succession plans. 42 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
• Oversees and reviews the Group’s Corporate
responsibility programme and operating
companies’ individual progress; with the
Group Chief Executive reporting to the
Board at least annually on issues, progress
and recommendations for change.
• Approves or, where appropriate,
recommends to the Board any acquisitions
or disposals of companies, businesses or
significant assets;
• Reviews periodically as necessary the
communications messages to the investor
community for effectiveness and relevance.
It also ensures any issues regarding
strategy and performance that the investor
community are expressing are fully
understood, that these are communicated
appropriately to the Board and actions are
taken to address any legitimate concerns;
• Oversees the work of the Treasury
Committee and reviews and approves on
behalf of the Board any significant or unusual
treasury transactions within the limits set
out in the Treasury Policy and exercises all
powers of execution and delivery of the
Board in relation to the approval and
authorisation for signature of financing
documents within the Committee’s terms
of reference and authority limits; and
• Allots new shares in the Company to
employees following the exercise of share
options in schemes approved by the
Board and shareholders.
The business head of each operating
company/business area who:
• Maintains systems that continually identify
and evaluate significant risks affecting their
strategies and that apply to their areas
of the business;
• Reviews and monitors the effectiveness
of internal control systems through
an operating company audit committee
and reports from internal and external
audit functions;
• Has responsibility for identification and
evaluation of significant risks to their
business area, together with the design
of mitigating controls;
• Has responsibility for and ensures the
effective functioning of their operating
company audit committee;
• Self-certifies that internal control
processes are in place and that they
comply with Group policies; and
• Supported by their operating company
audit committee, reports on any control
weaknesses or breakdowns that could be
material to the Group.
The Internal Audit and Risk Management
function which:
• Works with the operating companies
to develop, improve and embed risk
management tools and processes into
their business operations;
• Oversees the operation of the individual
operating businesses’ audit committees;
• Ensures that business risks are identified,
managed and regularly reviewed at all
levels of the Group and that directors are
periodically appraised of the key risks in
accordance with the Turnbull guidance;
• Provides the Board with objective
assurance on the control environment
across the Group;
• Ensures that the operating companies have
appropriate organisation and processes
to carry out regular and effective reviews
of their internal controls;
• Monitors adherence to the Group’s key
policies and principles; and
• Provides the Group Audit Committee with
necessary assurances on the control
environment.
Whilst management at each operating
business has responsibility for the
identification and evaluation of significant
risks applicable to their business and any
mitigating actions to be taken, Group
executive management reviews, identifies
and evaluates the risks which are significant
at a Group level as well as the mitigating
actions against those risks. These are then
considered by the Board after review by
the Audit Committee. The type of risks
identified include strategic risk, external
factors (such as competition, environment
and regulation), change management
programmes, health and safety, retention
of key management and macro market
risks. The Internal Audit plans are designed
to address the controls and actions in
relation to each business’s significant
identified risks. Where appropriate, the risk
management process will include the use
of insurance.
The directors confirm they have reviewed
the effectiveness of this system of internal
control, that any necessary action has
been or is being taken to remedy any
significant failings or weaknesses identified
from the review and that it accords with the
guidance of the Turnbull Committee on
internal control.
Environmental, social and governance
(ESG)
The Executive Committee oversees
corporate responsibility including
environment, social and governance matters,
its terms of reference can be found on the
website www.kingfisher.com. The Board
recognises the importance of ESG matters
and receives information concerning any
risks that may be posed regarding such
matters from the Group Chief Executive
and the Executive Committee. The Board
formally reviews progress at least on an
annual basis.
Key ESG issues are managed through
Kingfisher’s Corporate Responsibility Policy
and Steps to Responsible Growth
management system (which is shown
on pages 18 and 19). In addition, Kingfisher
has a Code of Conduct for employees
which provides guidance on governance
issues. Non-compliance with the Code
is a disciplinary issue. 
Kingfisher is developing a Corporate
responsibility risk register to ensure
a common approach across the Group
to the way these risks are identified and
managed. Work is underway to review the
range of potential issues for the register,
their magnitude and probability of
occurrence. In addition, the register will
identify the range of mitigating controls
in place to minimise the potential impact
of the risks.
An overview of progress on Corporate
responsibility can be found on pages
18 and 19. A more detailed Corporate
responsibility report is also published,
which is available on the website
www.kingfisher.com/cr, and as a
printed summary.
By Order of the Board
Helen Jones
Company Secretary
28 March 2007
Corporate Governance report continued Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 43
This report to shareholders provides
information on the remuneration and share
interests of all Kingfisher directors, and the
criteria by which that remuneration has
been determined. It has been prepared in
accordance with Schedule 7A to the
Companies Act 1985 and the applicable
Listing Rules.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible
for the broad policy governing senior
executives’ pay and remuneration. It sets
the actual levels of all elements of the
remuneration of all executive directors of
the Company and for certain senior
operating executives. The Committee also
oversees the administration of Kingfisher’s
employee share schemes and determines
the level of fees for the Chairman of the
Board. The Committee’s terms of reference
are available at www.kingfisher.com.
The Committee aims to ensure that
senior executives (including executive
directors of the Company) are rewarded
for their contribution to Kingfisher and are
motivated to enhance returns to
shareholders. It advises the Board on the
remuneration framework and policy for
such senior executives and, once formally
endorsed by the full Board, it applies
the policy.
The Committee is chaired by John
Nelson and comprises two other
independent non-executive directors,
Michael Hepher and, since her
appointment as a director in December
2006, Janis Kong. Until her resignation
from the Board in December 2006,
Margaret Salmon was also a member
of the Committee. John Nelson,
Michael Hepher, and, until her resignation,
Margaret Salmon, have been members for
at least two years. The Chairman of the
Board and the Group Chief Executive are
invited to attend meetings of the
Committee but not when their own
arrangements are considered.
The Committee consults with
shareholders to ensure their views are
understood and taken into account in the
work of the Committee, particularly in
relation to changes in Kingfisher employee
share scheme arrangements and wider
trends in executive remuneration.
The Committee met four times during
the year. Most of the Committee’s work
over the past year has concerned the
measures and targets for the Kingfisher
Incentive Scheme (KIS) arrangements for
senior executives and executive directors,
as described in more detail later in this
report, and finalising and approving the
proposals for the Performance Share Plan
(PSP) (approved by shareholders at the
AGM in May 2006). 
Advice
During the year the Committee sought the
advice of Kingfisher’s Group Human
Resources Director, Tony Williams, and
was supported by the Company Secretary,
Helen Jones. The Committee has also
appointed the following external advisors:
• New Bridge Street Consultants LLP
(NBSC) provides advice on the ongoing
operation of employee and executive
share plans together with advice on
executive remuneration; and
• Allen & Overy LLP provides legal advice to
the Committee on contracts and for other
employment and remuneration issues in
relation to executive directors and senior
executives. Allen & Overy LLP does not
advise the Company separately on any
other legal matters.
NBSC currently also provides advice
to the Company on the technical aspects
of the operation of the shares element in
the KIS as well as the PSP, ShareSave and
Executive option schemes. Additionally,
Towers Perrin was requested by the
Company to provide advice periodically on
the market competitiveness of remuneration
for executives (and non-executive director
fee levels) in the UK and overseas.
Information subject to audit
The following sections, on pages 43 to 51,
of the Remuneration report are audited:
• ‘Components of executive directors’
remuneration – Annual bonus and long-
term incentives, including the PSP’ – the
summary of performance criteria upon
which the vesting of performance shares
are conditional; 
• ‘Executive directors’ remuneration
overview’; 
• ‘KIS Share Awards’;
• ‘Performance Share Awards’;
• ‘ShareSave Option Scheme’; 
• ‘Closed incentive plans’ – except for
compliance with guidelines on dilution limits;
• ‘Directors’ pension benefits’; and 
• ‘Non-executive directors’ remuneration
table and notes.
Remuneration policy for executive
directors
The Committee intends that executive
director remuneration, both in terms of
base salary and total remuneration, should
be competitive by reference to the
experience of the executive concerned,
the role fulfilled, internal relativities and the
markets in which the Company competes.
This is designed to promote business
success through the recruitment, retention
and motivation of the highest quality
executives. This policy is consistently
applied across the Group for the
remuneration of the executive directors
and senior executives.
The Committee undertook a full review
of the senior executives’ remuneration
structure during 2005/06. This review led
to a simplification of the Company’s
incentive structure for 2006/07 with
executives being eligible for annual bonus
awards under the KIS Cash and KIS
Shares schemes, and also separately
receiving annual awards of Performance
Shares under the new PSP. The
Committee believes that this revised
structure remains appropriate for the
forthcoming year as it is weighted towards
the achievement of stretching, individually
targeted annual bonus measures but also
aligns the interests of executives with
those of shareholders through a continued
emphasis on equity based incentives
which also provide a better ‘lock-in’ of key
executives. The Committee has been
advised by NBSC that this remuneration
structure is competitive but not excessive
when compared with relevant external
benchmarks, and the Committee is
satisfied that there is an appropriate
balance between the different elements
of pay (including the split between fixed
and variable pay).
Components of executive directors’
remuneration
Salaries and benefits
Salaries are reviewed annually in August,
taking into account criteria such as market
conditions affecting executive
remuneration, affordability, the level of
increases awarded to staff generally and
the individual’s contribution. In addition,
the Company provides a range of
additional benefits, including life and
medical insurances, membership of a
Company pension scheme, subsidised
Remuneration report 44 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
staff canteen, staff discount card, 30
working days holiday per year and a
company car or cash allowance.
With effect from 1 August 2006, Gerry
Murphy, Ian Cheshire and Duncan Tatton-
Brown were awarded base salary
increases of 3.1%, 3.5% and 10% per
annum respectively. The increase for
Duncan Tatton-Brown was to bring his
salary more into line with the mid-market
for FTSE 100 finance directors and to
reflect increased responsibilities. The
increases for Gerry Murphy and Ian
Cheshire were based on general inflation.
A similar market-driven approach was
taken with other salary increases awarded
to management, administrative staff and
store staff in the UK. Overall the increases
for staff in stores averaged 3.4%, with
increases averaging 3.0% for managers
and supervisors and 4.5% for experts and
administrative staff. Salary increases at the
Store Support Office of B&Q averaged
3%. Overall B&Q’s average increase
across all staff was 3.2%. Increases in
France averaged around 2.75%.
The current annual base salaries of the
executive directors are:
Gerry Murphy £912,000
Ian Cheshire £440,000
Duncan Tatton-Brown £440,000
Annual bonus and long-term incentives 
Annual bonuses are awarded under the KIS.
The KIS comprises the Kingfisher Annual
Cash Incentive Scheme 2003 (KIS Cash
scheme) and the Kingfisher Incentive Share
Scheme 2003 (KIS Shares scheme). Under
these arrangements, in 2007/08 senior
executives may receive a performance-
related cash bonus under the KIS Cash
scheme and a contingent share award
under the KIS Shares scheme equal to half
the value (at the time of award) of the cash
bonus. The contingent share award must
normally be held for three years before
it vests, with the shares being normally
subject to forfeiture should the executive
leave Kingfisher during the three-year
deferral period as a result of voluntary
resignation or dismissal for cause.
Contingent share awards from April 2007
will, in line with ABI best practice, receive
a dividend roll-up on vesting calculated
on the basis of a notional purchase of
shares on each relevant ex-dividend date
using that day’s closing mid-market price.
Substantial awards under the KIS
Cash scheme and the KIS Shares scheme
are only payable to executives on
achievement of the performance targets
agreed by the Committee at the beginning
of each year, based on Kingfisher’s
strategic and financial planning process
and the economic and competitive
environment in which the Company and its
principal businesses operate. 
In respect of the financial year ended
3 February 2007, the key performance
parameters for Gerry Murphy and Duncan
Tatton-Brown were:
1. Group return on invested capital
2. Group cash generation
3. Group profit after tax; and
4. Individual targets
For Ian Cheshire, 25% of his bonus
focused on Group profit after tax with 75%
being targeted in respect of B&Q UK’s
performance on:
1. Return on invested capital
2. Cash generation; and
3. Individual targets
The overall bonuses earned were moderately
below on-target levels. The financial results,
apart from the cash generation targets, did
not reach on-target levels; the individual
objectives set for the executive directors,
which principally related to specific
measures regarding the B&Q development
programme, were substantially met.
The key performance parameters for
Gerry Murphy, Ian Cheshire and Duncan-
Tatton Brown for 2007/08 are the same
as those applying for 2006/07, although
the detailed personal objectives will focus
on current issues.
Assuming target performance is fully
achieved, the cash component is valued
at 60% of base salary, with the deferred
share award being valued at 30% of base
salary for executive directors, giving
a combined value equivalent to 90% of
salary. In years when Kingfisher achieves
performance significantly in excess of
target this combined value can increase
to 150% (100% of salary in cash and 50%
of salary in deferred shares). The Committee
has discretion to adjust awards (up or down)
where it concludes that a particular
individual’s contribution warrants a different
level of award (but subject to the maximum
combined level of 150% of base salary). 
Awards under the KIS result in up to
approximately 46% of executive directors’
targeted annual remuneration (excluding
pensions) being performance-related, and
when combined with the PSP described
below, up to 60%, an approach the
Committee believes is appropriate for
Kingfisher as a dynamic international retailer.
If an executive does not work for
Kingfisher throughout the whole of a
financial year, the Committee has the
discretion to determine the appropriate
level of payment under the KIS Cash
scheme for that year. Where Kingfisher
terminates an executive’s contract except
for cause, or on retirement, then, reflecting
the fact there will be no entitlement to
awards under the KIS Shares scheme, the
executive may receive a cash replacement
of the equivalent value of the KIS Shares
scheme award, pro rata for the period of
the financial year he was employed, subject
to the discretion of the Committee to decide
the appropriate level of such bonus.
The PSP
The PSP is a stand alone plan under
which provisional awards of Performance
Shares are granted each year to selected
senior executives. Performance Shares will
be provisionally awarded at six-monthly
intervals following the publication of the
annual and half yearly results. The first
such award was made on 28 June 2006
following the AGM approval in May, and
the second on 24 October 2006. In future
years, awards would normally be made in
March/April and September/October. 
Performance Shares will normally vest
three years from the award date, provided
that the executive is still employed by the
Group and Kingfisher’s Total Shareholder
Return (TSR) performance is above median
for the FTSE 100 during the three-year
performance period. No vesting will occur
at or below median performance. At above
median performance, 25% of these shares
will vest, increasing on a straight line basis to
100% at above upper quartile performance.
In addition, the Committee must also be
satisfied that the TSR performance is
reflective of underlying Company
performance for such awards to vest.
TSR was selected as the most appropriate
measure as it is robust, aligns executives’
interests with those of shareholders and is
generally favoured by the Company’s major
Remuneration report continued Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 45
shareholders. The FTSE 100 was chosen
as the comparator group because there is
a general lack of directly quoted home
improvement businesses against which to
compare the Company’s TSR specifically
and because major shareholders, when
consulted previously, indicated their
preference for the chosen comparator
group. NBSC independently carries out the
relevant TSR calculations for the Committee.
At the moment, the maximum annual
Performance Shares vesting for above
upper quartile performance under the plan
would be worth, at grant, 125% of a
participant’s salary (subject to the discretion
of the Committee to award a different level
within the normal plan limit of 200%,
although there is no current intention to
exceed 125%) reducing to 31.25% vesting
for just above median performance.
Performance Shares also receive a dividend
roll-up calculated on the basis of a notional
purchase of shares on each relevant ex-
dividend date using that day’s closing mid-
market price.
Other long-term incentive plans
Apart from the ShareSave Option Scheme,
all other option and incentive arrangements
have been discontinued, but awards made
under these schemes in 2006/07 and in
previous years will vest over time, in
accordance with the rules governing the
various plans. The details are shown in the
section entitled Closed incentive plans on
pages 48 and 49.
Share Ownership Guidelines
The Committee has established formal
Share Ownership Guidelines which prohibit
executive directors selling shares obtained
through the KIS Shares scheme and long-
term incentive plans including the PSP
(except to meet tax obligations) until they
hold shares costing or worth at least one
times base salary (two times for the Group
Chief Executive). The Committee believes
that this will provide a longer-term retention
mechanism and mean that, over time,
executives will have a significant personal
interest in Kingfisher shares. The Committee
believes these arrangements align
executives’ and shareholders’ interests
effectively and encourage a long-term view
of performance. 
Executive directors’ service contracts
All executive directors and UK senior
executives have service contracts terminable
by no more than 12 months’ notice by
either side, with no different arrangements
applying in the event of termination
following a change of control. For senior
executives not employed from the UK, the
same principles apply, but there are local
laws and regulations which mean it is
possible that, subject to length of service
and reasons for termination, more than
12 months’ notice has to be given. Details
of the executive directors’ contracts are
summarised below.
The contracts for Gerry Murphy,
Ian Cheshire and Duncan Tatton-Brown
provide that termination payments would
be paid on a phased basis at a monthly
rate of 15% of annual salary for a maximum
of 12 months. Lower amounts are payable
if the director commences lower paid
employment during the 12 month period,
and payments cease immediately when
employment providing the same or higher
value remuneration is started.
To reflect the arrangements entered
into on his appointment, Gerry Murphy
would, in addition, continue to receive for
the same period a monthly pension
contribution or Scheme Cap supplement
at a reduced rate of 30% of his monthly
salary above the Scheme Cap (see
Pension provision opposite). 
Executive Date of last Notice
director contract period
(months)
Gerry Murphy 16/03/2004 12
Ian Cheshire 01/03/2004 12
Duncan Tatton-Brown 01/02/2004 12 
All executive directors’ contracts terminate
automatically upon reaching normal
retirement age, currently 60, although this
is under review following the application
of the age discrimination legislation in
October 2006. 
Kingfisher allows each executive director
(and senior executives), other than Gerry
Murphy, to accept and hold one non-
executive role outside the Group. Gerry
Murphy’s contract allows him to take two
non-executive roles with the consent of
the Chairman, but, in accordance with the
Combined Code requirements, only one
FTSE 100 directorship. To date he has
only held one non-executive appointment
at any one time. All appointments are
subject to conflict checks.
The following fees for acting as non-
executive directors of companies not part
of the Kingfisher Group were earned and
retained by the individual during 2006/07:
Gerry Murphy £60,667
Ian Cheshire £42,958
Duncan Tatton-Brown £45,000
Pension provision 
Gerry Murphy, Ian Cheshire and Duncan
Tatton-Brown are members of the main
defined benefit funded arrangement, the
Kingfisher Pension Scheme, which was
closed to new employees of the Group
on 1 April 2004, and which provides
a pension on retirement at age 60 of
1/60th of base salary up to the Earnings
Cap for each year of pensionable service.
In the event of death during employment,
dependants would receive a pension and
a lump sum from the scheme (relating to
the employee’s contributions during the
period of membership) and life insurance
equal to four times the amount of base
salary up to the Earnings Cap. On leaving
the employment of the Group before
retirement, members would become
entitled to a deferred pension.
All three executive directors accrue
benefits in the Kingfisher Pension Scheme
on earnings up to the limit of the Earnings
Cap. Following the removal of the Earnings
Cap by HMRC in April 2006, the Company
introduced a Scheme Cap in line with the
previous Earnings Cap. As such, neither
pension benefits, nor the total contribution
percentages of the directors described
below, have been increased as a result
of the Finance Act 2004.
In addition to the Scheme benefits,
Gerry Murphy, pursuant to his service
agreement, receives a pension supplement
of 40% of his earnings above the newly
introduced Scheme Cap. The February
and March 2006 supplements were paid
into a FURBS. Ian Cheshire and Duncan
Tatton-Brown receive supplements of 10%
of their earnings above the Scheme Cap.
The salary supplements for 2006/07 are
disclosed in the executive directors’
remuneration table on page 46. 46 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Executive directors’ remuneration overview 
Total remuneration
Base Total Cash
£000 salary Benefits 
1
Bonus 
2
2007 2006
Gerry Murphy 
3
898.5 323.9 448.1 1,670.5 1,096.8
Ian Cheshire 
3
432.5 56.0 276.6 765.1 590.6
Duncan Tatton-Brown 420.0 54.8 221.5 696.3 446.1
Total 1,751.0 434.7 946.2 3,131.9 2,133.5
1
Total benefits include cash payments representing
Scheme Cap Supplements of £285,502 for Gerry
Murphy, £32,432 for Ian Cheshire and £31,184 for
Duncan Tatton-Brown; non-cash benefits
comprised medical, life and permanent health
insurances; Ian Cheshire received a cash allowance
in lieu of a company car, plus the value of a
company car for part of the year. 
2
For the contingent shares award under the KIS
Shares scheme in relation to the financial year
ended 3 February 2007, see the table below, and
for the Multiplier Awards see the table under
Closed incentive plans on page 49. 
3
Details of the exercise of the Investment share
award made to Gerry Murphy as part of his
recruitment arrangements, and the exercise of the
ShareSave option by Ian Cheshire are included in
the relevant tables on pages 49 and 47
respectively.
KIS Share Awards
Once the contingent share award is made in respect of the bonus earned, the only qualifying condition for the award normally to vest
is to be in the employment of the Company at the vesting date. In respect of bonuses paid in 2004, 2005 and 2006, an additional
Multiplier Award of shares was potentially receivable by certain executive directors – details of these are shown under Closed incentive
plans on page 49. Following the introduction of the PSP , no further Multiplier Awards will be granted.
Number of Market 
Number of Contingent price per Number of 
Contingent Shares Price share on Contingent
Shares at awarded in per date of Shares at Vesting Lapse
Name start of year year share award end of year Date 
1
Date
Gerry Murphy 221,448 – 288.50p 286.00p 221,448 28/04/2007 28/10/2007
116,822 – 286.92p 285.50p 116,822 6/04/2008 6/10/2008
– 23,844
2
233.83p 231.25p 23,844 10/04/2009 10/10/2009
Total 338,270 23,844 362,114
Ian Cheshire 86,088 – 288.50p 286.00p 86,088 28/04/2007 28/10/2007
39,685 – 286.92p 285.50p 39,685 6/04/2008 6/10/2008
– 60,471 
2
233.83p 231.25p 60,471 10/04/2009 10/10/2009
Total 125,773 60,471 186,244
Duncan Tatton-Brown 44,412 – 288.50p 286.00p 44,412 28/04/2007 28/10/2007
44,913 – 286.92p 285.50p 44,913 6/04/2008 6/10/2008
– 10,777 
2
233.83p 231.25p 10,777 10/04/2009 10/10/2009
Total 89,325 10,777 100,102
Totals 553,368 95,092 648,460
1
As the first vesting date for any of the awards
is 28 April 2007 and no executive director has left
the Company none of the awards vested or lapsed
during the year. 
2
As disclosed in last year's Remuneration report
these awards under the KIS Shares scheme were
made on 10 April 2006, in respect of the financial
year ended 28 January 2006. These awards are
structured as nominal cost options (on payment in
aggregate of a maximum of £1). They will normally
vest in April 2009 and will be exercisable within the
period of six months starting from the vesting date. 
Awards of contingent shares, in respect of the financial
year ended 3 February 2007, are due to be made on
11 April 2007, vesting in April 2010, to Gerry Murphy,
Ian Cheshire and Duncan Tatton-Brown under the
KIS Shares scheme to the value of £224,048,
£138,306 and £110,733, respectively, at the average
mid-market price over the three dealing days, 4, 5,
and 10 April 2007. As the awards will be made after
publication of the accounts for the financial year
ended 3 February 2007, the detail will be disclosed
fully in next year’s Annual Report.
Remuneration report continued Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 47
Performance Share Awards
Performance Shares will normally vest subject to the Company’s TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 over
a fixed three-year performance period. Further details of the performance condition are outlined on page 44.
Number of 
Number of Performance Number of 
PerformanceShares DividendPerformance 
Shares at awarded Date of Price per Roll-up Shares at Vesting Lapse 
Name start of year in year Grant share shares 
1
end of year Date Date
Gerry Murphy – 245,016 28/06/2006 225.75p 3,897 248,913 28/06/2009 28/12/2009
– 223,091 24/10/2006 255.50p – 223,091 24/10/2009 24/04/2010
Total – 468,107 3,897 472,004
Ian Cheshire – 117,663 28/06/2006 225.75p 1,871 119,534 28/06/2009 28/12/2009
– 107,632 24/10/2006 255.50p – 107,632 24/10/2009 24/04/2010
Total – 225,295 1,871 227,166
Duncan Tatton-Brown – 110,741 28/06/2006 225.75p 1,761 112,502 28/06/2009 28/12/2009
– 107,632 24/10/2006 255.50p – 107,632 24/10/2009 24/04/2010
Total – 218,373 1,761 220,134
Totals – 911,775 7,529 919,304
1
The price used to calculate the Dividend 
Roll-up shares was 242.00p, being the market 
price on 20 September 2006. 
ShareSave Option Scheme
A UK ShareSave Option Scheme is open to all eligible employees, including executive directors. As is the case with all savings-related
share option schemes open to all employees, there are no performance criteria.
Number of Options
Granted Exercised Lapsed Option Date from
At start during during during At end price which Lapse
Name of year year year 
1
year of year (pence) exercisable Date
Gerry Murphy 5,324––– 5,324 175.60 01/12/2008 01/06/2009
Ian Cheshire 6,019 – 6,019 – – 157.00 01/12/2005 01/06/2006
4,805 – – 4,805 196.67 01/12/2009 01/06/2010
Duncan Tatton-Brown 5,324––– 5,324 175.60 01/12/2008 01/06/2009
Totals 16,667 4,805 6,019 – 15,453
1
The market price of the shares on 6 April 2006 
when the options were exercised was 234.75p
and the gain was £4,680. 48 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Closed incentive plans
There are two further long-term incentive plans, the Executive Share Option Scheme and the Kingfisher Incentive Plan (KIP), as well as
Multiplier Awards made in previous years under the KIS Shares scheme and the recruitment awards granted to Gerry Murphy, all of which
are now closed and under which no further awards will be made. Existing awards under these arrangements may still become
exercisable or vest at the end of their respective deferral periods. The full details of each can be found in previous Annual Reports.
The outstanding awards are as follows: 
Executive Share Options
The last grants under the Executive Share Option Scheme were made on 17 April 2003. Other than those granted to Gerry Murphy, the
options vest from three to 10 years of the grant date subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition which generally requires the
growth in the Company’s Earnings Per Share (EPS) over a three-year period to have exceeded that of the Retail Price Index (RPI) plus
6%. The criteria were set and approved by shareholders when the scheme was established in 1993 and were judged at the time to be
appropriate criteria. 
Number of Options
Granted Exercised Lapsed Option Date from
At start during during during At end price which Lapse 
Name of year year year year of year (pence) exercisable Date
Gerry Murphy
1
12,612 12,612 237.85 17/04/2006 17/04/2007
1,332,773 1,332,773 237.85 17/04/2006 17/04/2007
Total 1,345,385––– 1,345,385
Ian Cheshire 45,489 45,489 395.69 26/10/2004 26/10/2008
30,520 30,520 589.76 01/04/2004 01/04/2009
74,346 74,346 393.43 17/04/2004 17/04/2010
69,991 69,991 357.18 25/09/2004 25/09/2010
126,231 126,231 209.93 26/09/2004 26/09/2011
91,350
2
91,350 290.08 09/04/2005 09/04/2012
164,144 164,144 194.95 08/10/2005 08/10/2012
134,538 134,538 237.85 17/04/2006
3
17/04/2013
Total 736,609––– 736,609
Duncan Tatton-Brown 72,272 72,272 209.93 26/09/2004 26/09/2011
26,151 26,151 290.08 09/04/2005 09/04/2012
43,600 43,600 194.95 08/10/2005 08/10/2012
35,736 35,736 237.85 17/04/2006
3
17/04/2013
Total 177,759––– 177,759
1
The options granted to Gerry Murphy on 17 April
2003 were part of the terms of his recruitment and
have the same performance criteria except that
he has agreed that they can only be tested on
the third anniversary of grant or, if not satisfied,
on the fourth anniversary of grant (from a fixed
base). As the EPS condition has not been met the
options will lapse on 17 April 2007. 
KIP
The last awards under the KIP were made in March 2003. Awards vested at the end of three years subject to the individual remaining in
employment during the deferral period.
Date and 
market price 
Awarded Vested Lapsed Balance of shares
Type of At start during during during remaining when award Vesting 
Name award of year year year
1
year to vest made Date 
Duncan Tatton-Brown Matching 26,571 – 26,571 – – March 2003 March 2006
Shares for 238.50p
deferred 
cash bonus
1
Vested on 21 March 2006 when the market 
price was 248.00p, giving a pre-tax value on 
vesting of £65,896.
2
Phantom Options of 91,350 were granted to
Ian Cheshire in addition to these options at the
same price, with the same performance conditions
and over the same maturity periods. On exercise,
only the cash equivalent to any gain will be paid
and disclosed as remuneration at that time.
3
The performance conditions for all options have
been met with the exception of the final grant made
on 17 April 2003. 
In the period 29 January 2006 to 3 February 2007, the
highest and lowest market price for Kingfisher shares
was 273.00p and 218.75p respectively. The market
price at close of business on 2 February 2007 was
252.50p.
Remuneration report continued Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 49
Multiplier Awards relating to prior year KIS Share Awards
Bonuses paid under the KIS Shares scheme in April 2004 (in respect of Gerry Murphy only as he did not receive the normal grant of
options in April 2003), 2005 and 2006 were matched at a ratio of 0.4:1 by a conditional Multiplier Award of shares. Vesting of these
awards is subject to the TSR performance of the Company against the constituents of the FTSE 100 over the three-year period following
the year for which the bonus was earned. No vesting will occur at or below median performance. At above median performance, 25% of
these shares vest, increasing on a straight line basis to 100% at above upper quartile performance. In addition, the Committee must also
be satisfied that the TSR performance is reflective of underlying Company performance for such awards to vest.
Market 
Multiplier Multiplier price per Multiplier 
Awards Awards Price share on Awards 
at start granted per date of at end Vesting Lapse
Name of year in year
1
share award of year Date
2
Date
Gerry Murphy 88,579 – 288.50p 286.00p 88,579 28/04/2007 28/04/2007
46,728 – 286.92p 285.50p 46,728 6/04/2008 6/10/2008
– 9,537 233.83p 231.25p 9,537 10/04/2009 10/10/2009
Total 135,307 9,537 144,844
Ian Cheshire 15,874 – 286.92p 285.50p 15,874 6/04/2008 6/10/2008
– 24,188 233.83p 231.25p 24,188 10/04/2009 10/10/2009
Total 15,874 24,188 40,062
Duncan Tatton-Brown 17,965 – 286.92p 285.50p 17,965 6/04/2008 6/10/2008
– 4,310 233.83p 231.25p 4,310 10/04/2009 10/10/2009
Total 17,965 4,310 22,275
Totals 169,146 38,035 207,181
1
As disclosed in last year's Remuneration report
these awards under the KIS Shares scheme were
made on 10 April 2006, in respect of the financial
year ended 28 January 2006. These awards are
structured as nominal cost options (on payment in
aggregate of a maximum of £1). They will normally
vest in April 2009 and will be exercisable within the
period of six months starting from the vesting date.
1
In accordance with the terms of his appointment the
value of the award was £360,000 as of the date
of his appointment, reflecting the value of benefits
foregone on leaving his previous employer to join
the Group (there were no performance conditions).
The number of shares awarded was based on
the Company’s share price of 192.50p on that date
(3 February 2003). Awards were granted on
17 April 2003 when the share price was 239.17p
(pre the seven for eight share consolidation in
July 2003). The award vested on 1 February 2006
and Gerry Murphy exercised his rights over the
187,013 shares on 6 April 2006 when the market
price was 234.75p, giving a pre-tax value on
vesting of £439,013.
2
No Matching Shares vest for below median
performance, with maximum vesting for upper
quartile TSR performance over the three-year
performance period. In respect of the 561,039
share match to the Investment Shares awarded
on appointment in 2003, TSR performance for the
three-year period ended 28 January 2006 was
calculated and, as median performance was not
reached, no Matching Shares vested and the
award lapsed.
3
If Gerry Murphy’s employment terminates before any
vesting date by reason of death, injury, ill health,
early termination by Kingfisher (other than for cause)
or resignation for “good reason” (as defined in his
service contract), then subject to the discretion of 
the Committee in certain limited circumstances, such
of the Matching Shares as can be treated as vested
will vest, taking into account TSR performance up
to the date of cessation of his employment, but
reduced on a time pro-rated basis.
4
As the awards are structured as nominal cost
options (on payment in aggregate of a maximum
of £1) they can be exercised within a six month
period starting from the vesting date.
No variations to the terms and conditions of the
awards were made during the year.
Share awards to Gerry Murphy – agreed in 2002 as part of his recruitment arrangements
These share-based awards were agreed as part of the terms of Gerry Murphy’s recruitment as Group Chief Executive and were fully
disclosed in 2003/04.
Market price 
Awarded Vested Lapsed per share 
At start during during during when award Qualifying Vesting At end
Type of award of year year year year made conditions Date
3,4
of year
Investment Shares 187,013
1
– 187,013
1
– 239.17p Part of 1/02/2006 –
recruitment
Potential Matching Shares Between nil and: TSR of 
561,039
2
– – 561,039
2
239.17p median to 1/02/2006 –
285,960
3
– – –286.00p upper 27/04/2007 285,960
301,476
3
– – – 286.92p quartile 6/04/2008 301,476
compared to
FTSE 100
2
As the first vesting date for any of the awards is
28 April 2007 and no executive director has left the
Company none of the awards vested or lapsed
during the year. Since the end of the financial year
ended 3 February 2007 the TSR performance has
been calculated in respect of the potential Multiplier
Award vesting in April 2007 and median
performance was not achieved; accordingly, this
Multiplier Award will not vest and will lapse. 50 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Dilution limits
Kingfisher share plans comply with recommended guidelines on dilution limits and the Company has always operated within these limits.
Assuming none of the extant options lapse and will be exercised, and having included all exercised options the Company has utilised 3%
of the 10% in 10 years and 2% of the 5% in 10 years in accordance with the Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidance on dilution limits.
Directors’ pension benefits 
The following table shows details required under both Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules as they apply to
Kingfisher for the year ended 3 February 2007. 
In respect of the Companies Act, the details shown represent:
• accrued pension benefits at the relevant dates (payable from age 60);
• the increase in the amount of accrued pension during this year;
• the transfer value amounts as at 28 January 2006 and 3 February 2007;
• the increase in transfer value between those dates, net of member contributions paid.
Schedule 7A Companies Act 1985 Additional Listing Rules
Accrued pension Transfer value Pension cost
Increase in Increase in
transfer accrued
Increase in value pension
accrued 20072006£000 £000 pa
Years of pension £000 £000 (net of director’s 2007 2006 (net of inflation/ 2007 2006
Name Age Service £000 pa pa pa 
1
contributions) £000 £000 
1
revaluation) £000 £000
Gerry Murphy 51 4 2 13 11 52 182 123 2 17 54
Ian Cheshire 47 8 3 18 15 54 206 145 2 14 8
Duncan Tatton-Brown 42 6 2 19 17 42 166 116 2 8 37
1
Accrued pensions and transfer values include
employer contributions (by way of bonus surrender)
made in March 2005 of £38,869 for Gerry Murphy
and of £30,000 for Duncan Tatton-Brown. There
were no bonus surrenders by any of the directors
in 2006.
Remuneration policy for
non-executive directors 
The Board determines the fees paid to
non-executive directors under a policy
which seeks to recognise the time
commitment, responsibility and technical
skills required to make a valuable
contribution to an effective Board. During
2006 a review of these fees against the
market was undertaken for the first time
since February 2004. The basic non-
executive director’s fee was increased to
£50,000 per annum with effect from
1 August 2006. For the year ended
3 February 2007 non-executive directors
were paid £46,000 for their services as
members of the Board. In addition the
review also addressed the level of additional
fees for membership and chairing of
committees. Whilst it was decided not
to pay additional amounts for membership
of committees, the fee paid for chairing
the Audit Committee was increased, from
£10,000 to £15,000, and the fee paid for
chairing the Remuneration Committee was
increased, from £8,000 to £10,000, each
per annum with effect from 1 August 2006
and both to reflect the level of work
involved in the role. The fee for the Senior
Independent Director was not increased
and remains at £13,000 per annum.
Daniel Bernard was appointed Deputy
Chairman at the AGM in May 2006. In this
role he receives a fee of €200,000
(£135,900) per annum, of which £50,000
is the non-executive director fee and the
balance (£85,900) is in respect of his role
as Deputy Chairman and reflects his
considerable international retailing
experience. John Nelson will retire as
Deputy Chairman at the AGM in 2007,
but will continue as the Senior
Independent Director and Chair of the
Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman’s fees are set by
reference to his time commitment and
relevant benchmark data. Peter Jackson
was remunerated as a non-executive
director until he assumed the role of
Chairman at the end of the AGM in May
2006. As Chairman he receives a fee of
£275,000 per annum.
Remuneration report continued Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 51
Non-executive remuneration
Total remuneration
1
2007 2006 
Non-executive director £000 £000
Francis Mackay 
2
78.8 250.0
Peter Jackson 
3
202.4 3.5
Daniel Bernard 
4
90.0 –
John Nelson 68.0 63.0
Phil Bentley 58.5 52.0
Michael Hepher 46.0 42.0
Hartmut Krämer 46.0 42.0
Margaret Salmon 
5
38.9 44.8
Janis Kong 
6
7.3 –
Total 635.9 497.3
Non-executive directors have letters of
engagement instead of service contracts.
The Chairman’s letter of engagement
allows for six months’ notice up to the age
of 65 when the appointment ends without
Shareholder Return
The Company’s TSR (share price growth
plus dividends paid) for the five years to
3 February 2007 is shown in the graph
below, which plots the value of £100
invested in Kingfisher over the last
five financial years, assuming shares
awarded in Kesa Electricals PLC, when
demerged, were sold and the proceeds
re-invested in Kingfisher shares. The
other line on the graph shows the
performance of the FTSE 100 Index
over the same period.
The Company chose the FTSE 100
Index as an appropriate comparator for
this graph because the Company has
been a constituent of that index throughout
the period and its constituents are used
as the comparator group for the PSP.
By order of the Board
John Nelson
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
28 March 2007
1
Non-executive directors are only paid fees.
2
Until his retirement in May 2006
3
At a rate of £42,000 per annum until 24 May 2006
and £275,000 for the rest of the year. In addition he
received a benefit of £315 for office support costs
reimbursed by the Company
4
From his appointment on 24 May 2006
5
Until her resignation on 8 December 2006
6
From her appointment on 8 December 2006
the need for notice. The terms will be
reviewed to reflect any necessary changes
resulting from the age discrimination
legislation of October 2006. Other non-
executive directors are appointed for an
initial period of three years. Their
appointment can be terminated without
compensation at any time at the discretion
of the Company. 
Date of last letter Unexpired term Total Length of Service
Peter Jackson 19/12/2005 21 months 1 year and 3 months
Daniel Bernard 19/04/2006 26 months 10 months
John Nelson 16/03/2005 9 months 5 years and 3 months
Phil Bentley 10/02/2006 18 months 4 years and 6 months
Michael Hepher 19/03/2007 29 months 9 years and 7 months
Hartmut Krämer 10/02/2006 19 months 4 years and 5 months
Janis Kong 17/10/2006 32 months 4 months
0
40
80
120
160
Value (£)
01-02
year end
02-03
year end
03-04
year end
04-05
year end
05-06
year end
06-07
year end
Kingfisher
FTSE 100 Index 52 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Audit Committee report
Nomination Committee report
The Audit Committee consists of four
independent non-executive directors. It is
chaired by Phil Bentley, who is a qualified
accountant and was, until his recent
promotion to become Managing Director
of British Gas, the Group Finance Director
of Centrica plc and as such is considered
to be suitably qualified to be the Audit
Committee Chairman. He, John Nelson
and Michael Hepher served for the whole
year. Margaret Salmon resigned from the
Committee on 8 December 2006 on her
retirement as a non-executive director.
Daniel Bernard joined the Committee
on 8 December 2006.
At the invitation of the Committee,
the Chairman of the Board and the Group
Chief Executive regularly attended meetings,
as did the Group Finance Director, the
Head of Internal Audit and the external
auditors. There were also regular private
meetings with the external and internal
auditors at which management was
not present.
The Nomination Committee comprises the
Chairman, all the non-executive directors
and the Group Chief Executive. It is chaired
by Peter Jackson. Its terms of reference
are available at www.kingfisher.com.
The Committee reviews annually the
succession plans for the Board and the
senior executives and monitors agreed
actions. The succession plan for executive
directors is considered by the full Board
so that the necessary input of the serving
executive directors can be given. Suitably
qualified external search consultants assist
in the search process for all new Board
appointees and were used in the search
for the appointments during the year
of Daniel Bernard (Deputy Chairman) and
Janis Kong. The Nomination Committee
agreed a skills and role specification for
each appointment having reviewed the
existing skills of the Board. 
In making the recommendation for the
two new appointments the Committee felt
the experience of the appointees was
additive and complementary to those of the
existing Board members.
The Committee keeps the composition
of the Board under review to monitor
the continuing independence of the 
non-executive directors, to identify any
gaps in skills or experience so that
appropriate training can be arranged,
and to inform the succession plan for
future Board appointments.
As a result of this work, the Committee
agrees for recommendation to the Board
plans and processes for ensuring continuity
of experience as well as compliance with
the requirement that at least half the Board
(excluding the Chairman) is comprised
of independent non-executive directors.
The Committee met three times during
the year. Two meetings were held to
consider the two new non-executive
directors. One meeting was held to consider
management performance, development
and succession plans.
Peter Jackson
Chairman, Nomination Committee
28 March 2007
The Committee provides an independent
overview of the effectiveness of the Group’s
internal control systems and financial
reporting processes. Its terms of reference
were reviewed and updated during the year
and are available at www.kingfisher.com. The
principal responsibilities include monitoring
the integrity of the financial statements,
including a review of the significant financial
reporting judgements contained in them,
and overseeing the work of both the internal
and the external auditors.
In 2006/07 there were four Committee
meetings, with four planned for 2007/08.
Should the need arise, ad-hoc meetings
are held. A forward agenda covering the
whole year was used to ensure that the
Committee’s terms of reference were fully
addressed.
As part of the Board effectiveness
evaluation, the Audit Committee was
independently reviewed by an external
consultant. During the process, which was
conducted during a period of change of
membership, no significant issues or
concerns were highlighted. The Committee
also undertook a form of self assessment,
to underpin the external review. Any issues
or actions required as a result of the findings
from either process will be discussed at
one of the four scheduled Committee
meetings across the year.
During the year and as part of its normal
programme, the Committee has considered
and reviewed a number of matters, some
of which were:
• Progress on Audit Plans across the
businesses;
• Risks and controls in certain overseas
subsidiaries; and
• Group minimum control standards,
including IT.
Phil Bentley
Chairman, Audit Committee
28 March 2007 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 53
Consolidated income statement
For the financial year ended 3 February 2007
2007 2006
Before Exceptional Total Before Exceptional Total
exceptional items exceptional items
£ millions Notes items (note 5) items (note 5)
Continuing operations:
Revenue 4 8,675.9 – 8,675.9 8,010.1 – 8,010.1
Cost of sales (5,623.7) – (5,623.7) (5,165.1) (7.9) (5,173.0)
Gross profit 3,052.2 – 3,052.2 2,845.0 (7.9) 2,837.1
Selling and distribution expenses (2,207.3) – (2,207.3) (2,005.0) (181.0) (2,186.0)
Administrative expenses (433.7) – (433.7) (390.7) (26.4) (417.1)
Other income 23.7 49.5 73.2 24.2 18.9 43.1
Other expenses ––– – (19.0) (19.0)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 16.9 – 16.9 11.4 – 11.4
Operating profit 451.8 49.5 501.3 484.9 (215.4) 269.5
Analysed as:
Retail profit before central costs 503.7 49.5 553.2 533.1 (219.1) 314.0
Central costs (39.1) – (39.1) (37.8) 3.7 (34.1)
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (0.3) – (0.3) (0.1) – (0.1)
Share of interest and taxation of joint ventures and associates (12.5) – (12.5) (10.3) – (10.3)
Total finance costs (75.6) – (75.6) (51.6) – (51.6)
Total finance income 24.8 – 24.8 13.9 – 13.9
Net finance costs 6 (50.8) – (50.8) (37.7) – (37.7)
Profit before taxation 7 401.0 49.5 450.5 447.2 (215.4) 231.8
Income tax expense 9 (119.4) 7.3 (112.1) (161.6) 68.8 (92.8)
Profit for the year 281.6 56.8 338.4 285.6 (146.6) 139.0
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent 336.8 139.5
Minority interests 1.6 (0.5)
338.4 139.0
Earnings per share (pence) 11
Basic 14.4p 6.0p
Diluted 14.4p 6.0p
Adjusted (basic) 11.9p 12.3p
The proposed final dividend for the financial year ended 3 February 2007, subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting, amounts to £161.8m. 54 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
For the financial year ended 3 February 2007
£ millions Notes 2007 2006
Actuarial gains/(losses) on post employment benefits 31 95.3 (45.6)
Currency translation differences 31 (70.9) 28.4
Cash flow hedges
Fair value (losses)/gains 31 (9.1) 7.5
Losses transferred to inventories 31 3.1 0.5
Tax on items recognised directly in equity 31 (30.1) 20.1
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity (11.7) 10.9
Profit for the year 338.4 139.0
Total recognised income for the year 326.7 149.9
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent 325.1 149.4
Minority interests 1.6 0.5
326.7 149.9 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 55
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 3 February 2007
£ millions Notes 2007 2006
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 2,551.5 2,558.8
Intangible assets 13 89.5 101.7
Property, plant and equipment 14 3,210.5 3,265.0
Investment property 15 29.4 15.3
Investments accounted for using equity method 17 184.9 185.0
Deferred tax assets 27 30.2 –
Other receivables 19 46.6 51.7
6,142.6 6,177.5
Current assets
Inventories 18 1,531.0 1,355.3
Trade and other receivables 19 505.4 570.6
Current tax assets 14.6 20.7
Available for sale financial assets 20 28.4 –
Cash and cash equivalents 21 394.5 234.1
2,473.9 2,180.7
Total assets 8,616.5 8,358.2
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 22 (241.0) (346.8)
Trade and other payables 24 (1,958.3) (1,750.8)
Provisions 29 (56.3) (46.6)
Current tax liabilities (86.9) (77.0)
(2,342.5) (2,221.2)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 131.4 (40.5)
Total assets less current liabilities 6,274.0 6,137.0
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 22 (1,431.7) (1,255.5)
Other payables 24 (50.8) (5.7)
Provisions 29 (53.2) (111.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 27 (262.7) (204.4)
Post employment benefits 28 (54.6) (239.6)
(1,853.0) (1,816.6)
Total liabilities (4,195.5) (4,037.8)
Net assets 4,421.0 4,320.4
Equity
Share capital 30 370.7 369.8
Share premium 30 2,185.2 2,175.3
Treasury shares 30 (81.3) (95.1)
Reserves 31 1,939.9 1,861.0
Minority interests 6.5 9.4
Total equity 4,421.0 4,320.4
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 March 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
Gerry Murphy Duncan Tatton-Brown
Director Director 56 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the financial year ended 3 February 2007
£ millions Notes 2007 2006
Net cash flows from operating activities 33 559.4 304.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of subsidiary and business undertakings, net of cash acquired 35 (2.2) (161.0)
Purchase of associates and joint ventures – (2.2)
Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment and investment property (438.6) (435.3)
Payments to acquire intangible assets (28.3) (71.7)
Receipts from sale of property, plant and equipment and investment property 251.0 111.2
Receipts from sale of intangible assets 0.1 0.4
Receipts from sale of available for sale financial assets 0.4 3.6
Increase in available for sale financial assets (29.3) –
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 5.1 4.9
Net cash used in investing activities (241.8) (550.1)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (70.3) (39.3)
Interest element of finance lease rental payments (5.8) (6.6)
Interest received 18.5 10.9
Proceeds from issue of share capital 10.8 9.7
Capital injections from minority interests 1.0 1.7
Receipts from the sale of own shares 7.1 2.6
Issue of Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 252.4 373.5
(Decrease)/increase in other loans (133.3) 150.5
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (11.8) (7.8)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders of the parent (248.4) (247.4)
Dividends paid to minority interests (2.1) –
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (181.9) 247.8
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 34 135.7 1.8
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 113.7 105.9
Exchange differences (4.6) 6.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 21 244.8 113.7
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are included net of bank overdrafts repayable on demand.
These bank overdrafts are excluded from cash and cash equivalents disclosed on the balance sheet.  Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 57
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1 General information
Kingfisher plc (the Company) and its
subsidiaries (together the Group) retail home
improvement products through a network of
retail sites, located mainly in the United
Kingdom, Europe and Asia. 
Kingfisher plc is a Company incorporated in
the United Kingdom. The nature of the Group’s
operations and its principal activities are set out
in the Operating review and the Financial review
on pages 20 to 33.
The address of its registered office is
3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London 
W2 6PX.
The Company has a primary listing on the
London Stock Exchange and a secondary listing
on the Paris Bourse.
These consolidated financial statements
have been approved for issue by the Board of
Directors on 28 March 2007.
2 Significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the
preparation of these consolidated financial
statements are set out below. These policies
have been consistently applied to all the years
presented, unless otherwise stated.
a. Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the
Company and its subsidiaries are made up to
the nearest Saturday to 31 January each year,
except as disclosed in note 4 of the Company’s
separate financial statements. The current
financial year is the 53 weeks ended 
3 February 2007. The comparative financial year
is the 52 weeks ended 28 January 2006. 
The consolidated financial statements have
been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed
International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS), IFRIC interpretations and those parts of
the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies
reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial
statements have been prepared under the
historical cost convention, as modified by the
revaluation of certain financial instruments.
A summary of the more important Group
accounting policies is set out below. 
The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain
critical accounting estimates. It also requires
management to exercise its judgement in the
process of applying the Group’s accounting
policies. The areas involving a higher degree of
judgement or complexity, or areas where
assumptions and estimates are significant to the
consolidated financial statements are disclosed
in note 3.
Use of adjusted measures 
Kingfisher believes that retail profit, adjusted
profit before tax, adjusted profit after tax and
adjusted earnings per share provide additional
useful information on underlying trends to
shareholders. These measures are used
by Kingfisher for internal performance analysis
and incentive compensation arrangements for
employees. The terms ‘retail profit’, ‘exceptional
item’ and ‘adjusted’ are not defined terms under
IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with
similarly titled profit measures reported by other
companies. It is not intended to be a substitute
for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of
profit. The term ‘adjusted’ refers to the relevant
measure being reported excluding exceptional
items, financing fair value remeasurements and
amortisation of acquisition intangibles. Retail
profit is defined as operating profit before
central costs (the costs of the Group Head
Office), exceptional items and the Group’s 
share of interest and taxation of joint ventures
and associates.
The separate reporting of non-recurring
exceptional items, which are presented
as exceptional within their relevant income
statement category, helps provide an indication
of the Group’s underlying business
performance. The principal items which will be
included as exceptional items are:
• non-trading items included in operating profit
such as profits and losses on the disposal of
subsidiaries, associates and investments which
do not form part of the Group’s trading
activities;
• gains and losses on the disposal of 
properties; and
• the costs of significant restructuring and
incremental acquisition integration costs.
b. Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements
incorporate the financial statements of the
Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint
ventures and associated undertakings.
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiary undertakings are all entities over
which the Group has the power to govern the
financial and operating policies generally
accompanying a shareholding of more than one
half of the voting rights. Subsidiary undertakings
acquired during the year are recorded under the
acquisition method of accounting and their
results included from the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiary undertakings which
have been disposed of during the year are
included up to the effective date of disposal.
The acquisition method of accounting is
used to account for the acquisition of
subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an
acquisition is measured as the fair value of the
assets given, equity instruments issued and
liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of
exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the
acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a
business combination are measured initially at
their fair values at the acquisition date,
irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the
fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable
net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill and
held as an intangible asset. If the cost of
acquisition is less than the fair value of the net
assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference
is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and
unrealised gains on transactions between Group
companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are
also eliminated unless the transaction provides
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been
changed where necessary to ensure consistency
with the policies adopted by the Group.
(ii) Joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group
has equal joint control, with a third party, to
govern the financial and operating activities 
of that entity. The equity method is used to
account for the Group’s interest in joint ventures.
Associates are all entities over which the
Group has the ability to exercise significant
influence but not control, generally accompanying
a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the
voting rights. Investments in associates are
accounted for by the equity method of
accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Group’s investment in associates includes
goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment
loss) identified on acquisition.
The Group’s share of its joint ventures’ and
associates’ post acquisition profits or losses is
recognised in the income statement, and its
share of post acquisition movements in reserves
is recognised in reserves. The cumulative post
acquisition movements are adjusted against the
carrying amount of the investment. When the
Group’s share of losses in an associate equals
or exceeds its interest in the associate, including
any other long-term receivables, the Group
does not recognise any further losses, unless it
has incurred obligations or made payments on
behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between
the Group and its associates are eliminated to
the extent of the Group’s interest in the
associates. Unrealised losses are also eliminated
unless the transaction provides evidence of an
impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting
policies of associates have been changed where
necessary to ensure consistency with the
policies adopted by the Group.
c. Foreign currency translation
(i) Functional and presentational currency
The consolidated financial statements are
presented in Sterling, which is the Group’s
presentational currency. Items included in the
financial statements of each of the Group’s
entities are measured using the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which 
the entity operates (the functional currency). 
(ii) Transactions and balances
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies
are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate
prevailing on the date of the transaction or, for
practical reasons, at average monthly rates
where exchange rates do not fluctuate
significantly. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated
in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling
at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet  58 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
2 Significant accounting policies
continued
date. Exchange differences on monetary items
are taken to the income statement. Exceptions
to this are where the monetary items form part
of the net investment in a foreign operation or
are designated and effective net investment or
cash flow hedges. Such exchange differences
are initially deferred in equity.
(iii) Group companies
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary
undertakings are expressed in Sterling at year
end exchange rates. Profits and losses of
overseas subsidiary undertakings are expressed
in Sterling at average exchange rates for the
year. Exchange differences arising on the
retranslation of foreign operations are
recognised in a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences
arising from the retranslation of the net
investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings
and other currency instruments designated as
hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange
differences are recognised in the income
statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
In accordance with the transitional
provisions of IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of
IFRS’, the cumulative translation reserve by
entity has been set to zero at the date of
transition to IFRS.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising
on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated
as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and
translated at the closing rate.
Principal rate of exchange
euro/£ 2007 2006
Year end rate 1.5172 1.4607
Average rate 1.4720 1.4649
d. Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises retail sales and services
supplied, commission income and rental
income. Revenue excludes transactions made
between companies within the Group, Value
Added Tax and other sales-related taxes and is 
net of returns, staff and trade discounts.
Revenue relating to the sale of in-store
product is earned at the point of cash receipt.
All other revenue is recognised when the
product has been delivered or, for installation
income, when the service has been performed.
Delivered products and service income
represent only a small component of the
Group’s revenue, as a majority of the Group’s
sales relate to in-store purchase of product.
e. Cost of sales
Cost of sales is the expenditure incurred in the
normal course of business in bringing the
product to the point of sale, including
warehouse and transportation costs, and the
impact of inventory cash flow hedges.
f. Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated
impairment losses. Goodwill is not amortised
and is tested annually for impairment by
assessing the recoverable amount of each cash
generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
When the recoverable amount of the cash
generating unit is less than the carrying amount,
an impairment loss is recognised immediately in
the income statement. Gains and losses on the
disposal of an entity include the carrying amount
of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
The Group has taken advantage of the
exemption permitted by IFRS 1 and has not
restated goodwill on acquisitions prior to the
date of transition to IFRS. 
(ii) Computer software
Acquired computer software licences are
capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to
acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated
useful lives of two to five years.
Costs that are directly associated with the
production of identifiable and unique software
products controlled by the Group and which are
expected to generate economic benefits
exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised
as intangible assets. Direct costs include software
development, employee and consultancy costs
and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Costs associated with identifying, sourcing,
evaluating or maintaining computer software are
recognised as an expense as incurred. 
g. Property, plant and equipment
(i) Cost 
Land and buildings held for use in the business
are stated in the balance sheet at cost less
accumulated depreciation and any provisions for
impairment. Land and buildings held at the date
of transition to IFRS are held at deemed cost,
being the fair value of land and buildings at the
date of transition to IFRS. Plant and equipment
are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation
and any provisions for impairment. 
(ii) Depreciation
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is
provided to reflect a reduction from cost to
estimated residual value over the estimated
useful life of the asset to the Group.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is
calculated using the straight line method and
the annual rates applicable to the principal
categories are:
Freehold and long
leasehold buildings – between 2% and 5%
Short leaseholds – over remaining period 
of the lease
Tenants’ fixtures – between 5% and 25%
Computers and 
electronic equipment – between 25% and 50%
Motor cars – 25%
Commercial vehicles – between 10% and 33%
Freehold land is not depreciated. 
(iii) Impairment
Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for
impairment if events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable. When a review for impairment is
conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed
by reference to the net present value of expected
future pre-tax cash flows of the relevant cash
generating unit or fair value, less costs to sell, if
higher. The discount rate is applied, based upon
the Group’s weighted average cost of capital
with appropriate adjustments for the risks
associated with the relevant business. Any
impairment in value is charged to the income
statement in the period in which it occurs. 
(iv) Disposal
The gain or loss arising on the disposal
or retirement of an asset is determined as the
difference between the sales proceeds and the
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised
in the income statement. Sales of land and
buildings are accounted for when there is an
unconditional exchange of contracts. 
(v) Subsequent costs
Subsequent costs are included in the related
asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a
separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is
probable that future economic benefits
associated with the item will flow to the Group
and the cost of the item can be measured
reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are
charged to the income statement in the period
in which they are incurred.
h. Leased assets
Where assets are financed by leasing
agreements which give rights approximating to
ownership, the assets are treated as if they have
been purchased outright. The amount capitalised
is the lower of the fair value and the present
value of the minimum lease payments during the
lease term at the inception of the lease. The
assets are depreciated over the shorter of the
lease term and their useful life. Obligations
relating to finance leases, net of finance charges
in respect of future periods, are included, as
appropriate, under payables due within or after
one year. The finance charge element of rentals
is charged to finance costs in the income
statement over the lease term. 
All other leases are operating leases and the
rental payments are generally charged to the
income statement in the financial year to which
the payments relate, except for those leases
which incorporate fixed minimum rental uplift
clauses. Leases which contain fixed minimum
rental uplifts are charged to the income
statement on a straight line basis over the 
lease term.
Where a lease is taken out for land and
buildings combined, the buildings element of the
lease may be capitalised as a finance lease if it
meets the criteria for a finance lease, but the
land element will always be classified as an
operating lease. If the contracted lease  Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 59
2 Significant accounting policies
continued
payments are not split between land and
buildings in the lease contract, the split is made
based on the market value of the land and
buildings at the inception of the lease. 
Incentives received or paid to enter into lease
agreements are released to the income statement
on a straight line basis over the lease term.
i. Investment property
The Group’s investment properties were
restated at historical cost on transition to IFRS
and are held in the balance sheet at cost less
depreciation and provision for impairment.
j. Capitalisation of interest and 
borrowing costs
Interest on borrowings to finance the construction
of properties held as non-current assets is
capitalised from the date work starts on the
property, to the date when substantially all the
activities which are necessary to get the property
ready for use are complete. Where construction
is completed in parts, each part is considered
separately when capitalising interest. Interest is
capitalised before any allowance for tax relief.
Borrowing costs are expensed in the period
in which they are incurred, except to the extent
that they are capitalised as indicated above. 
k. Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and
net realisable value, on a weighted average cost
basis. Cost includes appropriate attributable
overheads and direct expenditure incurred in the
normal course of business in bringing goods to
their present location and condition.
Cost of inventories includes the transfer
from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying
cash flow hedges relating to purchases. 
l. Rebates received from suppliers
Volume related rebates receivable from suppliers
are credited to the carrying value of the
inventory to which they relate. Where a rebate
agreement with a supplier covers more than one
year, the rebates are recognised in the accounts
in the period in which they are earned.
m. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand,
deposits held on call with banks, other short-term
highly liquid investments with original maturities of
three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank
overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current
liabilities on the balance sheet.
n. Employee benefits
(i) Pensions
The Group operates various defined benefit and
defined contribution pension schemes for its
employees, some of which are required by local
legislation. A defined benefit plan is a pension
plan which defines an amount of pension benefit
which an employee will receive on retirement. 
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan
under which the Group usually pays fixed 
contributions into a separate entity. In all cases,
other than some of the legally required
schemes, a separate fund is being accumulated
to meet the accruing liabilities. The assets
of each of these funds are either held under
trusts or managed by insurance companies and
are entirely separate from the Group’s assets.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in
respect of defined benefit pension plans is the
present value of the defined benefit obligation at
the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan
assets, together with an adjustment for any past
service costs not yet recognised. The defined
benefit obligation is calculated annually by
independent actuaries using the projected unit
credit method. The present value of the defined
benefit obligation is determined by discounting
the estimated future cash outflows using interest
rates of high-quality corporate bonds which are
denominated in the currency in which the benefits
will be paid and which have terms to maturity
approximating to the terms of the related pension
liability. An independent IAS 19 actuarial valuation
is carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from
experience adjustments and changes in
actuarial assumptions are charged or credited
to the statement of recognised income and
expense as they arise. 
Past service costs are recognised
immediately in the income statement, unless 
the changes to the pension plan are conditional
on the employees remaining in service for a
specified period of time (the vesting period). 
In this case, the past service costs are amortised
on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
For defined contribution plans, the Group
pays contributions to privately administered
pension plans on a contractual basis. 
The Group has no further payment obligations 
once the contributions have been paid. 
The contributions are recognised as an
employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an
asset to the extent that a cash refund or a
reduction in the future payments is available.
(ii) Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of 
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. In accordance
with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been
applied to all grants of equity instruments after
7 November 2002 which were unvested as of 
1 February 2004.
The Group operates several equity-settled,
share-based compensation plans. The fair value
of the employee services received in exchange
for the grant of options or deferred shares is
recognised as an expense and is calculated
using Black-Scholes and stochastic models.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect
expected and actual levels of options vesting.
The total amount to be expensed over the
vesting period is determined by reference to the
fair value of the options or deferred shares 
granted, excluding the impact of any non-market
vesting conditions. Non-market vesting
conditions are included in assumptions about
the number of options which are expected to
become exercisable. 
At each balance sheet date, the Group
revises its estimates of the number of options
which are expected to become exercisable. It
recognises the impact of the revision of original
estimates, if any, in the income statement and 
a corresponding adjustment to equity over the
remaining vesting period.
o. Taxation
The income tax expense represents the sum of
the tax currently payable and deferred tax. 
The tax currently payable is based on
taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs
from net profit as reported in the income
statement because it excludes items of income
or expense which are taxable or deductible in
other years and it further excludes items which
are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s
liability for current tax is calculated using tax
rates which have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to
be payable or recoverable on differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities in the financial statements and the
corresponding tax bases used in the
computation of taxable profit, and is accounted
for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised
for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that taxable profits will be available
against which deductible temporary differences
or unused tax losses can be utilised. Such
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the
temporary difference arises from goodwill or
from the initial recognition (other than in a
business combination) of other assets and
liabilities in a transaction which affects neither
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets 
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and
reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be
available to allow all or part of the asset to
be recovered.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for
taxable temporary differences arising on
investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
and interests in joint ventures, except where the
Group is able to control the reversal of the
temporary difference and it is probable that 
the temporary difference will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates
that have been enacted or substantially enacted
by the balance sheet date and are expected to
apply in the period when the liability is settled or
the asset is realised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset
against each other when they relate to income
taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and  60 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
2 Significant accounting policies
continued
when the Group intends to settle its current tax
assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
Current and deferred tax is charged or
credited in the income statement, except when
it relates to items charged or credited directly to
equity, in which case the current or deferred tax
is also recognised directly in equity.
p. Provisions
Provisions are recognised when:
• the Group has a present legal or constructive
obligation as a result of past events;
• it is more likely than not that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle 
the obligation; and
• the amount can be reliably estimated. 
Provisions are not recognised for future
operating losses. 
If the effect of the time value of money is
material, provisions are determined by discounting
the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate
which reflects current market assessments of
the time value of money and, where appropriate,
the risks specific to the liability.
q. Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are
recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when
the Group becomes a party to the contractual
provisions of the instrument. Financial assets are
derecognised when the contractual rights to the
cash flows from the financial asset expire.
Financial liabilities (or a part of a financial liability)
are derecognised when the obligation specified in
the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires.
(i) Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and
are stated at their nominal value as reduced by
appropriate allowances for estimated
irrecoverable amounts. 
(ii) Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are measured
at fair value. Gains and losses arising from
changes in fair value are recognised directly in
equity, until the investment is disposed of or is
determined to be impaired, at which time the
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in
equity is included in the income statement for
the period.
(iii) Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are
recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct
issue costs and subsequently measured at
amortised cost. Finance charges, including
premiums payable on settlement or redemption
and direct issue costs, are amortised to 
the income statement using the effective 
interest method.
(iv) Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are
stated at their nominal value.
(v) Derivative financial instruments and hedge
accounting
Where hedge accounting is not applied,
changes in the fair value of derivatives
transacted as hedges of financing items are
recognised in net finance costs in the income
statement as they arise. 
Derivatives are initially accounted and
measured at fair value on the date a derivative
contract is entered into and subsequently
measured at fair value with changes in fair value
recognised in the income statement unless
formally designated as a cash flow hedge or
net investment hedge. The accounting
treatment of derivatives classified as hedges
depends on their designation, which occurs 
on the date that the derivative contract is
committed to. 
The Group designates certain derivatives as:
• a hedge of a highly probable forecast
transaction or firm commitment in a foreign
currency (‘cash flow hedge’);
• a hedge of the fair value of an asset or liability
or unrecognised firm commitment (‘fair value
hedge’); or
• a hedge of a net investment in a foreign
currency (‘net investment hedge’).
Cash flow hedges 
Changes in the effective portion of the fair value
of derivative financial instruments that are
designated as hedges of future cash flows are
recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective
portion is recognised immediately in the income
statement where relevant. If the cash flow
hedge of a firm commitment or forecast
transaction results in the recognition of a non-
financial asset or liability, then, at the time it is
recognised, the associated gains or losses on
the derivative that had previously been
recognised in equity are included in the initial
measurement. For hedges that result in the
recognition of a financial asset or liability,
amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the
income statement in the same period in which
the hedged item affects net profit or loss. 
Fair value hedges 
For an effective hedge of an exposure
to changes in fair value, the hedged
item is adjusted for changes in fair value
attributable to the risk being hedged with 
the corresponding entry being recorded in
the income statement. Gains or losses from 
remeasuring the corresponding hedging
instrument are recognised in the same line 
of the income statement.
Net investment hedges
Where the Group hedges net investments in
foreign entities through currency borrowings, 
the gains or losses on the retranslation of the
borrowings are recognised in equity. If the
Group uses derivatives as the hedging
instrument, the effective portion of the hedge 
is recognised in equity, with any ineffective
portion being recognised in the income
statement. Gains and losses accumulated in
equity are recycled through the income
statement on disposal of the foreign entity.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the
Group documents in advance the relationship
between the item being hedged and the
hedging instrument. The Group also documents
and demonstrates an assessment of the
relationship between the hedged item and the
hedging instrument, which shows that the
hedge has been, and will be, highly effective on
an ongoing basis. The effectiveness testing is
re-performed at each period end to ensure that
the hedge remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the
hedging instrument expires or is sold,
terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies
for hedge accounting. At that time, any
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging
instrument recognised in equity is retained in
equity until the highly probable forecast
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no
longer expected to occur, the net cumulative
gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred
to the income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial
instruments or other host contracts are treated
as separate derivatives when their risks and
characteristics are not closely related to those of
host contracts, and the host contracts are not
carried at fair value with unrealised gains or
losses reported in the income statement.  Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 61
2 Significant accounting policies continued
r. New standards
The following new amendments and interpretations became effective in these financial statements:
IAS 21 Net investment in a foreign operation Provides guidance on accounting for monetary items forming part of an entity’s investment
(Amendment) in foreign operations. This had no impact on the Group’s results.
IAS 39 Cash flow hedge accounting of Permits under certain circumstances, the foreign currency risk of a highly probable 
(Amendment) forecast intra-group transactions intra-group forecast transaction to qualify as the hedged item in a cash flow hedge
in consolidated financial statements. This had no impact on the Group’s results.
IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Financial guarantee contracts Provides guidance on the accounting for financial guarantee contracts by the issuer.
(Amendment) This had no impact on the Group’s results.
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Provides guidance as to when arrangements comprising a transaction, or a series of
Arrangement contains a Lease transactions, that do not take the legal form of a lease but convey a right to use an asset
in return for a payment, or series of payments, should be accounted for as leases under IAS 17.
This had no impact on the Group’s results.
IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Provides guidance on the recognition of liabilities for waste management under the
Participating in a Specific EU Directive on WE&EE in respect of historical household equipment. This had no impact
Market – Waste Electrical and on the Group’s results.
Electronic Equipment (WE&EE)
The following new standards, amendments and interpretations became effective but were not relevant to the Group’s results:
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Clarifies that entities who adopt IFRS for the first time on 1 January 2006 and apply IFRS 6
(Amendment) Financial Reporting Standards before that date are exempt from providing comparative information in the prior period
and IFRS 6 (Amendment) and also from applying the recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS 6 in the 
Exploration for and Evaluation prior comparative period.
of Mineral Resources
IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation Provides guidance on developing accounting policies, impairment policies and disclosures
of Mineral Resources for exploration and evaluation assets.
IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Provides guidance on accounting for interests in, and additional contributions to, funds.
Decommissioning, Restoration
and Environmental
Rehabilitation Funds
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial
statements, were issued but not yet effective:
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Additional disclosure will be required with respect to financial instruments and share capital.
Disclosures and the amendments Additional disclosures will be required on the significance of financial instruments for an 
to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial entity’s financial position and performance, and qualitative and quantitative disclosures
Statements: Capital Disclosures on the nature and the extent of risks. IFRS 7 and amended IAS 1 will become mandatory 
for the Group’s 2007/08 financial statements.
IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Addresses the application of IAS 29 when an economy first becomes hyperinflationary
Approach under IAS 29 and in particular the accounting for deferred tax. This is not expected to have an impact
Financial Reporting in on the Group’s results.
Hyperinflationary Economies
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions in which some or all of 
goods and services cannot be specifically identified. This is not expected to have an 
impact on the Group’s results.
IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of Requires that a re-assessment of whether embedded derivatives should be separated
embedded derivatives from the underlying host contract should be made only where there are changes to the 
contract. This is not expected to have an impact on the Group’s results. 62 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of
policies and reported amounts. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The estimates
and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial
year are discussed below.
• Estimated impairment of goodwill
The Group is required to test whether goodwill has suffered any impairment. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined
based on value-in-use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation 
of the cash-generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value. Actual outcomes could vary significantly 
from these estimates. See note 12 for further information.
• Impairment of assets
Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable. When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is determined based on 
value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of management’s assumptions and estimates.
• Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes in each
territory. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. 
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome 
of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in 
the period to which such determination is made. See notes 9 and 27 for further information.
• Post employment benefits
The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised in the balance sheet is dependent on interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds. The net
financing charge is dependent on both the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds and the assumed investment returns on scheme assets. Other
key assumptions for pension obligations, including mortality rates, are based in part on current market conditions. See note 28 for further information.
• Restructuring provision
The Group provided £205.3m in the prior year relating to the closure and downsizing of stores in B&Q UK and the termination of the B&Q UK financial
services arrangement as detailed in note 5. During the year the Group utilised £28.8m of this provision against the related costs. The ultimate costs and
timing of cash flows are dependent on exiting the property lease contracts on the closed stores and sub-dividing and sub-letting the surplus space
released from those stores to be downsized, as detailed in note 29. Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 63
4 Segmental analysis
The Group’s primary reporting segments are geographic, with the Group operating in four main geographical areas, being the UK, France, Rest of Europe
and Asia. The Group only has one business segment, being retail, therefore no secondary segmental disclosure is given.
The ‘Rest of Europe’ segment consists of B&Q Ireland, Castorama Poland, Castorama Italy, Castorama Russia, Brico Dépôt Spain, Koçta¸ s and
Hornbach. Poland has been shown separately as it meets the reportable segment criteria as prescribed by IAS 14. The ‘Asia’ segment consists of B&Q
China, B&Q Taiwan and B&Q Home in South Korea. 
Income statement 
The segment results for the year ended 3 February 2007 are as follows:
United France Poland Rest of Asia Total
£ millions Kingdom Europe
External revenue 4,261.5 2,955.2 507.9 494.6 456.7 8,675.9
Segment result before joint ventures and associates 233.1 204.5 57.9 28.8 (0.8) 523.5
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates – 0.5 – 12.5 3.9 16.9
Segment result 233.1 205.0 57.9 41.3 3.1 540.4
Central costs (39.1)
Operating profit 501.3
Net finance costs (50.8)
Profit before taxation 450.5
Income tax expense (112.1)
Profit for the year 338.4
The segment results for the year ended 28 January 2006 are as follows:
United France Poland Rest of Asia Total
£ millions Kingdom Europe
External revenue 4,172.0 2,724.9 417.0 378.2 318.0 8,010.1
Segment result before joint ventures and associates 10.9 228.9 52.5 20.3 (20.4) 292.2
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates – 0.3 – 5.5 5.6 11.4
Segment result 10.9 229.2 52.5 25.8 (14.8) 303.6
Central costs (34.1)
Operating profit 269.5
Net finance costs (37.7)
Profit before taxation 231.8
Income tax expense (92.8)
Profit for the year 139.0
Central costs have not been allocated. These principally comprise the Head Office operations of Kingfisher plc. 
Balance sheet
The segment assets and liabilities are as follows:
United France Poland Rest of AsiaUnallocated Total
£ millions Kingdom Europe
At 3 February 2007
Segment assets excluding joint ventures and associates 4,123.7 2,314.8 466.2 592.3 423.0 511.6 8,431.6 
Investment in joint ventures and associates – 7.0 – 157.7 20.2 – 184.9 
Segment assets 4,123.7 2,321.8 466.2 750.0 443.2 511.6 8,616.5 
Segment liabilities (1,068.6) (653.6) (55.8) (209.5) (152.4) (2,055.6) (4,195.5)
At 28 January 2006
Segment assets excluding joint ventures and associates 4,182.6 2,264.4 437.9 525.0 425.5 337.8 8,173.2 
Investment in joint ventures and associates – 10.3 – 151.8 22.9 – 185.0 
Segment assets 4,182.6 2,274.7 437.9 676.8 448.4 337.8 8,358.2 
Segment liabilities (1,129.1) (632.5) (60.4) (190.2) (152.7) (1,872.9) (4,037.8)
Unallocated assets and liabilities include those assets and liabilities pertaining to the Head Office function, including Group net debt and the Group’s 
tax-related balances.  64 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
4 Segmental analysis continued
Other segmental information
United France Poland Rest of AsiaUnallocated Total
£ millions Kingdom Europe
For the year ended 3 February 2007
Capital expenditure
Property, plant and equipment 159.7 125.2 18.8 64.1 34.8 7.8 410.4 
Intangible assets 10.9 8.0 0.4 1.4 1.3 6.3 28.3 
Goodwill – – – – 0.3 – 0.3 
Investment property 0.1 – – – – – 0.1 
Depreciation (98.8) (36.5) (6.2) (11.6) (13.1) (7.6) (173.8)
Amortisation (20.7) (2.0) (0.2) (0.2) (1.9) (8.2) (33.2)
Impairment losses – – (0.8) (0.5) – – (1.3)
For the year ended 28 January 2006
Capital expenditure
Property, plant and equipment 139.1 150.9 18.9 75.5 32.6 7.8 424.8 
Intangible assets 42.4 6.0 0.2 0.2 5.4 18.1 72.3 
Goodwill – 12.9 – – 76.7 – 89.6 
Depreciation (90.8) (29.7) (5.3) (6.5) (9.2) (8.3) (149.8)
Amortisation (22.8) (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) (1.6) (7.1) (32.0)
Impairment losses (41.8) – – – – (5.8) (47.6)
5 Exceptional items
The following exceptional items, as defined in note 2a, have been (charged)/credited in arriving at profit before taxation: 
£ millions 2007 2006
Included within cost of sales, selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses
B&Q UK – reorganisation costs – (205.3)
OBI China – integration costs – (10.0)
– (215.3)
Included within other income
Profit on disposal of properties 49.1 15.3
Profit on disposal of available for sale financial assets 0.4 3.6
49.5 18.9
Included within other expenses
B&Q UK – financial services termination fee – (19.0)
Total exceptional items 49.5 (215.4)
Current year
Total profits recognised on the disposal of properties totalled £49.1m in the year. The Group recognised £42.7m profit on disposal of properties in
connection with the sale and leaseback of seven large UK stores to The British Land Company. 
The Group also received further consideration of £0.4m in the current year relating to the disposal of its investment in improveline.com in the prior year.
Prior year
During the prior year, the Group incurred a £205.3m restructuring charge in B&Q UK relating to the planned closure of 20 stores, the downsizing of a
further 17 stores and the costs of streamlining B&Q’s corporate offices. A further charge of £19.0m was incurred in the prior year following B&Q’s decision
to terminate a contract with its previous supplier of consumer credit services, which gave rise to the repayment of part of the original proceeds received
on disposal of Time Retail Finance in 2003. 
£10.0m of costs were also incurred in the prior year in relation to the integration of the OBI China business into B&Q China. These costs include the
incremental costs of the dedicated integration team, re-branding costs and the write-off of property, plant and equipment which were not deemed suitable
for the B&Q China business model. 
The Group disposed of a number of properties during the prior year giving rise to a profit of £15.3m. The Group also disposed of its investment in
improveline.com, for cash consideration of £3.6m and realised a profit of £3.6m, as the investment had been fully provided against in a prior year.
Refer to note 9 for the taxation impact on exceptional items. Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 65
6 Net finance costs
£ millions 2007 2006
Bank and other interest payable (74.1) (46.7)
Less amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 1.2 3.3
(72.9) (43.4)
Finance lease charges (5.8) (6.0)
Net interest charge on defined benefit schemes (note 28) – (3.8)
Financing fair value remeasurements 4.7 1.6
Unwinding of discount on provisions (1.6) –
Total finance costs (75.6) (51.6)
Bank and other interest receivable 18.5 13.9
Net interest return on defined benefit schemes (note 28) 6.3 –
Total finance income 24.8 13.9
Net finance costs (50.8) (37.7)
Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the centrally held borrowing pool and are calculated by applying a
capitalisation rate of 5.5% (2006: 5.3%) to expenditure on such assets. Interest payable above includes amortisation of issue costs of debt of £0.9m
(2006: £0.5m).
7 Profit before taxation
The following items have been charged/(credited) in arriving at profit before taxation:
£ millions 2007 2006
Operating lease rentals
1
Minimum lease payments 345.5 316.3 
Contingent rents 0.1 0.3 
Sublease income (16.7) (14.9)
328.9 301.7 
Amortisation of intangibles
2
33.2 32.0 
Impairment of intangibles
2
–7.5 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property
Owned assets 163.3 139.2
Under finance leases 10.5 10.6
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and investment property 1.3 40.1
Loss/(profit) on disposal
Intangible assets 5.7 2.0
Land and buildings and investment property (49.1) (15.3)
Fixtures, fittings and equipment
3
5.2 37.8
Available for sale financial assets (0.4) (3.6)
Rental income received on investment property (5.1) (6.1)
Repairs and maintenance 65.3 58.6
Provisions to write inventories down to net realisable value
4
19.2 47.4
Trade receivables: impairment of bad and doubtful debts 1.5 0.4
Staff costs (note 8) 1,176.3 1,106.0
Auditors’ remuneration
5
(see below) 3.6 2.7
Auditors’ remuneration
£ millions 2007 2006
Audit services
Fees payable to Company’s auditor for the audit of Company and consolidated financial statements 0.6 0.5 
Non-audit services
The auditing of accounts of associates of the Company pursuant to legislation 1.2 1.1 
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 0.2 0.3 
Tax advisory services 1.3 0.5 
All other services 0.3 0.3 
3.0 2.2 
3.6 2.7
1
Of the total operating lease rental charge for the
year, £33.0m related to plant and equipment 
(2006: £26.0m).
2
Of the amortisation and impairment of intangibles
charge, £nil (2006: £0.1m), £1.4m (2006: £1.3m)
and £31.8m (2006: £37.9m) respectively, were
included in cost of sales, selling and distribution
expenses and administrative expenses.
3
In 2006 this amount included £19.6m relating 
to the B&Q UK restructuring which was included 
as an exceptional charge.
4
There were no reversals of provisions to write
inventories down to net realisable value in the year
ended 3 February 2007 (2006: £nil). 
5
All paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  66 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
8 Employees and directors
£ millions 2007 2006
Employee benefit expenses
Wages and salaries 964.7 917.5
Social security costs 169.4 147.9
Post employment benefits – defined benefit (note 28) 39.6 36.9
– defined contribution (note 28) 2.6 3.7
1,176.3 1,106.0
Number thousands
Average number of persons employed
Stores 76.3 71.6
Administration 3.9 3.9
80.2 75.5
The equivalent number of employees working full-time would have been 67.4 63.8
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors and senior management (as shown on pages 34 to 35), who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out
below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. 
£ thousands 2007 2006
Short-term employee benefits 8,614 9,174
Post employment benefits 708 743
Other long-term benefits 77
Termination benefits 298 –
Share-based payment 2,199 2,978
11,826 12,902
Further detail with respect to Directors’ remuneration is set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 43 to 51. During the year, the actual
aggregate gains on the Directors’ Kingfisher share options at the date of exercise were £4,680 (2006: £nil). 
Directors’ transactions
There were no transactions with the Directors during the period (2006: £nil). 
For information concerning related party transactions, see note 37.
9 Income tax expense
£ millions 2007 2006
UK corporation tax
Current tax on profits for the year 35.7 7.2 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.3) (15.8)
35.4 (8.6)
Double taxation relief (5.5) (0.4)
29.9 (9.0)
Foreign tax
Current tax on profits for the year 80.7 86.9 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (2.3) 0.2 
78.4 87.1 
Deferred tax 
Current year 12.7 20.2 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (8.9) (4.3)
Attributable to changes in tax rates – (1.2)
3.8 14.7 
Income tax expense 112.1 92.8  Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 67
9 Income tax expense continued
Factors affecting the tax charge for the period
The tax charge for the period differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30%. The differences are explained below:
£ millions 2007 2006
Profit before tax 450.5 231.8 
Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2006: 30%) 135.2 69.5 
Effects of:
Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures (5.1) (3.4)
Expenses not (taxable)/deductible for tax purposes (8.8) 30.3 
Losses not recognised 0.2 10.7 
Foreign tax rate differences 2.1 6.8 
Adjustments in respect of prior years/attributable to change in tax rates (11.5) (21.1)
112.1 92.8 
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, tax of £30.1m (2006: £(20.1)m) was charged/(credited) directly to equity 
(see notes 27 and 31).
A tax credit of £7.3m has been recognised in the income statement relating to exceptional items, of which £4.6m is credited against the current year tax
charge in relation to the £49.5m net exceptional income, with the remaining £2.7m in respect of prior periods, relating to tax previously provided on
exceptional items.
Kingfisher paid €137.5m tax to the French tax authorities in the year ended 31 January 2004 as a consequence of the Kesa Electricals demerger and
recorded this as an exceptional tax charge. Proceedings for the recovery of this tax have been initiated and although this may take several years to be
resolved, Kingfisher believes that the risk of ultimately being liable for this amount is low. No asset has been recognised in these accounts as the recovery
of this amount is not sufficiently certain at this time.
In certain circumstances, it is possible that the conditions of the UK and French tax clearances for the demerger of Kesa Electricals in the year to 
31 January 2004 could be breached. Whilst the consequences of such a breach could be significant, the Group actively monitors compliance with these
conditions and believes that the likelihood of any breach is remote.
10 Dividends 
£ millions 2007 2006
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders in the year
Final dividend for the year ended 28 January 2006 of 6.8p per share (29 January 2005: 6.8p per share) 158.5 159.7
Interim dividend for the year ended 3 February 2007 of 3.85p per share (28 January 2006: 3.85p per share) 89.9 89.5
Dividend paid to Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust (ESOP) shares – (1.8)
248.4 247.4
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 3 February 2007 of 6.8p per share 161.8
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 3 February 2007 is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been
included as a liability in these financial statements. 68 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
11 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in
issue during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust (ESOP) which for the purpose of this calculation are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary
shares. These represent share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s shares
during the year.
Adjusted earnings per share figures are also presented. These exclude the effects of exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements and
amortisation of acquisition intangibles, to allow comparison of underlying trading performance on a consistent basis.
2007 2006
Earnings Weighted Per Earnings Weighted Per
average share average share
number amount number amount
of shares of shares 
£ millions millions pence £ millions millions pence
Basic earnings per share
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 336.8 2,333.0 14.4 139.5 2,324.7 6.0
Effect of dilutive securities
Options 10.8 – 10.2 –
Diluted earnings per share 336.8 2,343.8 14.4 139.5 2,334.9 6.0
Basic earnings per share 336.8 2,333.0 14.4 139.5 2,324.7 6.0
Effect of non-recurring costs
Exceptional items (49.5) (2.1) 215.4 9.3
Tax on exceptional items (7.3) (0.3) (68.8) (2.9)
Financing fair value remeasurements (4.7) (0.2) (1.6) (0.1)
Tax on financing fair value remeasurements 1.4 0.1 0.5 –
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 0.3 – 0.1 –
Basic – adjusted earnings per share 277.0 2,333.0 11.9 285.1 2,324.7 12.3
Diluted earnings per share 336.8 2,343.8 14.4 139.5 2,334.9 6.0
Effect of non-recurring costs
Exceptional items (49.5) (2.2) 215.4 9.2
Tax on exceptional items (7.3) (0.3) (68.8) (2.9)
Financing fair value remeasurements (4.7) (0.2) (1.6) (0.1)
Tax on financing fair value remeasurements 1.4 0.1 0.5 –
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 0.3 – 0.1 –
Diluted – adjusted earnings per share 277.0 2,343.8 11.8 285.1 2,334.9 12.2 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 69
12 Goodwill 
£ millions
Cost
At 29 January 2005 2,463.1
Additions 89.6
Exchange differences 6.1
At 28 January 2006 2,558.8
Additions 0.3
Exchange differences (7.6)
At 3 February 2007 2,551.5
Impairment tests for goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash generating units (CGUs). A geographic segmental-level summary of the goodwill allocation at net carrying
amount is presented below:
United France Poland Rest of Asia Total
£ millions Kingdom Europe
2007 1,796.1 512.0 81.0 55.0 107.4 2,551.5
2006 1,796.1 512.0 81.0 55.0 114.7 2,558.8
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations. The CGUs for which the carrying amount of goodwill is deemed
significant are the UK and France. The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are set out below:
United Kingdom 
• The cash flow projections are based on financial forecasts and strategic plans approved by the Board covering a five year period, based on both past
performance and expectations for future market development and include planned working capital movements and capital expenditure. Cash flows
beyond this five year period are extrapolated using a growth rate of 2.25% (2006: 2.25%) which does not exceed the long-term average growth rate 
for retail businesses in the UK. 
• The risk-adjusted discount rate of 8.7% (2006: 9.6%) is pre-tax and reflects the specific risks inherent in retail businesses, determined relative to
comparable retail companies in the UK. 
France
• The cash flow projections are based on financial forecasts and strategic plans approved by the Board covering a five year period, based on both past
performance and expectations for future market development and include planned working capital movements and capital expenditure. Cash flows
beyond this five year period are extrapolated using a growth rate of 1.8% (2006: 1.8%) which does not exceed the long-term average growth rate 
for retail businesses in France. 
• The risk-adjusted discount rate of 8.9% (2006: 9.7%) is pre-tax and reflects the specific risks inherent in retail businesses, determined relative to
comparable retail companies in France. 70 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
13 Intangible assets 
£ millions Software Other Total
Cost
At 29 January 2005 134.4 3.2 137.6
Additions 70.0 2.3 72.3
Disposals (4.3) – (4.3)
Arising on acquisition of subsidiary 0.1 0.8 0.9
Exchange differences 0.4 0.2 0.6
At 28 January 2006 200.6 6.5 207.1
Additions 26.6 1.7 28.3
Disposals (9.1) – (9.1)
Exchange differences (2.6) (0.4) (3.0)
At 3 February 2007 215.5 7.8 223.3
Amortisation
At 29 January 2005 67.4 0.3 67.7
Charge for the year 31.7 0.3 32.0
Impairment losses 7.5 – 7.5
Disposals (1.9) – (1.9)
Exchange differences 0.1 – 0.1
At 28 January 2006 104.8 0.6 105.4
Charge for the year 32.6 0.6 33.2
Disposals (3.3) – (3.3)
Exchange differences (1.4) (0.1) (1.5)
At 3 February 2007 132.7 1.1 133.8
Net carrying amount
At 3 February 2007 82.8 6.7 89.5 
At 28 January 2006 95.8 5.9 101.7 
The impairment losses in the prior year relate to B&Q UK’s reorganisation exceptional costs (see note 5). 
Amortisation and impairment losses are charged directly to the income statement through cost of sales, selling and distribution expenses and
administrative expenses (see note 7). The Group has no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.
Included within other intangible assets are intangible assets arising on acquisition of subsidiaries. The amortisation charge on these assets in the year 
was £0.3m (2006: £0.1m). Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 71
14 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Fixtures, Total
buildings fittings
and
£ millions equipment
Cost
At 29 January 2005 2,359.6 1,339.9 3,699.5
Additions 187.9 236.9 424.8
Disposals (99.7) (120.4) (220.1)
Arising on acquisition of subsidiary 81.5 15.0 96.5
Transferred to investment property (0.4) – (0.4)
Exchange differences 20.9 5.9 26.8
At 28 January 2006 2,549.8 1,477.3 4,027.1
Additions 197.8 212.6 410.4 
Disposals (193.5) (103.2) (296.7)
Transferred to investment property (15.6) – (15.6)
Reclassification (40.8) 40.8 –
Exchange differences (69.1) (23.9) (93.0)
At 3 February 2007 2,428.6 1,603.6 4,032.2
Depreciation
At 29 January 2005 88.6 579.1 667.7
Charge for the year 28.1 121.5 149.6
Impairment losses 13.2 21.1 34.3
Disposals (5.0) (86.1) (91.1)
Exchange differences 0.6 1.0 1.6
At 28 January 2006 125.5 636.6 762.1
Charge for the year 30.3 143.3 173.6
Impairment losses 1.3 – 1.3
Disposals (7.6) (100.4) (108.0)
Transferred to investment property (0.2) – (0.2)
Reclassification (4.4) 4.4 –
Exchange differences (2.6) (4.5) (7.1)
At 3 February 2007 142.3 679.4 821.7
Net carrying amount
At 3 February 2007 2,286.3 924.2 3,210.5
At 28 January 2006 2,424.3 840.7 3,265.0
Assets in the course of construction included above at net carrying amount
At 3 February 2007 138.2 52.4 190.6
At 28 January 2006 239.9 129.8 369.7
Assets held under finance lease included above at net carrying amount
At 3 February 2007 27.6 23.0 50.6
At 28 January 2006 34.8 21.0 55.8
The amount of interest capitalised in property, plant and equipment during the year was £1.2m (2006: £3.3m). The cumulative total of interest included at
the balance sheet date was £16.9m (2006: £16.8m).
Land and buildings are analysed as follows:
2007 2006
Freehold Long Short Total Total
£ millions leasehold leasehold 
Land and buildings 1,905.3 121.8 401.5 2,428.6 2,549.8 
Aggregate depreciation (39.2) (2.0) (101.1) (142.3) (125.5)
Net carrying amount 1,866.1 119.8 300.4 2,286.3 2,424.3
Properties held at 1 February 2004 are at deemed cost, being the fair value of land and buildings as at the transition date to IFRS. Fair value is taken to
be the open market value at the date of valuation. All property acquired from 1 February 2004 is carried at cost.
Included in land and buildings is leasehold land in the UK, China, Poland and Russia. This leasehold land is in effect a prepayment for the use of land and
is accordingly being amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets. 72 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
14 Property, plant and equipment continued
The cost and accumulated depreciation of leasehold land included in land and buildings at 3 February 2007 was £253.8m and £44.6m (2006: £260.9m
and £39.0m) respectively. 
If the Group had continued to revalue properties after transition to IFRS, the value of the properties as at 3 February 2007 would have been £3,136.5m
(2006: £2,984.9m). The values are based on valuations performed by external qualified valuers. The key assumption used in calculating this is the
estimated yields. The average income yields used were 5.5% in the UK, 6.7% in France and Italy, 6.8% in Poland and 7.7% in China.
15 Investment property
£ millions
Cost
At 29 January 2005 19.2
Disposals (0.9)
Transferred from property, plant and equipment 0.4 
Exchange differences 3.8 
At 28 January 2006 22.5 
Additions 0.1
Disposals (0.7)
Transferred from property, plant and equipment 15.6 
Exchange differences (0.8)
At 3 February 2007 36.7
Depreciation
At 29 January 2005 0.5
Charge for the year 0.2
Impairment losses 5.8
Exchange differences 0.7
At 28 January 2006 7.2
Charge for the year 0.2
Transferred from property, plant and equipment 0.2
Exchange differences (0.3)
At 3 February 2007 7.3
Net carrying amount
At 3 February 2007 29.4
At 28 January 2006 15.3
The impairment loss in the prior year relates to the write-down of an asset from its carrying value to its recoverable amount.
On transition to IFRS, investment properties were restated to historical cost. Their fair value as at 3 February 2007 is £38.7m (2006: £20.2m).
16 Subsidiaries
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 4 
of the Company’s separate financial statements. Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 73
17 Investments accounted for using equity method
£ millions
At 29 January 2005
Net assets excluding goodwill 160.5
Goodwill 13.2
At 29 January 2005 173.7
Additions – net assets 2.2
Share of post-tax results 11.4
Dividends (4.9)
Exchange differences 2.6
185.0
Analysed as:
Net assets excluding goodwill 171.8
Goodwill 13.2
At 28 January 2006 185.0
Share of post-tax results 16.9
Dividends (5.1)
Exchange differences (11.9)
184.9
Analysed as:
Net assets excluding goodwill 171.7
Goodwill 13.2
At 3 February 2007 184.9
During the prior year, £2.2m of capital injections were made into Koçta¸ s by both Kingfisher and the joint venture partner in equal proportion, which
therefore had no impact on our overall percentage interest held. 
Details of the significant joint ventures and associates are shown below:
Country of % interest held Description of class Main
incorporation of shares owned activity
Principal joint ventures
B&Q International Co. Ltd. Taiwan 50% ordinary Retailing
Koçta¸ s Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A.S. Turkey 50% ordinary Retailing
Principal associates
Hornbach Holding A.G. Germany 21.2% ordinary & preference Retailing
Crealfi S.A. France 49% ordinary Finance
Aggregate amounts relating to joint ventures and associates:
2007 2006
Joint Associates Total Joint Associates Total
£ millions ventures ventures
Current assets 38.7 163.0 201.7 34.0 157.2 191.2
Non-current assets 35.7 222.0 257.7 36.8 245.5 282.3
Current liabilities (41.9) (119.7) (161.6) (39.7) (138.3) (178.0)
Non-current liabilities (2.4) (110.5) (112.9) (0.4) (110.1) (110.5)
Net assets 30.1 154.8 184.9 30.7 154.3 185.0
Income 136.2 391.3 527.5 123.7 354.5 478.2
Expenses (126.8) (371.4) (498.2) (114.3) (342.2) (456.5)
Net finance costs (0.5) (5.4) (5.9) (0.1) (5.6) (5.7)
Profit before taxation 8.9 14.5 23.4 9.3 6.7 16.0
Income tax expense (1.7) (4.8) (6.5) (2.2) (2.4) (4.6)
Share of post-tax results 7.2 9.7 16.9 7.1 4.3 11.4
The Group had capital commitments to its joint ventures as at 3 February 2007 of £nil (2006: £nil). The joint venture partners had capital commitments to
the Group’s joint ventures of £nil as at 3 February 2007 (2006: £nil).
The joint ventures had contingent liabilities of £nil as at 3 February 2007 (2006: £nil). 74 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
18 Inventories
£ millions 2007 2006
Finished goods for resale 1,531.0 1,355.3
The cost of inventories recognised as expenses and included in cost of sales for the year ended 3 February 2007 amounted to £5,014.9m 
(2006: £4,613.1m).
19 Trade and other receivables 
£ millions 2007 2006
Current
Net trade receivables 50.2 47.0
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 0.2 0.2
Property receivables 6.8 20.8
Prepayments 182.5 165.2
Derivative assets (note 25) 9.7 2.7
Other receivables 256.0 334.7
505.4 570.6
Non-current
Property receivables 0.1 0.3
Prepayments 9.8 14.1
Derivative assets (note 25) 28.9 31.9
Other receivables 7.8 5.4
46.6 51.7
Total trade and other receivables 552.0 622.3
Other receivables principally comprise rebates due from suppliers. 
The directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair values. In addition, concentrations of credit risk
with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and unrelated and therefore no further credit risk provision is
required in excess of the normal provision for doubtful receivables.
20 Available for sale financial assets
£ millions 2007 2006
Current
Short-term investments 28.4 –
Short-term investments comprise cash deposits and government bonds, attracting interest rates based on LIBOR or equivalent market rates, with a
maturity between three months and one year. 
21 Cash and cash equivalents
£ millions 2007 2006
Cash at bank and in hand 249.4 211.3
Short-term deposits 145.1 22.8
394.5 234.1
The short-term deposits comprise money market deposits, attracting interest rates based on LIBOR or equivalent market rates, fixed for periods of up to
three months. The directors consider that the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate to their fair values.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following:
£ millions 2007 2006
Cash at bank and in hand 249.4 211.3
Short-term deposits 145.1 22.8
Bank overdrafts (note 22) (149.7) (120.4)
244.8 113.7 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 75
22 Borrowings
£ millions 2007 2006
Current
Bank loans 82.6 222.7
Bank overdrafts 149.7 120.4
Obligations under finance leases 8.7 3.7
241.0 346.8
Non-current
Bank loans 64.2 63.5
Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 1,306.6 1,123.8
Obligations under finance leases 60.9 68.2
1,431.7 1,255.5
Total borrowings 1,672.7 1,602.3
Bank loans and overdrafts
Current bank loans mature within the next 12 months and overdrafts are repayable on demand. Both bank loans and overdrafts are arranged at floating
rates of interest and expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Non-current bank loans include a £50m term loan maturing in February 2009, which bears an interest rate based on LIBOR fixed for periods up to six
months. The remaining bank loans are arranged at fixed rates of interest which have an average maturity of three years and an effective interest rate of
4.1% (2006: 5.0%). The fixed rate loans expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
None of the Group’s borrowings are secured (2006: £nil).
Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt
Medium Term Notes (MTNs) have been issued under the Group’s €2,500m MTN programme, and further debt issued as a US Private Placement 
as follows:
2007 2006
Maturity date Issued Coupon Effective Carrying Effective Carrying
amount interest rate amount interest rate amount
% £ millions % £ millions
23 Mar 2010
1
£150m 6.875% 7.016% 151.6 7.016% 158.1
21 Oct 2010
2
€500m 4.500% 4.635% 325.6 4.635% 342.4
15 Dec 2014
3
£250m 5.625% 5.761% 241.9 5.761% 249.8
23 Nov 2012
4
€550m 4.125% 4.273% 344.7 4.273% 373.5
24 May 2013
5
$206.5m 6.140% 6.140% 107.4 – –
24 May 2016
6
$81m 6.300% 6.300% 42.2 – –
24 May 2018
7
$179m 6.400% 6.400% 93.2 – –
1,306.6 1,123.8
No MTNs or other fixed term debt were repaid during the year.
The US Private Placement contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each semi-annual and annual financial reporting period, the ratio of
operating profit to net finance costs, as defined in the contract, should not be less than 3.00 to 1.00 for the preceding 12 month period.
1
Swapped to floating rate Sterling based on 3 month
LIBOR plus a margin using an interest rate swap as
disclosed in note 25.
2
€200m swapped to floating rate euro based on 
3 month EURIBOR plus a margin using an interest
rate swap as disclosed in note 25.
3
Swapped to floating rate euro based on 3 month
EURIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency
interest rate swap as disclosed in note 25.
4
Swapped to floating rate euro based on 3 month
EURIBOR plus a margin using an interest rate
swap, with €330m subsequently swapped to
floating rate Sterling based on 3 month LIBOR 
plus a margin using a cross-currency swap
as disclosed in note 25.
5, 6, 7
During the year, $466.5m of fixed term debt was
issued through the US Private Placement market.
This has been swapped to floating rate Sterling
based on 6 month LIBOR plus a margin using
a cross-currency interest rate swap as disclosed
in note 25. 76 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
22 Borrowings continued
Finance lease commitments
The Group leases certain of its buildings and fixtures and equipment under finance leases. The average lease term maturity for buildings is nine years and
for fixtures and equipment is two years. Building leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge to prevailing market conditions.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of minimum lease payments, are as follows:
2007 2006
Present Minimum Present Minimum
value of payments value of payments
£ millions payments payments
Within one year 8.7 14.1 3.7 9.0
After one year but not more than five years 21.6 38.4 23.9 49.2
After five years 39.3 62.7 44.3 71.3
Total minimum lease payments 69.6 115.2 71.9 129.5
Less amounts representing finance charges (45.6) (57.6)
Present value of minimum lease payments 69.6 71.9
The interest rate inherent in the finance leases is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term and therefore exposes the Group to fair value interest
rate risk. The effective interest rate on the Group’s finance leases is 8.7% (2006: 8.7%).
Fair value of borrowings
The directors consider that the carrying amounts of current bank loans and overdrafts and obligations under finance leases approximate to their 
fair values.
Where available, market values have been used to determine the fair value of non-current borrowings. Where market values are not available, fair values
have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest and exchange rates. The carrying amounts and fair values of the non-current
borrowings are as follows:
2007 2006
Carrying Fair values Carrying Fair values
£ millions amounts amounts
Bank loans 64.2 64.2 63.5 64.2
Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 1,306.6 1,327.1 1,123.8 1,134.6
Obligations under finance leases 60.9 67.7 68.2 83.3
1,431.7 1,459.0 1,255.5 1,282.1
23 Borrowing facilities
At 3 February 2007 the Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available:
£ millions 2007 2006
Expiring within one year ––
Expiring after one year but not more than two years ––
Expiring after two years 500.0 500.0
500.0 500.0
The Group has access to a £500m committed revolving credit facility, maturing in August 2011, provided by a number of banks. This facility is available to
be drawn to support the general corporate purposes of the Group including working capital requirements.
In March 2006, the Group obtained a further £300m committed bank facility, which provided short-term funding, but this was subsequently repaid and
cancelled with the proceeds of the $466.5m US Private Placement in May 2006.
Since the year end, the Group has entered into new committed revolving credit facilities, totalling £275m, with a number of banks, and a £25m bank
committed term loan facility. These new facilities mature in March 2010 and are available to be drawn to support the general corporate purposes of
the Group. Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 77
24 Trade and other payables
£ millions 2007 2006
Current
Trade payables 1,103.0 986.0
Other taxation and social security 157.2 168.2
Accruals 287.5 241.8
Deferred income 118.8 105.6
Derivative liabilities (note 25) 5.0 4.3
Owed to associated undertakings 0.2 0.2
Other payables 286.6 244.7
1,958.3 1,750.8
Non-current
Accruals and other payables 5.2 0.1
Derivative liabilities (note 25) 45.6 5.6
50.8 5.7
Total trade and other payables 2,009.1 1,756.5
Accruals include allowances for customer returns, representing the estimate of future sales returns at the year end. 
The directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair values.
25 Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives to hedge the risk arising from financing, the purchase of inventories in foreign currencies 
and net investments in overseas subsidiaries. In addition the Group uses inflation derivatives to hedge the risk associated with certain property 
lease contracts.
Fair value of derivative financial instruments
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated by discounting the future cash flows arising from the instrument using market rates. 
At the balance sheet date the fair values were:
2007 2006
£ millions Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Current
Cash flow hedges 0.6 (4.7) 2.6 (0.5)
Net investment hedges 4.6–––
Non-designated hedges 4.5 (0.3) 0.1 (3.8)
9.7 (5.0) 2.7 (4.3)
Non-current
Net investment hedges 14.2 – 4.7 (1.8)
Fair value hedges 14.7 (35.8) 27.2 (3.8)
Non-designated hedges – (9.8) – –
28.9 (45.6) 31.9 (5.6)
Total derivative financial instruments 38.6 (50.6) 34.6 (9.9)
Cash flow hedges
Foreign currency cash flow risk arises from the purchase of inventories in foreign currencies. This risk is hedged using forward foreign exchange contracts
to match committed, and a proportion of forecast inventory purchases arising in the next 12 months. At 3 February 2007 the Sterling equivalent notional
amount of such contracts was £157.8m (2006: £128.0m). The associated fair value gains and losses will be transferred to inventories when the
purchases occur over the next 12 months. Losses of £3.1m (2006: £0.5m) have been transferred to inventories for contracts which matured during the
year (see note 31).
Net investment hedges
The Group has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts and cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge part of the currency exposure arising
from its overseas investments. At 3 February 2007 the Sterling equivalent notional amount of such contracts was £295.3m (2006: £308.5m).
Fair value hedges
The Group is exposed to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk. Interest rate swaps have been transacted which convert fixed rate debt issued
under the Group’s MTN programme to a floating rate liability. During the year the Group issued a $466.5m US Private Placement which has been
swapped to a floating Sterling liability. At 3 February 2007 the Sterling equivalent notional amount of such contracts was £1,233.9m (2006: £1,020.2m). 78 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
25 Derivative financial instruments continued
The Group is exposed to inflation risk in certain property lease contracts. During the year an inflation swap was transacted to limit the impact of inflation on
some of these contracts. This derivative, which limits the annual inflation uplift on the underlying lease payments at 3% each year until April 2021, has been
hedge accounted as a fair value hedge of unrecognised future commitments. At 3 February 2007 the Sterling notional amount of such contracts was £10.5m.
Non-designated hedges
The Group has entered into certain derivatives to provide a hedge of fluctuations in the income statement arising from balance sheet positions. 
At 3 February 2007 the Sterling equivalent notional amount of such contracts was £424.2m (2006: £412.4m). These have not been hedge accounted,
since the fair value movements of the derivatives in the income statement offset the retranslation of the balance sheet positions. These include a forward
foreign exchange contract hedging part of the funding of the Group’s overseas operations, a cross-currency swap converting a euro-denominated debt
into a Sterling liability and short-term FX swap contracts.
The Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives which are required to be accounted for separately if they do not meet certain criteria. 
The Group does not have embedded derivatives which are not closely related to the host contract.
26 Interest rate and currency profile of financial assets and liabilities
The maturity, interest rate and currency profiles of financial assets and liabilities are presented below. The maturity profile is based on the timing of cash
flows. The interest rate and currency profiles are presented after taking into account the effects of hedging instruments.
Financial assets
At 3 February 2007
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years More than Total
£ millions 1 year 5 years
Cash and cash equivalents (note 21) 394.5––––– 394.5
Non-current receivables (note 19) – 9.5 0.4 4.6 0.2 3.0 17.7
Derivative assets (note 25) 9.7 – – 10.4 – 18.5 38.6
Available for sale financial assets (note 20) 28.4––––– 28.4
432.6 9.5 0.4 15.0 0.2 21.5 479.2
Analysed by currency:
Sterling 200.7
euro 110.6
US Dollar 53.0
Other 114.9
479.2
Analysed by interest rate profile:
Fixed 86.0
Floating 323.3
Non-interest bearing 69.9
479.2
At 28 January 2006
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years More than Total
£ millions 1 year 5 years
Cash and cash equivalents (note 21) 234.1––––– 234.1
Non-current receivables (note 19) – 15.0 – 0.4 – 4.4 19.8
Derivative assets (note 25) 2.7––– 20.9 11.0 34.6
236.8 15.0 – 0.4 20.9 15.4 288.5
Analysed by currency:
Sterling 80.7
euro 69.1
US Dollar 49.5
Other 89.2
288.5
Analysed by interest rate profile:
Fixed 0.7
Floating 195.1
Non-interest bearing 92.7
288.5 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 79
26 Interest rate and currency profile of financial assets and liabilities continued
Financial liabilities
At 3 February 2007
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years More than Total
£ millions 1 year 5 years
Bank loans (note 22) 82.6 2.8 52.8 3.7 4.9 – 146.8
Bank overdrafts (note 22) 149.7––––– 149.7
Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt (note 22) – – – 477.2 – 829.4 1,306.6
Obligations under finance leases (note 22) 8.7 7.8 6.5 4.1 3.2 39.3 69.6
Derivative liabilities (note 25) 5.0 – – 0.3 – 45.3 50.6
Onerous property contracts (note 29) 2.1 3.3 1.3 0.8 0.8 0.8 9.1
B&Q restructuring provision (note 29) 54.2 38.1 8.1––– 100.4
302.3 52.0 68.7 486.1 8.9 914.8 1,832.8
Analysed by currency:
Sterling 766.1
euro 994.8
Other 71.9
1,832.8
Analysed by interest rate profile:
Fixed 282.0
Floating 1,436.3
Non-interest bearing 114.5
1,832.8
At 28 January 2006
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years More than Total
£ millions 1 year 5 years
Bank loans (note 22) 222.7 – 3.7 53.9 5.9 – 286.2
Bank overdrafts (note 22) 120.4––––– 120.4
Medium Term Notes (note 22) –––– 500.5 623.3 1,123.8
Obligations under finance leases (note 22) 3.7 4.6 5.0 7.4 6.9 44.3 71.9
Derivative liabilities (note 25) 4.3 1.5 – 0.4 – 3.7 9.9
Onerous property contracts (note 29) 2.6 4.8 1.6 1.0 0.4 0.7 11.1
B&Q restructuring provision (note 29) 44.0 89.5 13.2 0.2 – – 146.9
397.7 100.4 23.5 62.9 513.7 672.0 1,770.2
Analysed by currency:
Sterling 610.3
euro 1,046.1
US Dollar 0.7
Other 113.1
1,770.2
Analysed by interest rate profile:
Fixed 290.9
Floating 1,321.3
Non-interest bearing 158.0
1,770.2 80 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
27 Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and when the Group
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
£ millions 2007 2006
Deferred tax liabilities (262.7) (204.4)
Deferred tax assets 30.2 –
(232.5) (204.4)
The movement in deferred tax during the year is as follows:
Deferred tax
Accelerated Gains on Provisions Tax losses Retirement Other Total
tax property benefit
£ millions depreciation obligations
At 29 January 2005 (86.6) (222.7) 17.2 1.1 92.7 6.1 (192.2)
(Charge)/credit to income statement (6.9) 25.6 4.3 – (37.7) – (14.7)
Credit to equity – 1.2 – – 14.5 4.4 20.1
Arising on acquisition of subsidiary – (11.1) – 0.9 – – (10.2)
Exchange differences (4.4) – (2.5) (0.5) – – (7.4)
At 28 January 2006 (97.9) (207.0) 19.0 1.5 69.5 10.5 (204.4)
(Charge)/credit to income statement (2.3) 17.3 4.3 7.3 (26.1) (4.3) (3.8)
Credit/(charge) to equity 0.1 – – – (28.9) (1.3) (30.1)
Exchange differences 2.4 3.9 0.7 (1.0) (0.2) – 5.8
At 3 February 2007 (97.7) (185.8) 24.0 7.8 14.3 4.9 (232.5)
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of £155.4m (2006: £79.1m) available for offset against future profits. A deferred tax asset has
been recognised in respect of £24.8m (2006: £4.5m) of such losses. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining £130.6m
(2006: £74.6m) due to the unpredictability of future profit streams. Included in unrecognised tax losses are tax losses arising in China and South Korea 
of £55.2m (2006: £53.2m) which can only be carried forward in the next one to five years and tax losses arising in Spain of £17.8m (2006: £13.2m) which
can only be carried forward for up to 15 years. Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures. As the earnings are continually reinvested by the
Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future. Earnings which could be remitted, on which there would be tax to pay, total
£127.3m (2006: £125.2m).
On 22 March 2007 the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28% from April 2008. Based
on a 28% UK corporation tax rate the deferred tax liability would reduce by less than £10m. No adjustment has been made for this change.
28 Post employment benefits
The Group operates a variety of post employment benefit arrangements covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes and funded defined
contribution schemes. The most significant are the funded, final salary defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for the Group’s UK employees;
however various defined benefit and defined contribution schemes are operated in France, Poland, Italy, China and South Korea. In France and Poland,
they are retirement indemnity in nature; and in South Korea and Italy, termination indemnity in nature. 
Defined contribution schemes
Pension costs for defined contribution schemes, at rates specified in the individual plans’ rules, are as follows:
£ millions 2007 2006
Defined contribution schemes (note 8) 2.6 3.7
Defined benefit schemes
Balance sheet obligations:
£ millions 2007 2006
Defined benefit liabilities 54.6 239.6
The amount of the defined benefit obligation at 3 February 2007 which relates to funded defined benefit schemes is £46.7m (2006: £232.0m).
Income statement charge:
£ millions 2007 2006
Pension benefits charged to operating profit (note 8) 39.6 36.9
Net interest (return)/charge (note 6) (6.3) 3.8
33.3 40.7 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 81
28 Post employment benefits continued
The most recent actuarial valuations of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligations were carried out as at 3 February 2007. 
The principal actuarial assumptions and expected rates of return used were as follows:
2007 2006
Annual % rate UK Other UK Other
Discount rate 5.3 4.6 to 5.5 4.7 4.0 to 6.0
Salary escalation 4.5 3.5 to 6.7 4.3 2.0 to 6.7
Rate of pension increases 2.9 n/a 2.7 n/a
Price inflation 2.9 2.0 to 2.5 2.7 2.0 to 2.5
2007 2006
% rate of return UK Other UK Other
Equities 7.8 – 7.6 –
Bonds 4.9 4.5 4.2 –
Property 6.3 – 5.9 –
Other 3.9 4.0 3.7 4.0
Overall expected rate of return 6.5 4.0 6.1 4.0
The overall expected rate of return is effectively a weighted average of the individual asset categories and their inherent expected rates of return.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, i.e. the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation. If this assumption
increased/decreased by 0.1%, the UK defined benefit obligation would decrease/increase by approximately £30.0m, and the annual UK current service
cost would decrease/increase by approximately £1.0m. 
The assumptions for pensioner longevity are based on an analysis of pensioner death trends under the scheme over the period from 1998 to 2004,
together with allowances for future improvements to death rates for all members. The specific tables used are the same as those used in the 2004
funding valuation, namely PMA92C2010 for male pensioners, PFA92C2010 (+2 year age rating) for female pensioners. Further allowances for improving
longevity are included for members yet to retire. 
At 3 February 2007 the Group has further strengthened the assumption for future improvements to mortality rates implying an increase in the assumed 
life expectancies. This has the impact of increasing the defined benefit obligation by 4% compared with that using the previous mortality rate projections.
These revised assumptions are equivalent to assuming the average age at death for a pensioner currently aged 60 is 85.1 for a male and 86.3 for 
a female. They are also equivalent to assuming an average age at death for a member aged 60 in 15 years time is 86.2 for a male and 87.5 for a female.
These assumptions will be reviewed following the next funding valuation due no later than as at 31 March 2007.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2007 2006
£ millions UK Other Total UK Other Total
Amounts charged to operating profit:
Current service cost 34.9 4.7 39.6 33.2 3.7 36.9
Past service cost ––––––
Total operating charge (note 8) 34.9 4.7 39.6 33.2 3.7 36.9
Amounts (credited)/charged to net finance costs:
Expected return on pension scheme assets (73.1) (0.4) (73.5) (58.9) (0.4) (59.3)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 65.6 1.6 67.2 61.7 1.4 63.1
Net interest (return)/charge (note 6) (7.5) 1.2 (6.3) 2.8 1.0 3.8
Total charged to income statement 27.4 5.9 33.3 36.0 4.7 40.7
Of the charge to operating profit for the year, £27.3m (2006: £25.4m) and £12.3m (2006: £11.5m) respectively were included in selling and distribution
expenses and administrative expenses, and a £6.3m net credit (2006: £3.8m net charge) was included in net finance costs. Actuarial gains and losses
have been reported in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The actual return on pension scheme assets was as follows:
2007 2006
£ millions UK Other Total UK Other Total
Actual return on pension scheme assets 76.6 0.5 77.1 185.7 0.5 186.2 82 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
28 Post employment benefits continued
The amounts included in the balance sheet, within non-current liabilities, arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement
schemes, are determined as follows:
2007 2006
£ millions UK Other Total UK Other Total
Present value of defined benefit obligations (1,394.7) (36.8) (1,431.5) (1,420.4) (39.1) (1,459.5)
Fair value of scheme assets 1,366.7 10.2 1,376.9 1,209.8 10.1 1,219.9
Net liability (28.0) (26.6) (54.6) (210.6) (29.0) (239.6)
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations in the balance sheet are as follows:
Obligations:
2007 2006
£ millions UK Other Total UK Other Total
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year (1,420.4) (39.1) (1,459.5) (1,186.1) (33.0) (1,219.1)
Total service cost charged in the income statement (34.9) (4.7) (39.6) (33.2) (3.7) (36.9)
Interest cost (65.6) (1.6) (67.2) (61.7) (1.4) (63.1)
Actuarial gains and losses 88.2 3.5 91.7 (170.0) (2.5) (172.5)
Contributions paid by employees (10.9) – (10.9) (12.6) – (12.6)
Benefits paid 48.9 3.7 52.6 43.2 1.3 44.5
Exchange differences – 1.4 1.4 – 0.2 0.2
Defined benefit obligation at end of year (1,394.7) (36.8) (1,431.5) (1,420.4) (39.1) (1,459.5)
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets in the balance sheet are as follows:  
Assets:
2007 2006
£ millions UK Other Total UK Other Total
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 1,209.8 10.1 1,219.9 884.0 9.4 893.4
Expected return of pension scheme assets 73.1 0.4 73.5 58.9 0.4 59.3
Actuarial gains and losses 3.5 0.1 3.6 126.8 0.1 126.9
Contributions paid by employer 118.3 3.8 122.1 170.7 1.6 172.3
Contributions paid by employees 10.9 – 10.9 12.6 – 12.6
Benefits paid (48.9) (3.7) (52.6) (43.2) (1.3) (44.5)
Exchange differences – (0.5) (0.5) – (0.1) (0.1)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1,366.7 10.2 1,376.9 1,209.8 10.1 1,219.9
The analysis of the scheme assets at the balance sheet date is as follows:
2007 2006
£ millions UK Other Total % of total UK Other Total % of total
Equities 705.0 – 705.0 51% 638.5 – 638.5 52%
Bonds 512.3 0.2 512.5 37% 449.4 – 449.4 37%
Property 121.3 – 121.3 9% 96.7 – 96.7 8%
Other 28.1 10.0 38.1 3% 25.2 10.1 35.3 3%
Total market value of assets 1,366.7 10.2 1,376.9 100% 1,209.8 10.1 1,219.9 100%
The pension plans do not hold any other assets than those disclosed above. Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 83
28 Post employment benefits continued
The history of experience adjustments is as follows:
£ millions 2007 2006 2005 2004
Present value of defined benefit obligations (1,431.5) (1,459.5) (1,219.1) (1,040.2)
Fair value of scheme assets 1,376.9 1,219.9 893.4 793.9
Net liability (54.6) (239.6) (325.7) (246.3)
£ millions 2007 2006 2005 2004
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 3.6 126.9 33.1 –
Percentage of scheme assets 0.3% 10.4% 3.7% n/a
Experience gain/(loss) arising on pension scheme liabilities 0.5 (0.3) (12.0) –
Percentage of scheme liabilities 0.0% 0.0% 1.0% n/a
Changes in assumptions underlying present value of pension scheme liabilities 91.2 (172.2) (100.4) –
Percentage of scheme liabilities (6.4%) 11.8% 8.2% n/a
Total gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense in the year 95.3 (45.6) (79.3) –
Cumulative gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense (29.6) (124.9) (79.3) –
The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the UK, France and other pension schemes during the next financial year is £105.5m.
29 Provisions 
Onerous B&Q Total
property restructuring
£ millions contracts provision
At 28 January 2006 11.1 146.9 158.0
Charge to income statement 0.2 – 0.2
Utilised in the year (2.5) (47.8) (50.3)
Unwinding of discount 0.3 1.3 1.6
At 3 February 2007 9.1 100.4 109.5
Included in current liabilities 2.1 54.2 56.3
Included in non-current liabilities 7.0 46.2 53.2
9.1 100.4 109.5
Within the onerous property contracts provision, Kingfisher has provided against future liabilities for all properties sublet at a shortfall and long-term idle
properties. The provision is based on the value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and service charges. This excludes idle properties related to
the B&Q UK restructuring programme which are included in the B&Q restructuring provision.
The B&Q restructuring provision represents the estimated cost of the B&Q UK store and head office restructuring programme. This provision has been
discounted to reflect the time value of money and the risks associated with the specific liabilities. The provision is expected to be utilised over the next
two to three years. The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows are dependent on exiting the property lease contracts on the closed stores and 
sub-dividing and sub-letting the surplus space released from those stores to be downsized. 84 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
30 Share capital and premium
Number of Ordinary Share Treasury Total
ordinary share premium shares
shares capital
millions £ millions £ millions £ millions £ millions
At 29 January 2005 2,348.0 369.0 2,166.2 (100.3) 2,434.9
Shares issued to satisfy share option scheme exercises 5.3 0.8 9.1 – 9.9
Treasury shares disposed to satisfy share option scheme exercises – – – 5.2 5.2
At 28 January 2006 2,353.3 369.8 2,175.3 (95.1) 2,450.0
Shares issued to satisfy share option scheme exercises 5.7 0.9 9.9 – 10.8
Treasury shares disposed to satisfy share option scheme exercises – – – 13.8 13.8
At 3 February 2007 2,359.0 370.7 2,185.2 (81.3) 2,474.6 
The total number of authorised ordinary shares is 3,022.7m shares (2006: 3,022.7m shares) with a par value of 15
5
⁄7p per share 
(2006: 15
5
⁄7p per share). All issued shares are fully paid.
Treasury shares represent Kingfisher plc shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust (ESOP).
31 Reserves 
Hedging Translation Other Retained Total
£ millions reserve reserve reserves earnings
At 30 January 2005 (4.4) 56.8 159.0 1,736.1 1,947.5 
Actuarial losses on post employment benefits – – – (45.6) (45.6)
Treasury shares disposed – – – (2.6) (2.6)
Share-based compensation charge – – – 14.0 14.0
Share-based compensation – shares awarded – – – (0.9) (0.9)
Currency translation differences – 28.4 – – 28.4
Cash flow hedges – fair value gains 7.5 – – – 7.5
Cash flow hedges – losses transferred to inventories 0.5 – – – 0.5
Tax on items recognised directly in equity (2.4) 6.9 – 15.6 20.1
Net gains recognised directly in equity 5.6 35.3 – (19.5) 21.4
Profit for the year – – – 139.5 139.5
Total recognised gains for the year 5.6 35.3 – 120.0 160.9
Dividends – – – (247.4) (247.4)
At 28 January 2006 1.2 92.1 159.0 1,608.7 1,861.0
Actuarial gains on post employment benefits – – – 95.3 95.3
Treasury shares disposed – – – (6.7) (6.7)
Share-based compensation charge – – – 8.9 8.9
Currency translation differences – (70.9) – – (70.9)
Cash flow hedges – fair value losses (9.1) – – – (9.1)
Cash flow hedges – losses transferred to inventories 3.1 – – – 3.1
Tax on items recognised directly in equity 1.8 – – (31.9) (30.1)
Net losses recognised directly in equity (4.2) (70.9) – 65.6 (9.5)
Profit for the year – – – 336.8 336.8
Total recognised gains for the year (4.2) (70.9) – 402.4 327.3
Dividends – – – (248.4) (248.4)
At 3 February 2007 (3.0) 21.2 159.0 1,762.7 1,939.9
Included within retained earnings is the historical revaluation reserve held prior to the adoption of IFRS amounting to £226.1m (2006: £265.4m).
Other reserves represent the premium on the issue of convertible loan stock in 1993, the merger reserve relating to the acquisition of Darty and the
dividend in specie received from a subsidiary prior to the demerger of Woolworths. Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 85
32 Share-based payments
2007 2006
Options Weighted Options Weighted
average average
exercise exercise
Number price £ Number price £
Outstanding at beginning of year 24,572,206 1.63 20,211,101 1.84 
Granted during the year
1,2
11,427,599 0.88 7,932,848 1.24 
Forfeited during the year (4,773,299) 0.34 (3,144,410) 2.08 
Exercised during the year (2,439,375) 1.58 (376,045) 0.82 
Expired during the year (411,496) 1.55 (51,288) 1.56 
Outstanding at end of year 28,375,635 1.39 24,572,206 1.63 
Exercisable at end of year 525,703 1.46 1,704,209 2.05 
The Group issues a variety of equity-settled share-based payments. Details of significant schemes are shown on pages 43 to 51 of the Remuneration
report.
Employees leaving employment during the vesting period are deemed to have forfeited their options.
The fair value of share options and deferred shares is obtained using the Black-Scholes and stochastic option pricing models. The inputs into these
models are as follows:
Date of Share Exercise Expected Expected Gross Risk free Fair
grant price at price volatility life dividend rate value
grant yield
£ £ % years % % £
Executive Share Scheme 17/04/03 2.44 2.38 35.0% 6.0 4.0% 4.2% 0.64
17/04/03 2.44 2.38 35.0% 6.0 4.0% 4.2% 0.64
Kingfisher Incentive Share Scheme 05/04/04 2.91 – 35.0% 3.5 3.7% 4.7% 2.58
05/04/04 2.91 – 35.0% 3.5 3.7% 4.7% 1.61
28/04/04 2.86 – 35.0% 3.5 3.7% 4.7% 2.54
28/04/04 2.86 – 35.0% 3.5 3.7% 4.7% 1.58
06/04/05 2.86 – 35.0% 3.5 3.7% 4.6% 2.55
06/04/05 2.86 – 35.0% 3.5 3.7% 4.6% 1.62
10/04/06 2.31 – 19.8% 3.5 4.6% 4.5% 2.01
10/04/06 2.31 – 19.8% 3.5 4.6% 4.5% 0.77
Performance Share Plan 28/06/06 2.29 – 19.8% 3.5 0.0% 4.9% 1.04
24/10/06 2.65 – 19.6% 3.5 0.0% 5.0% 1.36
Kingfisher Retention Plan 16/03/06 2.48 – 21.9% 1.5 4.3% 4.4% 2.38
16/03/06 2.48 – 18.9% 2.5 4.3% 4.4% 2.28
28/06/06 2.29 – 18.9% 2.5 4.3% 4.4% 2.11
ShareSave 01/05/03 2.41 1.87 35.0% 3.5 4.0% 3.6% 0.70
01/05/03 2.41 1.87 35.0% 5.5 4.0% 3.8% 0.76
01/05/03 2.41 2.28 35.0% 4.5 4.0% 3.7% 0.68
22/10/04 3.08 2.45 35.0% 3.5 3.3% 4.5% 0.98
22/10/04 3.08 2.45 35.0% 5.5 3.3% 4.6% 1.08
27/10/05 2.01 1.76 35.0% 3.5 5.3% 4.3% 0.49
27/10/05 2.01 1.76 35.0% 5.5 5.3% 4.4% 0.52
26/10/06 2.65 1.97 19.9% 3.5 4.0% 4.0% 0.75
26/10/06 2.65 1.97 28.1% 5.5 4.0% 4.0% 0.86
Options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the period. On that basis, the weighted average share price during the year, rather than at the date
of exercise, was £2.43 (2006: £2.49). The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.63 years
(2006: 4.23 years). The weighted average exercise price for share options outstanding at the end of the year was £1.39 (2006: £1.63).
1
The charge to the income statement for the years
ended 3 February 2007 and 28 January 2006 in
respect of share-based payments includes the first
year’s charge of the 2007 and 2006 Kingfisher
Incentive Scheme (KIS) share grants respectively,
based on the cash bonus for the year. Since grants
under the KIS are made following the year end to
which the first year of charge relates, it is not
possible to give the number of options granted 
until after the year end. 
2
The weighted average exercise price for options
granted during the period represents a blend of 
nil price KIS, Performance Share Plan (PSP) and
Retention Plan options and discounted ShareSave
options (see below). 86 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
32 Share-based payments continued
Expected volatility was determined for each individual award, by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price immediately prior to the grant
of the award, over the same period as the vesting period of each award, adjusted by management’s expectation of future volatility. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and
behavioural considerations.
At 3 February 2007 15 members of key management held various options.
All grants of options are made by the Remuneration Committee, which consists solely of non-executive directors.
Under the UK ShareSave Scheme, eligible UK employees have been invited to enter into Inland Revenue approved savings contracts for a period of three 
or five years, whereby shares may be acquired with repayments under the contract.
An International ShareSave Plan, along the lines of the UK ShareSave Scheme, is available for eligible employees overseas. There are 11,826 employees
in ShareSave Schemes, of which 71 are in the International Plan at 3 February 2007. 
The Group recognised a total expense of £9.0m in the year ended 3 February 2007 (2006: £14.1m) relating to share-based payment transactions of
which £8.9m (2006: £14.0m) related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions. The total carrying amount for liabilities arising from cash 
settled share-based payment transactions at the end of the period was £0.1m (2006: £0.1m). 
33 Net cash flows from operating activities
£ millions 2007 2006
Operating profit 501.3 269.5
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property 173.8 149.8
Amortisation of intangible assets 33.2 32.0
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment and investment property 1.3 40.1
Impairment loss on intangible assets –7.5
Share-based compensation charge 9.0 14.1
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates (16.9) (11.4)
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and investment property (43.9) 22.5
Loss on disposal of intangible assets 5.7 2.0
Profit on disposal of available for sale financial assets (0.4) (3.6)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 663.1 522.5
Movements in working capital (excluding the effects of acquisitions and
disposals of subsidiaries and exchange differences on consolidation)
Increase in inventories (215.0) (33.3)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 44.0 (97.3)
Increase in trade and other payables 295.1 27.3
Decrease in post employment benefits (82.5) (135.2)
(Decrease)/increase in other provisions (47.0) 140.2
(5.4) (98.3)
Cash generated by operations 657.7 424.2
Income taxes paid (98.3) (120.1)
Net cash flows from operating activities 559.4 304.1 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 87
34 Net debt
Net debt incorporates the Group’s borrowings, interest rate and cross currency swaps that hedge those borrowings (excluding accrued interest), bank
overdrafts and obligations under finance leases, less cash and cash equivalents and current available for sale financial assets, as detailed below.
£ millions 2007 2006
Cash and cash equivalents 394.5 234.1
Current available for sale financial assets 28.4 –
Bank overdrafts (149.7) (120.4)
Bank loans (146.8) (286.2)
Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt (1,306.6) (1,123.8)
Interest rate and cross currency swaps (excluding accrued interest) (44.0) 13.0
Obligations under finance leases (69.6) (71.9)
Net debt (1,293.8) (1,355.2)
A reconciliation of the movement in net debt from the beginning to the end of the year is detailed below.
£ millions 2007 2006
Net debt at beginning of year (1,355.2) (841.1)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 135.7 1.8
Increase in available for sale financial assets 29.3 –
Amortisation of issue costs of debt (0.9) (0.5)
Increase in debt and lease financing (107.3) (516.2)
Exchange differences and fair value adjustments on financial instruments 4.6 0.8
Net debt at end of year (1,293.8) (1,355.2)
35 Acquisitions 
During the year the Group acquired the remaining minority interest in three of its B&Q China subsidiaries for a cash consideration of £2.2m, generating
goodwill of £0.3m.
Prior year
The acquisitions detailed below occurred in the previous year ended 28 January 2006.
On the 30 June 2005, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the issued share capital of OBI Asia Holdings Limited (the name of which was subsequently
changed to B&Q Asia Holdings Limited) for cash consideration of £143.5m, with total goodwill arising of £89.6m. OBI Asia Holdings Limited was the
parent company of OBI AG’s home improvement retailing operations in China. Details of the net assets acquired with this acquisition are as follows:
Carrying Fair value Fair
£ millions amount adjustments value
Net assets acquired
Property, plant and equipment 63.0 33.5 96.5
Supplier contracts intangible – 0.8 0.8
Other intangibles 0.1 – 0.1
Deferred tax assets – 0.9 0.9
Inventories 10.9 – 10.9
Trade and other receivables 5.3 – 5.3
Cash 6.5 – 6.5
Trade and other payables (29.3) – (29.3)
Current tax liabilities (0.1) – (0.1)
Deferred tax liabilities – (11.1) (11.1)
Contingent liabilities – (0.9) (0.9)
Minority interests (8.4) (1.6) (10.0)
48.0 21.6 69.6
Goodwill 73.9
Total consideration 143.5
Satisfied by:
Cash 142.6
Directly attributable costs 0.9
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 143.5
Cash acquired (6.5)
If the acquisition of OBI Asia Holdings Limited had been completed on the first day of the 2006 financial year, Group revenue for 2006 would have been
£8,052.4m and Group profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent would have been £134.5m. The acquisition of OBI Asia Holdings Limited
contributed post acquisition revenue of £33.4m and a pre-tax loss of £13.1m in 2006. 88 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
35 Acquisitions continued
Kingfisher also acquired the remaining minority interests in two of its B&Q China subsidiaries for a cash consideration of £6.8m, generating goodwill of
£2.7m, and acquired a number of stores in France through either company or business acquisitions for a cash consideration of £17.2m, generating
goodwill of £13.0m.
Total purchase consideration for the above acquisitions amounted to £167.5m with total goodwill arising of £89.6m. The goodwill recognised represents
the benefits of the acquisitions across the Group when combined with existing Group assets and businesses and the value of those assets not requiring
valuation under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
All these acquisitions have been accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting.
There were no material disposals during either year.
36 Major non-cash transactions
There were no major non-cash transactions during the year ended 3 February 2007 (2006: £nil).
37 Related party transactions
During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries carried out a number of transactions with related parties in the normal course of business and on an
arm’s length basis. The names of the related parties, the nature of these transactions and their total value is shown below:
2007 2006
Value of (Payable)/ Value of (Payable)/
transactions receivable transactions receivable
£ thousands at year end at year end
Transactions with B&Q International Co. Ltd (Taiwan) in which the Group holds a 50% interest
Provision of employee services (77) (38) 319 19
Commission and other income 8 19 111 (13)
Transactions with Crealfi S.A. in which the Group holds a 49% interest
Provision of employee services – – 80 80
Interest charge on loan –– 17 –
Loan ––– 1,041
Commission and other income – – 2,018 94
Transactions with Koçta¸ s Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A.S. in which the Group holds a 50% interest
Provision of employee services (11) 67 56 46
Commission and other income 11 54 176 28
Other costs (32) (32) – –
Transactions with Hornbach Holding A.G. in which the Group holds a 21.2% interest
Provision of employee services 150 – – –
Commission and other income 3 137 243 (108)
Other costs (207) (243) – –
The Company provides administrative services to the Group’s pension schemes.
The amounts charged to the schemes and the balances outstanding at the year end were:
Kingfisher Pension Scheme 1,783 258 1,652 465
Kingfisher Retirement Trust –– 9 8
Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis. Goods are sold or bought on the basis of the price lists in force with 
non-related parties.
The loans to associates have a due date of December 2014, with an interest rate until December 2009 of 3 month EURIBOR plus 0.65%, and from
January 2010 through to December 2014 of 3 month EURIBOR plus 1.15%. 
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No provisions have been made for
doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties. Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 89
38 Commitments
Operating lease commitments
The Group leases various retail outlets, offices, warehouses, plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. 
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. 
Undiscounted total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2007 2006
Land and Plant and Land and Plant and
£ millions buildings machinery buildings machinery
Within one year 350.5 16.6 318.9 15.4
After one year but not more than five years 1,395.4 39.7 1,279.6 22.3
After five years 3,819.6 3.3 3,609.0 1.0
5,565.5 59.6 5,207.5 38.7
The total of future minimum operating sublease receipts expected to be received at 3 February 2007 is £112.5m (2006: £72.9m).
Capital commitments
Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Group amounted to £39.6m (2006: £40.0m). 
39 Contingent liabilities
Kingfisher plc has an obligation to provide a bank guarantee for £50.0m (2006: £50.0m) to the liquidators of Kingfisher International France Limited 
in the event that Kingfisher plc’s credit rating falls below ‘BBB’. The obligation arises from an indemnity provided in June 2003 as a result of the demerger 
of Kesa Electricals.
In addition, the Group has arranged for certain bank guarantees to be provided to third parties in the ordinary course of business. The total amount
outstanding at the year end was £28.7m (2006: £25.7m). 90 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Kingfisher plc 
We have audited the Group financial
statements of Kingfisher plc for the year
ended 3 February 2007 which comprise
the Consolidated income statement, the
Consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense, the Consolidated
balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow
statement, and the related notes. These
Group financial statements have been
prepared under the accounting policies
set out therein.
We have reported separately on
the Parent company financial statements
of Kingfisher plc for the year ended
3 February 2007 and on the information
in the Remuneration report that is
described as having been audited. 
Respective responsibilities of
directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing
the annual report and the Group financial
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
European Union are set out in the
Directors’ responsibilities statement.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group
financial statements in accordance with
relevant legal and regulatory requirements
and International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland). This report, including the
opinion, has been prepared for and only
for the company’s members as a body in
accordance with Section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion,
accept or assume responsibility for any
other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose
hands it may come save where expressly
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to
whether the Group financial statements
give a true and fair view and whether the
Group financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information
given in the Directors’ report is consistent
with the Group financial statements. 
The information given in the Directors’
report includes that specific information
presented in the Operating review and 
the Financial review that is cross referred
from the business review section of the
Directors’ report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our
opinion, we have not received all the
information and explanations we require
for our audit, or if information specified by
law regarding director’s remuneration and
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate
Governance statement reflects the
company’s compliance with the nine
provisions of the Combined Code (2003)
specified for our review by the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the Board’s
statements on internal control cover all
risks and controls, or form an opinion on
the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and
control procedures.
We read other information contained
in the annual report and consider whether
it is consistent with the audited Group
financial statements. The other information
comprises only the Chairman’s statement,
the Chief Executive’s review, the Operating
review, the Financial review, the Directors’
report, the Directors’ responsibilities
statement, the Corporate Governance
report, the Audit Committee report and
the Nomination Committee report.
We consider the implications for our
report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the Group financial
statements. Our responsibilities do not
extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance
with International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in
the Group financial statements. It also
includes an assessment of the significant 
estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the Group
financial statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit
so as to obtain all the information and
explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Group financial
statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud
or other irregularity or error. In forming 
our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation 
of information in the Group 
financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true
and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union, of the
state of the Group’s affairs as at 3
February 2007 and of its profit and cash
flows for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’
report is consistent with the Group
financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and 
Registered Auditors
London 
28 March 2007 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 91
Company balance sheet
As at 3 February 2007
£ millions Notes 2007 2006
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 3 13.9 14.8
Investments 4 5,584.0 8,116.8
5,597.9 8,131.6
Current assets
Debtors due within one year 5 3,443.1 3,857.5
Debtors due after more than one year 5 37.9 30.5
Cash at bank and in hand 140.1 26.8
3,621.1 3,914.8
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 (1,209.6) (4,721.0)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 2,411.5 (806.2)
Total assets less current liabilities 8,009.4 7,325.4
Non-current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 7 (1,402.2) (1,178.3)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 8 (1.4) (21.6)
Net pension liability 9 (0.6) (4.1)
(1,404.2) (1,204.0)
Net assets 6,605.2 6,121.4
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 370.7 369.8
Share premium account 11 2,185.2 2,175.3
Non-distributable reserves 11 2,934.2 2,934.2
Profit and loss account 11 1,115.1 642.1
Equity shareholders’ funds 12 6,605.2 6,121.4
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 March 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
Gerry Murphy Duncan Tatton-Brown
Director Director 92 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the Company financial statements
1 Accounting policies
Accounting conventions
The financial statements of Kingfisher plc (the
Company) are made up to the nearest Saturday
to 31 January each year. The financial
statements are prepared under the historical
cost convention, with the exception of certain
financial instruments which are included in the
financial statements at fair value, and are
prepared in accordance with applicable
accounting standards in the United Kingdom
and the Companies Act 1985.
The Company’s financial statements are
included in the consolidated financial statements
of Kingfisher plc. As permitted by section 230 of
the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss
account and statement of total recognised gains
and losses are not presented. The Company
has taken advantage of the exemption from
preparing a cash flow statement under the
terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements. The
Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 8
Related Party Disclosures from disclosing
related party transactions with subsidiaries of
Kingfisher plc.
The Company has taken advantage of the
exemption from providing financial instrument
disclosures under the terms of FRS 25 Financial
instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
Foreign currencies
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at
the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary items are
taken to the profit and loss account.
Principal rate of exchange
euro/£ 2007 2006
Year end rate 1.5172 1.4607
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance
sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation
and any provisions for impairment. Depreciation
of tangible fixed assets is provided to reflect a
reduction from cost to estimated residual value
over the estimated useful life of the asset to 
the Company. 
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is
calculated using the straight line method and
the annual rates applicable to the principal
categories are:
Fixtures and fittings – between 10% and 25%
Computers and 
electronic equipment – between 25% and 50%
Motor cars – 25%
Tangible fixed assets are reviewed for
impairment if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
may not be recoverable. When a review for
impairment is conducted, the recoverable
amount is assessed by reference to net
realisable value. Any impairment in value is 
charged to the profit and loss account in the
period in which it occurs.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries and associates are
included in the balance sheet at cost less any
provisions for impairment.
Operating leases
Rentals under operating leases are charged on
a straight line basis over the lease term to the
profit and loss account in the period to which
the payments relate. Incentives received or paid
to enter into lease agreements are released to
the profit and loss account over the lease
term or, if shorter, the period to the date on
which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to
the prevailing market rate.
Pensions
The Company operates defined benefit and
defined contribution pension schemes for its
employees. A defined benefit plan is a pension
plan that defines an amount of pension benefit
which an employee will receive on retirement. 
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan
under which the Company usually pays fixed
contributions into a separate entity. In all cases
a separate fund is being accumulated to meet
the accruing liabilities. The assets of each of
these funds are either held under trusts or
managed by insurance companies and are held
entirely separate from the Company’s assets.
In accordance with FRS 17 Retirement
Benefits, the operating and financing costs of
pension and other post-retirement benefits are
recognised separately in the profit and loss
account. Current service costs are recognised
within operating profit and the interest cost and
expected return on pension assets are included
in net finance costs. 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet
in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the
present value of the defined benefit obligation at
the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan
assets, together with an adjustment for any past
service costs not yet recognised. The defined
benefit obligation is calculated annually by
independent actuaries using the projected unit
credit method. The present value of the defined
benefit obligation is determined by discounting
the estimated future cash outflows using interest
rates of high quality corporate bonds which are
denominated in the currency in which the benefits
will be paid and which have terms to maturity
approximating to the terms of the related pension
liability. An independent FRS 17 actuarial
valuation is carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from
experience adjustments and changes in
actuarial assumptions are charged or credited
directly to the profit and loss reserve as 
they arise.
Past service costs are recognised
immediately in the profit and loss account,
unless the changes to the pension plan are
conditional on the employees remaining in
service for a specified period of time (the vesting 
period). In this case, the past service costs are
amortised on a straight line basis over the
vesting period.
For defined contribution plans, the
Company pays contributions to privately
administered pension plans on a contractual
basis. The Company has no further payment
obligations once the contributions have been
paid. The contributions are recognised as an
employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an
asset to the extent that a cash refund or a
reduction in future payments is available. 
Deferred taxation
Provision is made for deferred tax using the
incremental provision approach and is measured
on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that
are expected to apply in the periods in which
timing differences reverse, based on tax rates
and laws substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of
timing differences that have originated but not
reversed by the balance sheet date subject to
the following:
• Deferred tax is not recognised on the
revaluation of non-monetary assets such as
property unless a binding sale agreement exists
at the balance sheet date. Where rollover relief
is available on an asset then deferred tax is
not recognised. 
• Deferred tax is recognised on unremitted
earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates
and joint ventures only where dividends are
accrued as receivable or there is an intention to
remit these in the foreseeable future.
• Deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Assets are regarded as recoverable when it is
regarded as more likely than not that there will
be suitable taxable profits from which the future
reversal of the underlying timing differences 
can be deducted.
• Deferred tax is not recognised on 
permanent differences.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are
recognised in the Company’s balance sheet
when the Company becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the
contractual rights to the cash flows from the
financial asset expire. Financial liabilities (or a
part of a financial liability) are derecognised
when the obligation specified in the contract 
is discharged or cancelled or expires.
(i) Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are
recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct
issue costs and subsequently measured at
amortised cost. Finance charges, including
premiums payable on settlement or redemption
and direct issue costs, are amortised to the
profit and loss account using the effective
interest method. 1 Accounting policies continued
(ii) Derivative financial instruments 
and hedge accounting
Where hedge accounting is not applied,
changes in the fair value of derivatives
transacted as hedges of financing items are
recognised in the profit and loss account as
they arise.
Derivatives are initially accounted and
measured at fair value on the date a derivative
contract is entered into and subsequently
measured at fair value with changes in fair value
recognised in the profit and loss account unless
formally designated as a cash flow hedge.
The accounting treatment of derivatives
classified as hedges depends on their
designation, which occurs on the date that
the derivative contract is committed to.
The Company designates certain derivatives
as a hedge of the fair value of an asset or
liability (‘fair value hedge’). For an effective
hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair
value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes
in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged
with the corresponding entry being recorded in
the profit and loss account. Gains or losses
from remeasuring the corresponding hedging
instrument are recognised in the same line of
the profit and loss account.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, 
the Company documents in advance the 
relationship between the item being hedged 
and the hedging instrument. The Company also
documents and demonstrates an assessment 
of the relationship between the hedged item
and the hedging instrument, which shows that
the hedge has been, and will be, highly effective
on an ongoing basis. The effectiveness testing is
re-performed at each period end to ensure that
the hedge remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when 
the hedging instrument expires or is sold,
terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies
for hedge accounting. 
Derivatives embedded in other financial
instruments or other host contracts are treated
as separate derivatives when their risks and
characteristics are not closely related to those of
host contracts, and the host contracts are not
carried at fair value with unrealised gains or
losses reported in the profit and loss account.
Employee Share Ownership Plan
The Company’s Employee Share Ownership
Plan Trust (ESOP) is a separately administered
trust. Liabilities of the ESOP are guaranteed by
the Company and the assets of the ESOP
mainly comprise shares in the Company. 
In accordance with UITF 38, own shares
held by the ESOP are deducted from equity
shareholders’ funds. 
Share-based payments
The Company operates several equity-settled,
share-based compensation plans. The fair value
of the employee services received in exchange
for the grant of options or deferred shares is
recognised as an expense and is calculated
using Black-Scholes and stochastic models.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect
expected and actual levels of options vesting.
The total amount to be expensed over the
vesting period is determined by reference to the
fair value of the options or deferred shares
granted, excluding the impact of any non-
market vesting conditions. Non-market vesting
conditions are included in assumptions about
the number of options that are expected to
become exercisable. 
At each balance sheet date, the Company
revises its estimates of the number of options
which are expected to become exercisable. It
recognises the impact of the revision of original
estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account,
and a corresponding adjustment to equity
shareholders’ funds over the remaining 
vesting period.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 93 94 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
2 Profit and loss account disclosures
The Company’s profit on ordinary activities after taxation was £709.3m (2006: loss of £75.7m).
The Company’s audit fee was £0.5m (2006: £0.4m).
Dividend disclosures are provided in note 10 of the Kingfisher plc consolidated financial statements. 
Directors’ remuneration 
£ thousands 2007 2006
Executive directors 
Salaries and taxable benefits 2,186 1,911
Bonuses 946 222
Long-term incentive 573 501
Non-executive directors
Fees 636 497
4,341 3,131
During the year, the actual aggregate gains on Kingfisher share options at the date of exercise were £4,680 (2006: £nil). Further detail in relation to
directors’ remuneration is set out in the Remuneration report on pages 43 to 51.
Employees
£ millions 2007 2006
Employee benefit expenses
Wages and salaries 14.5 14.0
Social security costs 1.7 1.6
Post employment benefits – defined benefit (note 9) 1.1 0.9
– defined contribution 0.1 0.1
17.4 16.6
Number 
Average number of persons employed
Administration 136 131
The equivalent number of employees working full-time would have been 134 126
3 Tangible fixed assets
Fixtures, fittings
£ millions and equipment
Cost
At 28 January 2006 20.4
Additions 3.8
Disposals (0.6)
At 3 February 2007 23.6
Depreciation
At 28 January 2006 5.6
Charge for year 4.5
Disposals (0.4)
At 3 February 2007 9.7
Net carrying amount
At 3 February 2007 13.9
At 28 January 2006 14.8
Assets in the course of construction included above
At 3 February 2007 1.6
At 28 January 2006 0.8 4 Investments
Investment Investment Total
in Group in 
£ millions companies associates
At 28 January 2006 8,007.6 109.2 8,116.8
Additions 328.9 – 328.9
Impairments (26.7) – (26.7)
Capital reductions (2,445.7) – (2,445.7)
Disposals (389.3) – (389.3)
At 3 February 2007 5,474.8 109.2 5,584.0
Additions to investments in Group companies represent £328.9m (2006: £2,504.7m) of capital injections into a number of existing subsidiary companies.
During the year the Company received £2,445.7m from a subsidiary as part of a capital reduction of that subsidiary.
The directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. The following information
relates to those subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings of Kingfisher plc and its subsidiaries at the year end whose results or
financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affect the figures of the consolidated financial statements of Kingfisher plc. 
All the companies incorporated in Great Britain are registered in England and Wales.
Country of % owned Description Main activity
incorporation and of share
and operation voting rights classes owned
Principal subsidiaries
B&Q Asia Holdings Ltd
9
Hong Kong 100% ordinary Holding company
B&Q (China) B.V.
8
Netherlands 100% ordinary Holding company
B&Q Ireland Limited Ireland 100% ordinary Retailing
B&Q Korea Limited Korea 100% ordinary Retailing
B&Q plc
2
Great Britain 100% ordinary & special
3
Retailing
B&Q Properties Limited Great Britain 100% ordinary Property investment
Castorama Dubois Investissements S.C.A.
2,4
France 100% ordinary Holding company
Castorama Holding S.A.
4
France 100% ordinary Holding company
Castorama France S.A.S.
4
France 100% ordinary Retailing
Immobilière Castorama S.A.S.
4
France 100% ordinary Property investment
Castorama Italia S.P.A.
4
Italy 100% ordinary Retailing
Castorama RUS LLC
5
Russia 100% ordinary Retailing
Castorama Polska Sp.z.o.o.
4
Poland 100% ordinary Retailing
Eurodépôt S.A.
4,7
France 100% ordinary Holding company
Brico Dépôt S.A.S.
4
France 100% ordinary Retailing
Eurodépôt Immobilier S.A.S.
4
France 100% ordinary Property investment
Euro Depot España S.A.
4
Spain 100% ordinary Retailing
Halcyon Finance Ltd
1
Great Britain 100% ordinary Finance
Screwfix Direct Limited Great Britain 100% ordinary Retailing
Kingfisher TMB Limited Great Britain 100% ordinary Retailing
Principal joint ventures
B&Q International Co. Ltd
5
Taiwan 50% ordinary Retailing
Koçta¸ s Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A.S.
5
Turkey 50% ordinary Retailing
Principal associated undertakings
Hornbach Holding A.G.
1,6
Germany 21% ordinary & preference Retailing
Crealfi S.A.
4
France 49% ordinary Finance
1
Held directly by Kingfisher plc.
2
The merged Castorama and B&Q group is
100% owned of which 44.7% is held directly by
Kingfisher plc.
3
The special shares in B&Q are owned 100% by
Kingfisher plc and are non-voting.
4
Owing to local conditions, these companies
prepare their accounts to 31 January each year.
5
Owing to local conditions and to avoid undue 
delay in the presentation of the Group accounts,
these companies prepare their accounts to 
31 December.
6
To avoid undue delay in presentation of the Group
accounts, Hornbach Holding A.G. made up their
accounts to 30 November. The Group’s 21.2%
interest in Hornbach Holding A.G. represents 25%
of the voting ordinary shares and 17.4% of the
non-voting preference shares.
7
Trading as Brico Dépôt.
8
Holding company for the Group’s Chinese retailing
operations, which have a 31 December year end.
9
Holding company for the Group’s former OBI China
retailing operations, which have a 31 December
year end.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 95 96 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
5 Debtors
£ millions 2007 2006
Amounts falling due within one year
Owed by subsidiary undertakings 3,415.6 3,826.9
Corporation tax 24.7 12.8
Other debtors 2.8 17.8
3,443.1 3,857.5
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Interest rate and cross currency swaps 24.6 20.5
Deferred tax asset 13.0 10.0
Prepayments 0.3 –
37.9 30.5
6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
£ millions 2007 2006
Bank loans and overdrafts 0.4 0.4
Owed to subsidiary undertakings 1,160.2 4,681.4
Other creditors 29.7 27.4
Accruals and deferred income 19.3 11.8
1,209.6 4,721.0
7 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
£ millions 2007 2006
Interest rate and cross currency swaps 45.6 4.5
Funding
Bank loans 50.0 50.0
Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 1,306.6 1,123.8
1,356.6 1,173.8
1,402.2 1,178.3
External funding falls due for repayment as follows:
After one year but not more than two years ––
After two years but not more than five years 527.3 549.7
After five years 829.3 624.1
1,356.6 1,173.8
8 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Onerous Other Total
property provisions
£ millions contracts
Balance at 28 January 2006 2.6 19.0 21.6
Charge to profit and loss account 0.1 – 0.1
Utilised (1.3) (19.0) (20.3)
Balance at 3 February 2007 1.4 – 1.4
Within the onerous property contracts provision, Kingfisher has provided against future liabilities for all properties sublet at a shortfall and long-term idle
properties. The provision is based on the value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and service charges. The provisions are not discounted as,
given the length of the remaining leases, the impact is not considered material.
The other provision relates to B&Q’s decision to terminate a contract in the prior year with its previous supplier of consumer credit services. This gave rise
to the repayment of part of the original proceeds received on disposal of Time Retail Finance in 2003. The contract was held by Kingfisher plc on behalf
of B&Q and therefore the provision was held by the Company. This was paid during the year.
9 Net pension liability
The Company participates in both a funded defined benefit scheme and a funded defined contribution scheme. 
The total pension charge in the profit and loss account for the UK defined contribution scheme was £0.1m (2006: £0.1m). 
Defined benefit schemes 
With reference to the defined benefit scheme, the Kingfisher Pension Scheme, Kingfisher plc is one of a member of Group companies that participate in
the scheme, and therefore the Company has accounted for its share of the scheme assets and liabilities. The valuation of the scheme used for FRS 17
has been based on the most recent actuarial valuation of the Group’s UK scheme at 31 March 2004 and has been updated to 3 February 2007. Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 97
9 Net pension liability continued
The amounts included in the balance sheet, within the net pension liability, arising from the Company’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit
retirement scheme, are determined as follows:
£ millions 2007 2006
Present value of defined benefit obligations (45.9) (41.0)
Fair value of scheme assets 45.1 35.1 
Net liability (0.8) (5.9)
Related deferred tax asset 0.2 1.8 
(0.6) (4.1)
The most recent actuarial valuations of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligations were carried out as at 3 February 2007. 
The principal actuarial assumptions and expected rates of return used were as follows:
Annual % rate 2007 2006
Discount rate 5.3 4.7 
Salary escalation 4.5 4.3 
Rate of pension increases 2.9 2.7 
Price inflation 2.9 2.7 
% rate of return 2007 2006
Equities 7.8 7.6 
Bonds 4.9 4.2 
Property 6.3 5.9 
Other 3.9 3.7 
Overall expected rate of return 6.5 6.1 
The overall expected rate of return is effectively a weighted average of the individual asset categories and their inherent expected rates of return.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, i.e. the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation. If this assumption
increased/decreased by 0.1%, the defined benefit obligation would decrease/increase by approximately £1m, and the annual UK current service cost
would decrease/increase by approximately £0.03m. 
The assumptions for pensioner longevity are based on an analysis of pensioner death trends under the scheme over the period from 1998 to 2004,
together with allowances for future improvements to death rates for all members. The specific tables used are the same as those used in the 2004
funding valuation, namely PMA92C2010 for male pensioners, PFA92C2010 (+2 year age rating) for female pensioners. Further allowances for improving
longevity are included for members yet to retire. 
At 3 February 2007 the Company has further strengthened the assumption for future improvements to mortality rates implying an increase in the assumed
life expectancies. This has the impact of increasing the defined benefit obligation by 4% compared with that using the previous mortality rate projections.
These revised assumptions are equivalent to assuming the average age at death for a pensioner currently aged 60 is 85.1 for a male and 86.3 for a
female. They are also equivalent to assuming an average age at death for a member aged 60 in 15 years time is 86.2 for a male and 87.5 for a female.
These assumptions will be reviewed following the next funding valuation due no later than as at 31 March 2007.
The amounts recognised in the profit and loss account are as follows:
£ millions 2007 2006
Amounts charged to operating profit:
Current service cost (1.1) (0.9)
Total operating charge (1.1) (0.9)
Amounts credited/(charged) to other finance costs:
Expected return on pension scheme assets 2.3 1.7
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (2.2) (1.8)
Net interest return/(cost) 0.1 (0.1)
Total charged to the profit and loss account (1.0) (1.0)
The actual return on pension scheme assets was as follows:
£ millions 2007 2006
Actual return on pension scheme assets 7.1 5.4  98 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
9 Net pension liability continued
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations in the balance sheet are as follows:
Obligations:
£ millions 2007 2006
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year (41.0) (35.6)
Total service cost charged in the profit and loss account (1.1) (0.9)
Interest cost (2.2) (1.8)
Actuarial losses (2.8) (4.9)
Contributions paid by employees (0.4) (0.4)
Benefits paid 1.6 2.6 
Defined benefit obligation at end of year (45.9) (41.0)
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets in the balance sheet are as follows:
Assets:
£ millions 2007 2006
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 35.1 26.6
Expected return of pension scheme assets 2.3 1.7
Actuarial gains 4.8 3.7
Contributions paid by employer 4.1 5.3
Contributions paid by employees 0.4 0.4
Benefits paid (1.6) (2.6)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 45.1 35.1
The total net actuarial gains and losses for the year ended 3 February 2007 was a gain of £2.0m (2006: loss of £1.2m).
The analysis of the scheme assets at the balance sheet date is as follows:
2007 2006
£ millions % of total % of total
Equities 23.3 52% 18.6 53%
Bonds 16.9 37% 13.0 37%
Property 4.0 9% 2.8 8%
Other 0.9 2% 0.7 2%
Total market value of assets 45.1 100% 35.1 100%
The pension plans do not hold any other assets than those disclosed above. 
The history of experience adjustments is as follows:
£ millions 2007 2006 2005 2004
Present value of defined benefit obligations (45.9) (41.0) (35.6) (96.9)
Fair value of scheme assets 45.1 35.1 26.6 27.3
Net liability (0.8) (5.9) (9.0) (69.6)
£ millions 2007 2006 2005 2004
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 4.8 3.7 1.3 2.1
Percentage of scheme assets 10.6% 10.5% 4.9% 7.7%
Experience loss arising on pension scheme liabilities – – (0.4) (0.2)
Percentage of scheme liabilities – – 1.1% 0.2%
Changes in assumptions underlying present value of pension scheme liabilities (2.8) (4.9) (3.7) (1.6)
Percentage of scheme liabilities 6.1% 12.0% 10.4% 1.7%
Total gain/(loss) recognised in the profit and loss reserve 2.0 (1.2) (2.8) 0.3
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the pension scheme during the next financial year is £4.0m. Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 99
10 Called up share capital
Number of Share
ordinary capital
shares
Allotted and fully paid millions £ millions
Ordinary shares of 15
5
⁄7p each at 28 January 2006 2,353.3 369.8
Shares issued to satisfy share option scheme exercises 5.7 0.9
Ordinary shares of 15
5
⁄7p each at 3 February 2007 2,359.0 370.7
The total number of authorised shares is 3,022.7m shares (2006: 3,022.7m shares) with a par value of 15
5
⁄7p per share (2006: 15
5
⁄7p per share). 
11 Reserves
Share Non- Profit Total
premium distributable and loss
£ millions reserves account
At 28 January 2006 2,175.3 2,934.2 642.1 5,751.6
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension scheme (note 9) – – 2.0 2.0
Shares issued to satisfy share option scheme exercises 9.9 – – 9.9
Share-based compensation charge –– 3.6 3.6
ESOP shares disposed –– 7.1 7.1
Profit for the financial year – – 709.3 709.3
Ordinary dividends on equity shares – – (248.4) (248.4)
Tax on items recognised directly in equity – – (0.6) (0.6)
At 3 February 2007 2,185.2 2,934.2 1,115.1 6,234.5
The non-distributable reserves represent the premium on the issue of convertible loan stock in 1993, the merger reserve relating to the acquisition of
Darty and the dividend in specie received from a subsidiary prior to the demerger of Woolworths.
The value of the ESOP shares deducted from the profit and loss reserve at 3 February 2007 is £81.3m (2006: £95.1m).
12 Reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders’ funds
£ millions 2007 2006
Profit/(loss) for the financial year attributable to the members of Kingfisher plc 709.3 (75.7)
Ordinary dividends on equity shares (248.4) (247.4)
460.9 (323.1)
Impact on first time adoption of FRS 26 – (8.5)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit pension scheme (note 9) 2.0 (1.2)
Shares issued to satisfy share option scheme exercises 10.8 9.9
Share-based compensation charge 3.6 3.1
Share-based compensation – shares awarded – (0.6)
ESOP shares disposed 7.1 2.6
Tax on items recognised directly in equity (0.6) 0.4
Net increase/(decrease) in equity shareholders’ funds 483.8 (317.4)
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 6,121.4 6,438.8
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 6,605.2 6,121.4
13 Share options 
All grants of options are made by the Remuneration Committee, which consists solely of independent non-executive directors.
Group employees, including directors, are granted contingent share awards under the Kingfisher Incentive Share Scheme as part of their annual
performance award. 
During the year the Group made its first contingent share awards under the Performance Share Plan and the Kingfisher Retention Plan. 
The last grant of options under the Executive, International Executive and Phantom Share Option Schemes was made in April 2003. Under these
Schemes, participants received a bi-annual grant of options based on their position in the Group. These options are normally exercisable from the third
anniversary of the date of the grant (up to the tenth anniversary), except where the performance condition has not been met, in which case this date is
deferred accordingly. The performance conditions for all options have now been met, except for the grant made in April 2003. On the exercise of
Phantom Options, participants receive in cash the increase in value of the allocated number of notional shares in the Company.  100 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
13 Share options continued
All permanent employees (excluding those receiving Executive Options) were each granted options over 529 shares in both 1997 and 1998, provided that
they were employed as at 19 March 1997 and in employment on the date of grant. These options were granted under the 
Executive Share Option Scheme.
Under the UK ShareSave Scheme, eligible UK employees have been invited to enter into Inland Revenue approved savings contracts for a period of three
or five years, whereby shares may be acquired with repayments under the contract. The option price has been the average market price over three days
shortly before an offer to subscribe, discounted by 20%. Options are exercisable within a six month period from the conclusion of a three or five year period.
The International ShareSave Plan, which operates along the lines of the UK ShareSave Scheme, includes eligible employees in certain overseas locations.
There are 11,826 employees in ShareSave Schemes, of which 71 are in the International Plan at 3 February 2007.
The rules of all schemes include provision for the early exercise of options in certain circumstances. In total 15 executive directors and members of senior
management held various options as at 3 February 2007.
The Company has not repeated the disclosures required by FRS 20 as these are already included in note 32 of the Kingfisher plc consolidated financial
statements.
Options to subscribe for ordinary shares of 15
5
⁄7p under the various schemes, including those held by executive directors disclosed in the Remuneration
report on pages 43 to 51, are shown below:
2007 2006
Date of Exercise Exercisable Options Options
grant price from
£ Number Number
Executive, International Executive 01/05/96 2.20 01/05/99 – 106,028
and Phantom Share Options 25/10/96 2.42 25/10/99 – 17,958
25/10/96 2.38 25/10/01 – 571,304
16/04/97 2.48 16/04/00
1
277,433 432,243
23/10/97 3.06 23/10/00 46,111 65,058
23/10/97 3.01 23/10/02 – 423,693
27/04/98 4.15 27/04/04
1
453,476 598,227
26/10/98 3.96 26/10/04 80,325 80,335
26/10/98 3.89 26/10/04 – 151,142
01/04/99 5.90 01/04/04
1
401,332 487,967
26/05/99 6.08 26/05/04
1
6,105 6,105
28/09/99 4.83 28/09/04
1
41,922 52,510
17/04/00 3.93 17/04/04
1
1,161,972 1,399,755
17/04/00 3.87 17/04/05
1
– 657,073
25/04/00 4.23 25/04/04
1
– 17,372
25/09/00 3.57 25/09/04
1
513,200 598,275
26/09/01 2.10 26/09/04
1
784,733 879,101
26/09/01 2.07 26/09/05
1
483,062 1,763,498
09/04/02 2.90 09/04/05
1
2,035,854 2,558,164
09/04/02 2.86 09/04/06
1
711,676 711,676
08/10/02 1.95 08/10/05
1
1,990,475 3,985,816
08/10/02 1.95 08/10/06 1,015,613 1,662,846
17/04/03 2.38 17/04/06
1
4,595,927 5,812,214
17/04/03 2.38 17/04/07 1,563,890 1,993,817
16,163,106 25,032,177
Kingfisher Incentive Share Scheme 05/04/04 – 05/04/07 1,357,110 1,711,021 
05/04/04 – 05/04/07 11,979 25,752 
28/04/04 – 28/04/07 358,459 457,753 
28/04/04 – 28/04/07 88,579 88,579 
06/04/05 – 06/04/08 1,242,183 1,406,485 
06/04/05 – 06/04/08 341,536 572,056 
10/04/06 – 10/04/09 1,133,129 –
10/04/06 – 10/04/09 203,624 –
4,736,599 4,261,646
Performance Share Plan 28/06/06 – 28/06/09 1,402,253 –
24/10/06 – 24/10/09 1,293,289 –
2,695,542 – Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 101
13 Share options continued
2007 2006
Date of Exercise Exercisable Options Options
grant price from
£ Number Number
Kingfisher Retention Plan 16/03/06 – 30/03/07 1,069,500 –
16/03/06 – 30/03/08 900,500 –
28/06/06 – 28/06/08 169,000 –
2,139,000 –
All-employee 16/04/97 2.48 16/04/00 860,683 913,583
21/07/98 3.75 21/07/01 3,222,668 3,378,723
4,083,351 4,292,306
UK and International ShareSave 16/05/00 3.23 01/07/03
1
– 6,628
16/05/00 3.84 01/07/05 – 74,044
24/10/00 2.76 01/12/05 – 245,912
24/10/00 2.88 01/12/05 – 50,670
23/10/01 1.71 01/12/06
1
399,779 3,140,559
23/10/01 2.32 01/12/05 – 197,967
02/05/02 2.33 01/07/05
1
– 17,948
02/05/02 2.33 01/07/07
1
345,302 424,383
02/05/02 2.74 01/07/06 – 28,780
31/10/02 1.57 01/12/05
1
– 631,765
31/10/02 1.57 01/12/07
1
3,335,182 3,722,272
31/10/02 2.02 01/12/06 19,051 91,957
01/05/03 1.87 01/07/06 2,017 1,433,121
01/05/03 1.87 01/07/08 939,824 1,129,098
01/05/03 2.28 01/07/07 27,088 29,793
22/10/04 2.45 01/12/07 1,140,838 1,543,559
22/10/04 2.45 01/12/09 1,018,439 1,423,684
27/10/05 1.76 01/12/08 2,911,589 3,575,531
27/10/05 1.76 01/12/10 1,536,704 1,893,694
26/10/06 1.97 01/12/09 3,091,248 –
26/10/06 1.97 01/12/11 1,976,930 –
16,743,991 19,661,365
46,561,589 53,247,494 
The Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust (ESOP)
The ESOP is a discretionary trust which has been funded by a £113.5m interest free loan from the Company and its subsidiaries to acquire shares in
Kingfisher plc.
The ESOP’s shareholding on 3 February 2007 was 21.0m shares (2006: 24.5m shares) with a nominal value of £3.3m (2006: £3.8m) and a market value
of £52.9m on 3 February 2007. Dividends on these shares were waived for the interim and final dividends. The cost of running the ESOP is included in
the profit and loss account. 
In total 6,108,670 shares (2006: 8,733,672 shares) are specifically hedged in relation to option grants under the various schemes and 647,788 shares
(2006: 647,788 shares) are allocated to hedge employers NIC liabilities.
The ESOP has undertaken:
(a) to transfer shares to employees on exercise of certain options granted under the Executive and International Executive Share Option Schemes;
(b) to pay the cash sum due on exercise of rights granted under the Phantom Share Option Scheme (the ESOP will realise the due sum if necessary 
by selling in the market sufficient of its shares to realise that sum);
(c) to transfer the shares due on exercise of the Share Appreciation Rights granted to overseas employees under the International ShareSave Plan; and
(d) to hedge employers NIC liabilities in relation to certain options granted under the Executive Share Option Schemes.
As required by UITF 38, own shares held by the ESOP are deducted from equity shareholders’ funds and the shares will be held at historical cost 
until they are sold. The assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOP continue to be included in both the Company’s and the consolidated 
financial statements.
1
Shares are held by the Employee Share Ownership
Plan Trust (ESOP) to cover certain exercises of 
these options. 102 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Kingfisher plc
We have audited the Parent company
financial statements of Kingfisher plc for
the year ended 3 February 2007 which
comprise the Balance sheet and the
related notes. These Parent company
financial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out
therein. We have also audited the
information in the Remuneration report
that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on 
the Group financial statements of
Kingfisher plc for the year ended 
3 February 2007.
Respective responsibilities 
of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing
the annual report, the Remuneration 
report and the Parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable
law and United Kingdom Accounting
Standards (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice), are set 
out in the Directors’ responsibilities
statement.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent
company financial statements and the part
of the Remuneration report to be audited
in accordance with relevant legal and
regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
This report, including the opinion, has
been prepared for and only for the
company’s members as a body
in accordance with Section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion,
accept or assume responsibility for any
other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose
hands it may come save where expressly
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to
whether the Parent company financial
statements give a true and fair view and
whether the Parent company financial
statements and the part of the
Remuneration report to be audited have
been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985. We also
report to you whether in our opinion the
information given in the Directors’ report 
is consistent with the Parent company
financial statements. 
The information given in the Directors’
report includes that specific information
presented in the Operating review and 
the Financial review that is cross referred
from the business review section of the 
Directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in 
our opinion, the company has not kept
proper accounting records, if we have 
not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or 
if information specified by law regarding
directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained
in the annual report and consider whether
it is consistent with the audited Parent
company financial statements. The other
information comprises only the Chairman’s
statement, the Chief Executive’s review,
the Operating review, the Financial review,
the Directors’ report, the Directors’
responsibilities statement, the Corporate
Governance report, the Audit Committee
report and the Nomination Committee
report. We consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the Parent company
financial statements. Our responsibilities
do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance
with International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence
relevant to the amounts and disclosures
in the Parent company financial statements
and the part of the Remuneration report to
be audited. It also includes an assessment
of the significant estimates and judgments
made by the directors in the preparation
of the Parent company financial
statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the
company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit
so as to obtain all the information and
explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Parent company
financial statements and the part of
Remuneration report to be audited are 
free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or
error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the
presentation of information in the Parent
company financial statements and the part
of the Remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Parent company financial statements
give a true and fair view, in accordance
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the
company’s affairs as at 3 February 2007;
• the Parent company financial statements
and the part of the Remuneration report 
to be audited have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act
1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’
report is consistent with the Parent
company financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and 
Registered Auditors
London 
28 March 2007 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 103
Kingfisher plc five year history
The amounts disclosed for 2004 and earlier periods are stated on the basis of UK GAAP because it is not practicable to restate
amounts for periods prior to the date of transition to IFRS. The principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS impacting the Group
are the treatment of goodwill, post employment benefits, deferred and current taxes, accounting for share-based payments, leases and
the valuation of properties. 
The Group has undergone a significant amount of restructuring including the buy-out of the Castorama minority in 2002/03 and the
demerger of Kesa Electricals in 2003/04. This restructuring also included a rights issue and two share consolidations. The income
statement information presented below represents continuing operations only. As the financial information would not be directly
comparable, no balance sheet or share information has been included in the five year history for 2003. 
UK GAAP IFRS
Income statements
£ millions 2003 2004 2005 2005 2006 2007
Revenue
Home improvement 6,130.4 7,037.6 7,649.6 7,649.6 8,010.1 8,675.9
Property 5.9 6.7 6.0 – – –
Total revenue 6,136.3 7,044.3 7,655.6 7,649.6 8,010.1 8,675.9
Retail profit 549.8 670.5 747.9 740.2 533.1 503.7
Other operating costs (52.8) (46.2) (36.1) (37.3) (37.8) (39.1)
Exceptional items (22.0) (11.6) – (13.7) (215.4) 49.5
Acquisition goodwill and intangible amortisation (6.2) (4.0) 1.0 – (0.1) (0.3)
Share of joint venture and associate interest and tax
1
– – – (12.8) (10.3) (12.5)
Operating profit 468.8 608.7 712.8 676.4 269.5 501.3
Profit/(loss) on disposal of fixed assets
2
144.2 (4.3) 1.1 – – –
Profit before net finance costs 613.0 604.4 713.9 676.4 269.5 501.3
Net finance costs (12.4) (33.6) (25.3) (28.7) (37.7) (50.8)
Profit before taxation 600.6 570.8 688.6 647.7 231.8 450.5
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (excluding exceptional tax) (201.8) (182.5) (201.4) (201.2) (161.6) (119.4)
Exceptional tax – 75.2 – – 68.8 7.3
Profit after taxation 398.8 463.5 487.2 446.5 139.0 338.4
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic 17.7 20.3 20.3 19.3 6.0 14.4
Fully diluted 17.4 20.2 20.2 19.2 6.0 14.4
Basic adjusted
3
13.4 17.8 20.8 19.7 12.3 11.9
Fully diluted adjusted
3
13.2 17.7 20.6 19.5 12.2 11.8
Dividend per share (pence) 9.65 10.65 10.65 10.65 10.65
Balance sheets
£ millions 2004 2005 2005 2006 2007
Intangible assets 2,455.3 2,463.1 2,533.0 2,660.5 2,641.0
Property 2,213.3 2,442.8 2,289.7 2,439.6 2,315.7
Other tangible assets 567.9 827.9 760.8 840.7 924.2
Investments 145.9 158.3 173.7 185.0 184.9
Total fixed assets 5,382.4 5,892.1 5,757.2 6,125.8 6,065.8
Net current (liabilities)/assets (92.9) (136.6) (28.9) 72.1 (50.5)
Net non-current liabilities (39.1) (37.0) (499.9) (522.3) (300.5)
Capital employed 5,250.4 5,718.5 5,228.4 5,675.6 5,714.8
Equity shareholders’ funds 4,403.7 4,921.5 4,384.6 4,311.0 4,414.5
Minority interests 2.9 2.7 2.7 9.4 6.5
Net debt 843.8 794.3 841.1 1,355.2 1,293.8
Capital employed 5,250.4 5,718.5 5,228.4 5,675.6 5,714.8
Share data
millions
Number of shares in issue – period end 2,331.4 2,348.0 2,348.0 2,353.3 2,359.0
– average 2,277.4 2,307.5 2,307.5 2,324.7 2,333.0
Fully diluted average number of shares 2,290.4 2,324.4 2,324.4 2,334.7 2,343.8
Share price
High 293p 317p 317p 312p 273p
Low 188p 271p 271p 201p 219p
Average 261p 294p 294p 251p 239p
1
Share of joint venture and associate interest and tax
is not included in operating profit under UK GAAP.
2
Under IFRS, profits/losses on disposal of fixed
assets are included in operating profIt within
exceptional items.
3
Before exceptional items, acquisition goodwill
amortisation (UK GAAP only), acquisition intangible
amortisation (IFRS only) and financing fair value
remeasurements (IFRS only). 104 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Results and financial diary
First quarter results 31 May 2007
Pre-close first half sales 26 July 2007
Interim results September 2007
Third quarter results November 2007
Fourth quarter sales February 2008
Preliminary results March 2008
Annual General Meeting
Thursday 31 May 2007 at 10.30am at
The Hilton London Paddington Hotel, 146
Praed Street, London W2 1EE.
Company Secretary and Registered
Office
Helen Jones
Kingfisher plc
3 Sheldon Square
Paddington
London
W2 6PX
Tel: 020 7372 8008
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH
Shareholder Helpline
The Shareholder Helpline is run by
Kingfisher’s Registrar, Computershare
Investor Services PLC, and is available on
UK business days between Monday and
Friday, 8.30am to 5.00pm. The helpline
also offers an automated self-service
functionality which is available 24 hours
a day, 7 days a week. Using your
Shareholder Reference Number, which is
on your share certificate or dividend tax
voucher, the self-service functionality will
allow shareholders to:
• Confirm the latest share price;
• Confirm current share holding balance;
• Confirm payment history;
• Order a Change of Address, Dividend
Bank Mandate or Stock Transfer Form.
The number to call is 0870 702 0129.
Registrar’s Investor Centre
Investor Centre is a free, secure share
management website provided by
Kingfisher’s Registrars. Managing your
shares online means you can access
information quickly, securely and minimise
postal communications. This service will
allow you to:
• View your share portfolio and see the
latest market price of your shares;
• Elect to receive your shareholder
communications online;
• Calculate the total market price of each
shareholding;
• View price histories and trading graphs;
• Update bank mandates and change
address details;
• Use online dealing services.
To take advantage of this service, please go
to www-uk.computershare.com/investor
and enter your Shareholder Reference
Number and Company Code. This
information can be found on the last
dividend voucher or your share certificate.
Global Payments Service
This service provided by Kingfisher’s
Registrar enables shareholders to have
dividend payments paid directly into their
bank account in their chosen local
currency. To view terms and register,
please visit:
www.computershare.com/uk/investor/GPS
Protecting your investment
Kingfisher is legally obliged to make its
share register available to the general public.
Consequently some shareholders may
receive unsolicited mail, including
correspondence from unauthorised
investment companies.
Over the last year a number of
companies have become aware that their
shareholders have received unsolicited
phone calls or correspondence concerning
investment matters. These are typically
from overseas-based brokers who target
UK shareholders offering to sell what often
turn out to be worthless or high risk shares
in US or UK investments. They can be
very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary
of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy
shares at a discount or offers of free
company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment
advice:
• Make sure you get the correct name of the
person and organisation;
• Check that they are properly authorised by
the FSA before getting involved. You can
check at www.fsa.gov.uk/register;
• The FSA also maintains on its website a
list of unauthorised overseas firms who are
targeting, or have targeted, UK investors
and any approach from such organisations
should be reported to the FSA so that this
list can be kept up to date and any other
appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you
would not be eligible to receive payment
under the Financial Services Compensation
Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by
completing an online form at www.fsa.gov.uk;
• Inform our Registrars on 0870 702 0129.
Details of any share dealing facilities that
the Company endorses will be included in
Company mailings.
Shareholder information
Analysis of Share Register Categories as at 3 February 2007 Holdings % Shares %
Individuals 28,853 87.83% 53,909,554 2.29%
Bank or Nominees 3,626 11.04% 2,160,632,848 91.59%
Investment Trust 36 0.11% 168,657 0.01%
Insurance Company 23 0.07% 497,720 0.02%
Other Company 280 0.85% 138,527,342 5.87%
Pension Trust 14 0.04% 226,378 0.01%
Other Corporate Body 19 0.06% 5,055,631 0.21%
Total 32,851 100.00% 2,359,018,130 100.00% Tips on protecting your shareholding
• Ensure all your certificates are kept in a
safe place, or hold your shares
electronically in CREST via a nominee; 
• Keep all correspondence from the
Registrars which shows your shareholder
reference number in a safe place, or
destroy correspondence by shredding; 
• If you change address, inform the
Registrars. If you receive a letter from the
Registrars regarding a change of address
and you have not recently moved, please
contact them immediately; 
• Know when the dividends are paid and
consider having your dividends paid
directly into your bank (you will need to fill
out a dividend mandate form and send it
to the Registrars), thus reducing the risk of
the cheque being intercepted or lost in the
post. If you change your bank account,
inform the Registrars of the details of your
new account. Respond to any letters the
Registrars send to you about this;
• If you are buying or selling shares, only
deal with brokers registered in the UK or in
your country of residence. 
Change of Address and Bank Mandate
Security 
Kingfisher’s Registrar, Computershare
Investor Services PLC, will not register
a change of address or change of Bank
Mandate instruction unless in writing and
signed by the shareholder. They will take
any other measures they feel reasonable
to protect shareholders from fraudsters.
Low Cost Share Dealing Facilities
Shareholders now have the opportunity to
buy or sell Kingfisher shares by telephone
or online using a low cost share dealing
facility operated by Kingfisher’s Registrar,
Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Telephone: Commission is 1%, subject to
a minimum charge of £15 but stamp duty
at 0.5% is payable on purchases. The
service is available from 8am to 4.30pm
Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
Telephone: 0870 703 0084
Internet: Commission is 0.5%, subject to
a minimum charge of £15 but stamp duty
at 0.5% is payable on purchases.
The service is available to place orders 
out of market hours. Simply go to 
www-uk.computershare.com.
Copies of the terms and conditions of
both of these services can be obtained by
calling 0870 702 0129. 
Kingfisher Individual Savings
Accounts (ISAS)
Kingfisher ISA Manager, Halifax Share
Dealing Limited.
Telephone: 0870 600 9966.
Dividend
Shareholders can elect for dividends to be
paid by mandate directly to a UK bank or
building society account through the
BACSTEL-IP (Bankers’ Automated
Clearing Services) system. For the benefit
of shareholders resident in any of the
eurozone countries, the Company offers
the option to receive dividends in euro.
The Company also offers shareholders
a Dividend Reinvestment Plan. For further
details, or any queries about the
administration of your shareholding, please
contact the Company’s Registrar by
phone, at the address shown or online at
www-uk.computershare.com.
Electronic Communications/Electronic
Proxy Voting
Kingfisher actively encourages all
shareholders to register for the electronic
communications service through the
eTree™ campaign run by the Registrars
and in conjunction with The Woodland
Trust. When you register for electronic
communications, a tree will be planted
on your behalf with the Woodland Trust’s
‘Tree For All’ scheme in a UK area
selected for reforestation. This service
enables you to save paper, contribute to
a greener countryside, and reduce harmful
carbon dioxide emissions which impact
climate change. 
By registering with eTree™, you will be
able to:
• Cast your AGM/EGM proxy vote
electronically;
• Access details of your individual
shareholding quickly and securely online;
• Receive electronic notification via email
and the internet of statutory documents
such as the Company’s financial results,
including annual and interim reports and
quarterly trading statements.
You can register by visiting
www.kingfisher.com/shareholders or
www.etreeuk.com and follow the online
instructions.
As at March 2007, over 3,300 shareholders
have registered for the service which has
contributed to the planting of an acre of
woodland in the last three years. More
information about the programme can be
obtained by visiting www.etreeuk.com.
For information about the Woodland
Trust’s ‘Tree For All’ scheme please go
to www.treeforall.org.uk.
CREST Electronic Proxy Voting
The Company will be accepting proxy
votes through the CREST Electronic Proxy
Voting system.
FSC Trademark © 1996 Forest Stewardship Council A.C.
FSC – GBR – 795
Designed by Tor Pettersen & Partners (020 7432 6100).
Printed in England by St Ives Westerham Press on Revive
Special Silk. This paper is made using a mixture of
recycled pulps, fibre from FSC certified forests and fibre
from other controlled sources.
At B&Q UK around 75% of all timber product
lines are Forest Stewardship Council certified. Strengthening
B&Q and Castorama’s strong leadership positions in the UK and France.
Expanding
proven growth businesses.
Establishing
new opportunities for growth.
Capitalising
on buying scale and international diversity.
Four strategic priorities 
Kingfisher plc
3 Sheldon Square, Paddington
London W2 6PX
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7372 8008
www.kingfisher.com
