 The Laird Group PLC
100 Pall Mall
London SW1Y 5NQ
020 7468 4040
www.laird-plc.com
2006
Annual Report and Accounts
The Laird Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
The Laird Group PLC
MAC_RF62897_1_COV_SPR.indd   1 MAC_RF62897_1_COV_SPR.indd   1 30/3/07   18:41:18 30/3/07   18:41:18 The Laird Group PLC i
01 Financial highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
03 Chief Executive’s review
18 Finance Director’s report
20 Board of Directors
22 Directors’ report
26 Corporate governance report
29 Corporate social responsibility 
32 Directors’ remuneration report
39 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
40 Independent auditors’ report – Group IFRS
41 Group income statement
42 Statement of recognised income and expense
43 Group balance sheet
44 Group cash ﬂ ow statement
45 Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
45 Accounting policies
84 Principal subsidiaries
85 Five year summary
86 Shareholder information
87 Parent company accounts
88 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
89 Independent auditors’ report – Company UK GAAP
90 Parent company balance sheet
91 Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements of parent company
Contents The Laird Group PLC    1
   2006 2005
   £m £m
Revenue 
- Continuing operations 608.3 490.3
- Discontinued operations – 18.4
   608.3 508.7
Underlying proﬁ t before tax
(i)
 73.3 55.1
Proﬁ t before tax from continuing operations 66.4 34.3
Trading cash ﬂ ow 50.9 34.0
Net borrowings 109.1 148.1
Shareholders’ funds 408.7 284.3
   p/share* p/share*
Underlying earnings
(i)
 31.7 27.3
Basic earnings from continuing operations 26.5 15.1
Dividend 10.3 9.56
(i)  Laird uses underlying results as key performance indicators. Underlying proﬁ t before tax and underlying earnings per share are stated before 
exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss on 
disposal of businesses and the impact arising from the fair valuing of ﬁ nancial instruments. The narrative that follows is based on underlying 
operating proﬁ t, underlying proﬁ t before tax and underlying earnings per share, as the directors believe that these provide a more consistent 
measure of operating performance.
*  The average number of shares in issue was 189.2 million in 2006 and 157.9 million in 2005. The 2005 earnings and dividend per share have 
been adjusted for the bonus element of the 4 for 17 Rights Issue in 2006.
The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006 contains the Directors’ report on pages 2-38.
Delivering 
continued Growth
Financial highlights
+24%
+20%
+33%
+94%
+16%
+75%
+50%
 +8% The Laird Group PLC 2
Overview
Laird today is a higher growth, increasingly 
proﬁ table company which remains driven 
by the overriding objective of creating and 
growing shareholder value. 2006 saw 
an acceleration of the momentum Laird 
has established in recent years. Further 
progress has been made against our 
strategic objectives of focusing on higher 
growth markets, obtaining a competitive 
edge through technology and customer 
service, allied to a well established and 
expanding low cost manufacturing base.
Delivery of Proﬁ table Growth
2006 saw further good progress made by 
the Group. We strengthened and developed 
both our market leading divisions, Laird 
T echnologies and Laird Security Systems, 
during the year and have again delivered 
positive organic revenue growth together 
with good growth in underlying proﬁ ts and 
earnings. Group underlying proﬁ ts before tax 
were £73.3 million in 2006, up 33% on the 
£55.1 million reported in 2005.  Earnings per 
share on a similar basis were 31.7 pence, up 
16% on the 27.3 pence in 2005. 
Continuing Dividend Growth
The Board’s dividend policy is to increase 
returns to shareholders progressively 
over time, reﬂ ecting both the underlying 
proﬁ tability of the Group and the cash 
requirements of the business. The 
Board is recommending a ﬁ nal dividend 
of 6.95 pence per share, payable 
to shareholders in respect of their 
shareholdings recorded on the register as 
at 25 May 2007, subject to approval at 
the 2007 Annual General Meeting. This 
represents a total dividend for the year 
of 10.3 pence per share, compared with 
9.56 pence per share for 2005 (restated 
for the bonus element of the Rights Issue), 
and represents an increase year-on-year 
of 8%.
Board Development
Geoff Drabble, an Executive Director of 
The Laird Group and Managing Director 
of Laird Security Systems, left the Group 
at the end of September to become Chief 
Executive of another UK public company.
The Board made two appointments in 
2006; Professor Michael Kelly joined as 
a non-executive director on 1 July 2006 
and later in the year Sir Christopher 
Hum, KCMG, was also appointed a 
non-executive director. With these two 
appointments, the Board is well equipped 
to oversee the Group’s continued growth 
and development.
Sir Geoffrey Owen and John McDowall, 
OBE, both retired as non-executive 
directors at the end of the year. 
John McDowall has been succeeded as 
Senior Independent non-executive director 
by Anthony Reading, MBE. As Chairman, 
I would like to thank Geoffrey and John for 
their valuable service over many years 
and their extensive contribution both to 
the Board and to the development of 
The Laird Group.
Our Employees
2006’s achievements would not have been 
possible were it not for the hard work 
and determination of our 11,500 strong 
international team. Their loyal commitment 
and enthusiasm is an extremely valuable 
asset in realising the Group’s strategy 
and continuing its successful growth, 
and to each of them I extend the Board’s 
wholehearted thanks.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Board recognises the need for Group 
businesses to behave ethically and 
responsibly in the different locations and 
environments in which they operate and 
the Board is, therefore, committed to a 
Chairman’ s statement
programme of continuous improvement 
in all areas of its corporate responsibility. 
2006 was another year of progress in our 
overall performance in the areas of health, 
safety and environmental stewardship.  
The Group successfully completed its 
programme of ISO 14001 accreditation 
for all manufacturing businesses, 
with the exception of certain recent 
acquisitions, which are targeted to achieve 
accreditation during 2007. In addition, 
ten ISO 14001 accredited manufacturing 
sites successfully integrated the British 
Standards Occupational health and safety 
speciﬁ cation, OHSAS 18001, providing an 
integrated Health, Safety & Environmental 
management system. The Group aims 
to complete this integration across the 
remaining ISO 14001 registered sites in 
2007. A review of the Group’s policies and 
performance in this key area is to be found 
in the Corporate Social Responsibility 
section of this Report.
Maintaining the Momentum of the 
Group
Laird had another excellent year in 2006, 
again delivering good growth in revenue 
and underlying proﬁ t. The strategic 
decisions which were made to continue 
to focus the Group, together with the 
investments that have been made to 
strengthen and develop it and to broaden 
its product and market spread, have again 
allowed Laird to progress strongly. We 
will continue to implement this strategy, 
and we are conﬁ dent that Laird will make 
further good progress in 2007.
Nigel Keen The Laird Group PLC    3
Strategy
Over recent years Laird has been 
transformed from a diversiﬁ ed industrial 
conglomerate into a higher growth, 
increasingly proﬁ table company. We 
have established a successful strategy 
of focusing on high growth markets, 
obtaining a competitive edge through 
technology and customer service allied 
to a well established, and still expanding, 
low cost manufacturing base in East 
Asia, India, Mexico and Central Europe. 
We operate in specialist markets that 
provide opportunities for growth, with a 
global reach that provides advantages 
compared to many of our more regional 
or local competitors. We have expanded, 
and intend to continue to expand, our 
technology, market access, product 
offering and geographic spread, both 
organically and through acquisitions, 
as lower growth businesses have been 
divested. The Laird strategy is one driven 
by the overarching objective of creating 
and growing shareholder value. 
Delivery of Proﬁ table Growth 
Group revenue in 2006 was £608.3 million, 
up 24% on the £490.3 million of 
continuing revenue in 2005, with organic 
revenue growth for the Group, one of 
our key performance indicators (“KPIs”), 
of 11%.
Underlying proﬁ t before tax was a record 
£73.3 million in 2006, 33% higher than the 
£55.1 million in 2005, with the increase 
coming entirely from Laird Technologies. 
The Group’s underlying operating proﬁ t 
margin in the year, another of our KPIs, 
increased to 13.7%, from 12.9% in 2005 
as a result of organic growth, a greater 
proportion of manufacturing from low cost 
countries and the portfolio repositioning.
Proﬁ t before tax from continuing 
operations after exceptional items, the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles, the 
gain or loss on disposal of businesses and 
the fair valuing of ﬁ nancial instruments, in 
2006 was £66.4 million, up 94% on the 
£34.3 million in 2005.
Underlying earnings per share in 2006 
were 31.7 pence, up 16% on the 
27.3 pence in 2005 (which have been 
restated for the bonus element of the 4 for 
17 Rights Issue in the ﬁ rst half of 2006). 
Underlying earnings per share growth, 
another of our KPIs, was 16%.
There were no exceptional costs incurred 
in the year (2005, £15.5 million). 
Net borrowings at the year end were 
£109.1 million (2005, £148.1 million), 
representing 27% of shareholders’ funds. 
Interest cover for the year was 8.4 times. 
There was a trading cash inﬂ ow in the 
year of £50.9 million (2005, £34.0 million), 
before a net cash outﬂ ow on acquisitions 
and disposals in the year of £122.1 million 
(2005, £29.1 million). The Rights Issue, 
announced on 16 March 2006, raised 
approximately £118 million.
Investing for Growth
We have established a strong track 
record of achieving organic growth and 
successfully ﬁ nding and integrating 
acquisitions. We invest for organic 
growth primarily through new product 
development, plant capacity expansions 
and new production equipment. In 2006, 
our own-funded expenditure on research 
and development was £20.9 million, 
predominantly in Laird Technologies, an 
increase of 31% over 2005. Research and 
development expenditure in 2006 as a 
percentage of sales for Laird Technologies, 
another of our KPIs, was 5%. Capital 
expenditure in 2006 was £22.9 million, 
an increase of 34% over 2005, and 
£10.4 million in excess of depreciation. We 
Chief Executive’ s review
believe that it is important to maintain or 
grow this organic growth investment, as 
one of the foundations of our success.
Acquisitions form a key part of our 
strategy. Acquisitions are made to allow us 
to expand our technology, market access, 
product offering and geographic spread. 
The acquisitions we have made have 
not only contributed signiﬁ cantly to the 
successful growth we have achieved over 
recent years in revenues and underlying 
proﬁ ts, but have also been value adding: 
of the seventeen acquisitions we have 
made between 2001 and 2005, the 
aggregate return on invested capital in 
2005, taking account of the effects of 
integrating the acquired businesses, is 
estimated to be 15%, well in excess of our 
pre-tax cost of capital. For the Group as a 
whole in 2006, return on capital employed, 
another of our KPIs, was 16.9%, up from 
15.6% in 2005.
In the ﬁ rst half of 2006 we undertook 
a 4 for 17 Rights Issue to raise 
approximately £118 million net of 
expenses, to help fund our continuing 
investment for growth. In 2006 we made 
six acquisitions, with an aggregate 
spend, including deferred elements, of 
approximately £110 million. So far in 2007 
we have made a further three acquisitions, 
with an aggregate spend of £82 million: 
details of these acquisitions are given in 
the sections on Laird Technologies and 
Laird Security Systems later in this Report.
Maintaining Progress
Laird has again made strong progress in 
2006, growing revenues and underlying 
proﬁ t. The Group will continue to be 
developed strategically, and is well 
positioned to make further progress 
in 2007. 
Peter Hill The Laird Group PLC 4
Laird T echnologies The Laird Group PLC    5 The Laird Group PLC 6
Strategic Development
Laird Technologies is a leader in the 
design and supply of customised 
performance critical products 
for wireless and other advanced 
electronics applications. From its 
origins as a supplier of electromagnetic 
interference (“EMI”) shielding products, 
in which field it grew to become 
the global market leader, Laird 
Technologies has been developed into 
a broad based business operating in 
specialist high growth markets, with 
an extensive range of proprietary and 
complementary products.
As well as being the global market 
leader in EMI shielding, Laird 
Technologies is now also the global 
leader in cellular antennae, and 
holds strong positions in a wide 
range of other markets, including 
mobile and infrastructure wireless 
antennae, thermal interface materials 
and thermoelectric coolers, 
mechanical actuation devices, 
power products, signal integrity 
components and complete radio 
modules and systems.
Laird Technologies supplies components 
and systems to the global electronics 
industries, including cellular handsets, 
telecommunications infrastructure, 
voice and data communications, asset 
tracking, satellite radio and information 
technology sectors, and also supplies 
the automotive, aerospace and defence, 
consumer electronics, medical and 
industrial markets. Laird Technologies 
now employs 9,000 people in 
35 facilities in 14 countries, including 
over 400 engineers and technologists. 
It has 390 patents issued with a further 
340 pending.
Strong growth in revenues and 
profits
In markets that remained buoyant in 
2006, Laird Technologies benefited 
particularly from the strong demand 
for its EMI shielding and antennae 
products for the cellular handset 
market, as well as for its products 
sold into the telecommunications 
infrastructure, wireless antennae, 
notebook PC and plasma display 
panel markets.
Revenue grew by some 43% in the 
year to £370.6 million, compared with 
£259.4 million in 2005, driven by a 
combination of organic revenue growth 
of 23% together with the effects of the 
acquisitions of Antenex, RecepTec, 
Supercool and Steward.
Underlying operating profit grew 
by some 47%, to £55.4 million, 
compared with £37.7 million in 2005, 
as a result of the organic revenue 
growth, the benefits of acquisitions 
and the increased levels of production 
from lower cost countries. Operating 
margins again increased, to 15%.
Underlying market growth 
maintained
The largest market for our products in 
2006 was cellular handsets, accounting 
for some 47% of revenues.  We 
supply a range of antennae and EMI 
shielding products to the major global 
OEMs, including Nokia, Motorola, 
Sony Ericsson and LG. Our first 
combination products, of EMI shielding 
and antennae, and EMI shielding 
and thermal interface materials, 
were shipped during the year. The 
worldwide cellular handset market 
experienced another year of strong 
Laird T echnologies
The Path to Growth
growth, driven by emerging markets’ 
demand, increasing functionality, and 
style. Industry commentators believe 
that global unit handset shipments 
increased by over 20% compared with 
2005, to nearly 1 billion units.
Laird Technologies saw continuing 
growth in the IT, telecommunications 
infrastructure and data transfer markets 
during the year, to Cisco and Huawei 
in particular, benefiting the sales of 
our EMI shielding, thermal interface 
and wireless antennae products. Our 
sales into the server and networking 
equipment markets remained buoyant, 
as well as into the notebook PC market 
where global unit shipments were 
estimated by industry commentators to 
be up some 25% compared with 2005. 
These markets accounted for some 
23% of 2006 revenues.
Demand for our products, particularly 
satellite radio antennae from the major 
OEM automotive manufacturers, 
grew in 2006, with new programmes 
also being awarded. We continue to 
develop new products, are devoting 
greater effort to the satellite radio 
consumer electronics market, and are 
starting to benefit from a new focus on 
intelligent transportation systems. This 
segment accounted for some 11% of 
2006 revenues.
In our other markets (including 
industrial, services, military and 
security, consumer and medical), we 
were successful in obtaining design 
wins into plasma display panels for 
Samsung, Panasonic and Hitachi, for 
manufacture in our plants in China, 
Central Europe and North America. 
Thermoelectric cooler sales, into the 
Laird T echnologies  The Laird Group PLC 8 9 The Laird Group PLC     The Laird Group PLC 10
industrial, aerospace and medical 
markets, grew strongly, as did sales 
of our wide range of communications 
antennae into the security, industrial, 
and voice and data transfer markets.
Laird Technologies’ percentage of total 
revenue from its top five customers 
was 53%.
Benefits of strategic acquisitions
Laird Technologies made four 
acquisitions in 2006. In March we 
acquired US-based Antenex, Inc., 
a leading rapid response supplier 
of wireless communications 
antennae for a variety of voice and 
data transmission applications, for 
£9.7 million. 
In March we also acquired RecepTec 
LLC for £54.7 million. RecepTec is 
a leader in the design, testing and 
supply of satellite digital radio, global 
positioning system and other specialist 
communications antennae to the North 
American and European automotive 
markets. With its wide range of other 
vehicular antennae products including 
FM/AM and Digital Audio Radio, 
Bluetooth and cellular, RecepTec has 
broadened Laird Technologies’ antennae 
portfolio for telematics applications.
In December, we acquired Steward, 
Inc. for £26.8 million. Steward, 
which has manufacturing facilities 
in Hermosillo, Mexico and Shunde, 
China, is an international leader in 
the field of ferrite-based products 
designed to ensure signal integrity 
in electronic cable and board level 
applications, and will form the nucleus 
of our focus on the Signal Integrity 
Products market. 
We also acquired Coolab AB in 
December for £8.9 million. Coolab, 
which trades under the Supercool brand, 
is a leading designer, manufacturer and 
supplier of thermoelectric modules and 
cooling systems for a wide variety of 
end use markets.  From its operations in 
Sweden and California, USA, Supercool 
provides additional technology, market 
access and resources with which Laird 
Technologies will develop the next 
generation of thermal management 
products and solutions required by 
customers.
We have continued to invest in Laird 
Technologies through acquisitions 
in 2007. In January we acquired 
AeroComm, Inc. for £19.1 million. 
AeroComm is forming the core of 
Laird Technologies’ focus on the 
high growth market in embedded 
wireless communications solutions. 
AeroComm’s unique and proprietary 
RF modules provide wireless 
communications in applications 
that previously communicated by 
cables and, combined with Laird 
Technologies’ antennae, shielding and 
signal integrity products, will allow 
the development of a full wireless 
systems capability.
In late February 2007 we acquired 
M2sys Co. Limited, for a cash 
consideration of £17.0 million, and 
Cushcraft, Inc., for £45.9 million. 
South Korea-based M2sys designs 
and manufactures custom products 
that enable mechanical actuation of 
handheld devices while maintaining 
electrical integrity and performance. 
M2sys joins Laird Technologies’ 
growing handheld products business 
and enables us to offer integrated 
designs and convergence of functions 
and components in future OEM 
electronic applications. 
US-based Cushcraft designs 
and manufactures advanced 
communications antennae and 
accessory products to provide 
highly engineered customised 
RF solutions for OEM light 
infrastructure applications in a 
variety of communications markets 
including WLAN, WiMax and 
RFID.  Cushcraft will be integrated 
into Laird Technologies’ Wireless 
Infrastructure Antennae business and 
will provide the combined customer 
base with the broad range of products 
needed to transmit and receive 
signals over an increasing spread of 
wireless protocols.
Laird T echnologies The Laird Group PLC    11
Operational and geographic 
development
Asia continues to be of increasing 
importance to Laird Technologies, 
both as a growing market and as a 
low cost manufacturing base, and now 
also as a design and development 
centre. In 2006, 52% of Laird 
Technologies’ revenue by destination 
was from Asia (2005, 50%) and 61% 
of revenue by origin (2005, 56%). At 
the end of 2006, Laird Technologies 
had approximately 9,000 employees, 
of whom 75% were in Asia, the 
majority in China.
In China, we opened three new plants 
in April: a new 35,000 square metre 
facility for EMI shielding and thermal 
products in Shenzhen; a new 23,000 
square metre facility in Beijing for 
the design, testing and production 
of wireless handset antennae, and 
a new expanded facility in Tianjin, to 
support the growth in the production 
of shielding products for the wireless 
handset market, as well as that of 
thermal and electrically conductive 
elastomer products and materials. A 
new, expanded facility in Shanghai, to 
support the increased output of board 
level shields for the wireless handset 
market, is expected to become 
operational in April 2007.
Elsewhere in Asia, our antennae design 
and assembly operations in Penang, 
Malaysia were relocated to larger 
premises in early 2007, with production 
of shielding and thermal products also 
being added to better support our 
customers in that region.  In 2006 we 
established antennae design, testing 
and assembly in Korea, initially serving 
Pantech/Curitel and LG.
In Europe, our UK and French facilities 
have been rationalised, our plants 
in the Czech Republic and Hungary 
reached record levels of production, 
and in Sweden we established a 
multi-product design and development 
centre to serve cellular handset 
customers including Nokia, Sony 
Ericsson and Sagem. 
In mid 2006 we established our first 
facility in Mexico, initially for antennae 
assembly. We expect to relocate to 
larger premises in 2007 and to initiate 
production there of a number of our 
other product lines. 
In late 2006 we secured government 
approval for the construction of a 
new facility in Chennai, India, with 
groundbreaking in the first quarter of 
2007, and with production scheduled 
to commence by year end. This 
production capacity, together with 
the associated design and application 
engineering which will be added, will 
enhance significantly our proximity and 
support to the increasing number of 
our key customers who are themselves 
establishing operations in this fast 
growing electronics market.
Technical development
During 2006 Laird Technologies 
continued to expand and develop 
its technology capabilities. New 
EMI shielding products included 
“EcoGreen™”, a fabric over foam 
product for plasma display panels, 
Recyclable Clean Copper™ 
fingerstock products for use in 
telecommunications and data transfer 
equipment and high flow “MaxAir™” 
shielded ventilation panels for military 
and telecommunications applications.
In antennae, new integrated antennae 
modules, including software controlled 
antennae were developed, to cope 
with the increasingly complex 
demands for multiple applications. 
Other new antennae products 
included “NanoAnt™”, a very small 
directional antennae for a wide variety 
of wireless applications, “Phantom 
Elite®” indoor and outdoor mobile 
antennae for use in public safety, 
utility vehicle and WiFi applications, 
a ceramic antenna for handheld and 
data devices that come equipped with 
Bluetooth WLAN and GPS capabilities, 
and “Ultrasphere™”, named “Product 
of the year” by Electronics Products 
magazine, a miniature, low profile 
multi-band omni-directional in-building 
wireless antenna.  The Laird Group PLC 12 The Laird Group PLC    13 The Laird Group PLC 14
We also launched a wideband 
mobile antenna for use in public 
safety and other communications 
applications, providing US government 
agencies with a single antenna with 
interoperability capability to exchange 
voice and data transmissions across 
multiple frequencies in the event of an 
emergency. An update of “Mercury™”, 
a GPS antenna with tri-band 
functionality, was also introduced, 
combining voice, data and locations 
communications for fleet tracking, theft 
protection and self-diagnostic systems. 
The first integrated module combining 
a cellular antenna and EMI board 
level shield was rolled out with Nokia, 
and a new antenna developed for the 
Microsoft Xbox gaming console.
A number of new thermal interface 
products were also developed, 
including specialist thermally 
conductive greases, the “T-Gard™” 
high performance insulator, and 
the first board level shield with 
an integrated thermal interface 
pad for 3G applications for 
Motorola. A breakthrough was 
achieved with the development 
and commercialisation of our new 
thermoelectric cooler embedded in 
Dell’s XPS desktop computer.
Laird T echnologies
Extending global leadership
Laird Technologies had another 
very successful year in 2006. It now 
possesses a unique combination of 
products and solutions covering a 
wide range of applications. Its ability 
to “bundle” products and exploit 
their technology convergence both 
differentiates Laird Technologies 
from many of its competitors and 
creates added value for customers. 
Its focus on increasing the content 
and “value-add” of its products, in 
customers’ devices and applications, 
provides both revenue growth for 
Laird Technologies and supply chain 
simplification for its customers. 
Its global footprint and its well 
established and still expanding low 
cost manufacturing base gives Laird 
Technologies the ability to best serve 
its main global OEM customers at 
competitive prices. As we focus 
increasingly on providing complete 
systems and solutions we believe that 
Laird Technologies is well placed to 
continue to extend further its global 
leadership positions. The Laird Group PLC    15 The Laird Group PLC 16
Innovative home improvement 
solutions
Laird Security Systems is a leader 
in the design, development, 
manufacture and distribution of 
innovative products and solutions. 
These aim to improve performance 
and thermal efficiency, and enhance 
protection and security, for homes 
and buildings within the UK and 
USA residential building and home 
improvement markets. Its wide range 
of products includes window and 
door hardware, composite doors, 
conservatories, windows, uPVC 
products and weather stripping seals.
In recent years the product range has 
been broadened and the business 
strengthened. Laird Security Systems 
sources an increasing proportion of 
its hardware products from its well 
established supply base in China, both 
from its own manufacturing facilities 
and from its partner suppliers.
Benefits of broad market spread
Laird Security Systems’ markets 
were mixed in 2006. In the UK the 
overall housing market improved 
somewhat during the second half of 
the year after a weaker first half, as 
did the renovation market, although 
the retail markets for our windows 
and conservatories remained weak. 
The UK social housing market, 
where Laird Security Systems is a 
major supplier of composite doors, 
continued its long term growth trend. 
Overall, Laird Security Systems’ total 
UK revenues returned to positive 
organic growth in the second half of 
2006, compared with the second half 
of 2005.
In the USA, the new build residential 
housing market suffered its well 
publicised downturn during the year, 
and this accelerated in the second 
half. In contrast, the replacement and 
renovation market showed greater 
stability. Total US revenues for Laird 
Security Systems, after positive 
organic growth in the first half of the 
year, showed a small organic decline 
in the second half of 2006 compared 
with the second half of 2005. 
Against this backdrop, Laird Security 
Systems demonstrated its resilience 
and delivered a very respectable 
performance in 2006, with revenue up 
3% to £237.7 million in the year (2005, 
£230.9 million). Organic revenue 
growth was slightly negative for Laird 
Security Systems as a whole, with a 
year-on-year organic decline of 4% in 
the UK and 3% in the USA.
UK revenue from continuing 
businesses in 2006 was approximately 
£125 million. Of this, 34% represented 
window hardware, 21% composite 
doors, 24% door hardware, 17% 
windows and conservatories and 
3% seals.
US revenue in 2006 was approximately 
£108 million. Of this, 53% represented 
window hardware, 15% seals, 14% 
door hardware and 17% uPVC 
extrusions.
Laird Security Systems was broadly 
able to maintain underlying profits 
despite its mixed markets and the 
increases in commodity prices. 
Underlying operating profits for 2006 
were £27.8 million, compared with 
Laird Security Systems
Support and Innovation
£28.1 million in 2005. Operating margin 
in 2006 was 12%.
Commodity prices remained volatile 
overall. Through carefully managing the 
relationship between input and output 
pricing, Laird Security Systems was 
able to contain fully the adverse effect 
of higher commodity prices in the year.
Portfolio repositioning
In March 2006 Laird Security Systems 
enhanced its growing position in the 
US building products market with the 
acquisition of Bandlock Corporation in 
California for £10.4 million. Bandlock, 
a supplier of an extensive range of 
PVC extrusions, supplements Security 
Systems’ existing extrusion business 
in the central US, while enhancing its 
critical mass on the West Coast.
March also saw the acquisition of 
Balance UK, for £3.3 million. Balance 
supplies a range of heavy duty window 
balances used in the manufacture of 
vertically sliding windows for a growing 
niche segment of the UK market. 
These heavy duty balances also 
provide the potential for Laird Security 
Systems to enter the commercial 
window market, and fill its remaining 
product gap in the US, allowing it 
to participate in the replacement 
of traditional windows with heavier, 
hurricane-proof ones along the eastern 
US seaboard.
Operational and geographic 
development
In Laird Security Systems’ UK 
window hardware and components 
businesses, a headcount reduction of 
75 took place in the first half of 2006, 
Laird Security Systems The Laird Group PLC    17
following a reduction of some 300, or 
35% of the combined total, in 2005. 
Both of these actions benefited the 
2006 results. Emphasis has now been 
switched to product development and 
new account targeting, with benefits 
expected in 2007 and 2008. At Laird 
Lifestyle Products, manufacturing 
operations were consolidated further, 
to improve efficiencies and allow a 
greater emphasis on marketing and 
product positioning. 
In the UK composite door business, 
the three sites resulting from 
acquisitions in this sector were 
consolidated into two in the first 
quarter of 2006, with a capacity 
expansion at one of the two facilities 
being completed at the end of 
the first quarter of 2006. These 
actions, together with Laird Security 
Systems’ technical capabilities and 
broad product range, should position 
the UK business to maintain its return 
to growth.
In the USA, the window hardware, 
door hardware, weather seals and 
uPVC extrusions businesses all had a 
good first half, with each product line 
showing organic growth. Although 
the revenues from these businesses 
declined year-on-year in the second 
half, action was swiftly taken to protect 
operating margins, with personnel 
reductions of 135 or 12% of the total.
The long term outlook for the US 
window and door market remains 
positive, driven by favourable 
demographics, job creation and 
mobility, and expected sustainable 
economic growth. The replacement 
cycle lags considerably that of the 
UK, implying long term growth in that 
sector. Although market conditions are 
now more competitive, Laird Security 
Systems expects to benefit from new 
product introductions, its industry 
leading levels of customer service, and 
market share gains both directly and 
through the continuing consolidation of 
its customer base.
Sales of products manufactured in 
Asia by Laird Security Systems or its 
partner suppliers grew by over 40% in 
2006, on top of an increase of 15% in 
2005. 30% of Laird Security Systems’ 
hardware sales in 2006 were sourced 
from Asia, compared with 22% in 
2005. Its own facilities in Ningbo, 
China, were expanded during the year, 
while sourcing from partner suppliers 
also grew; these suppliers are 
integrated into Laird Security Systems’ 
supply chain, which provides them 
with engineering expertise, specialised 
investment and quality control.
Innovation
Laird Security Systems maintained 
its focus on product innovation 
and development, and continued 
to develop its intellectual property 
portfolio. There were benefits in 
2006 from the Springback sealing 
product range introduced during 
2005, innovative new window balance 
designs, and an increasing range 
of multipoint locks. A new door seal 
product has been developed for the 
US market, as has its first ever range 
of casement window hardware, a 
significant US market segment where 
Laird Security Systems currently has 
minimal sales. In the UK, the composite 
doors business will be launching a new 
glass-reinforced-plastic faced door in 
2007, replacing its current product with 
one which has lower production costs 
but with a higher specification. Laird 
Security Systems continues with its 
product innovation and new designs, 
both to differentiate itself from its 
competitors and to provide enhanced 
functionality for its customers.
Laird Security Systems is targeting 
its product development to take 
advantage of three macro trends which 
it sees emerging over the next few 
years. The first is more demanding 
construction standards in North 
America, to reduce hurricane damage. 
The second is higher security allied 
to ease of use, including electronic 
access controls, which is seen to be 
particularly applicable as demographic 
trends move towards an increasingly 
ageing population. The third is the 
expected trend towards even greater 
insulation and thermal efficiency, as 
governments and consumers adjust to 
higher energy prices.
Development of the strategy
Laird Security Systems has continued 
to provide innovative local solutions 
to its customers allied to what are 
believed to be industry leading service 
levels on a global basis, underpinned 
by the ongoing expansion of the low 
cost engineering and manufacturing 
capability in Asia. Although the year-
on-year market decline in 2007 in 
the US may not be fully offset by the 
better conditions expected in the 
UK, within the division there is now a 
much broader presence in a range of 
markets, products and sales channels, 
which should provide considerable 
resilience during 2007. The Laird Group PLC 18
Revenue 
Total revenue increased from 
£508.7 million to £608.3 million in 
2006. Revenue from continuing 
operations increased by 24%. There 
was no revenue from discontinued 
operations in 2006.
Revenue from discontinued operations 
in 2005 was £18.4 million; Permacell 
Finesse was divested in September 2005. 
Organic growth from continuing 
operations was 11% and is measured 
by restating 2006 revenue at 2005 
exchange rates and comparing it to 
revenue in 2005 after including revenue 
in 2005 for the acquired businesses 
in the equivalent period not in our 
ownership. On this basis, revenue from 
acquired businesses was £58.0 million 
in 2006 (2005, £107.0 million). 
Profit before tax 
Profit before tax, from continuing 
operations, was £66.4 million 
(2005, £34.3 million). The profit 
from discontinued operations was 
£0.5 million (2005, loss £5.1 million). 
Underlying profit before tax in the year 
was £73.3 million (2005, £55.1 million). 
Underlying profit is defined as 
profit before tax, exceptional items, 
amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets, the gain or loss on sale of 
businesses and the impact arising from 
the fair valuing of financial instruments, 
as set out in note 14. 
There were no exceptional costs in 
2006 (2005, £15.5 million). Integration of 
the acquisitions completed at the end of 
2006 together with those completed so 
far in 2007 , are likely to result in some 
exceptional costs in 2007 .
Finance costs 
Finance costs, excluding a fair value 
adjustment gain of £0.2 million (2005, 
loss of £1.1 million) were £9.9 million 
compared to the £10.5 million in 2005. 
Interest cover was 8.4 times, well 
above the minimum of 2.5 required 
by the lending group’s principal loan 
agreement covenants. 
Taxation 
The underlying tax charge on 
underlying profit before tax is 
equivalent to an average tax rate of 
18.1% and is marginally higher than the 
17.3% for 2005. Profits in the USA are 
subject to a relatively low charge and 
should remain so for many years in part 
due to tax deductions for amortised 
goodwill resulting from acquisitions. A 
growing proportion of profits are also 
from jurisdictions with low tax rates or 
with tax incentives. An analysis of the 
total tax charge is given in note 11.
Underlying Earnings 
Underlying profit before tax was 33% 
up on 2005 and underlying earnings 
per share were up by 16% (note 14) 
with more shares in issue in 2006 
following the 4 for 17 Rights Issue 
completed in April 2006. Underlying 
earnings are based on underlying 
profit less underlying tax and exclude 
deferred tax on acquired intangible 
assets and goodwill.
Cash flow 
There was a healthy trading cash flow 
surplus of £50.9 million in the year. 
Analysis of cash flow 
 £m
Operating profit – continuing  83.2
– discontinued  –
Depreciation/asset disposal 
 gain (£0.3 million) 12.5
Other non cash  (0.9)
 
 94.8
Increase in working capital* (11.3)
Capital expenditure less
 disposals (£3.4 million) (19.5)
Finance costs  (9.7)
Taxation  (3.4)
 
Trading cash flow surplus  50.9
Dividends  (19.4)
Net cost of acquisitions 
 and disposals  (122.1)
Exceptional costs  (0.5)
Pension contributions 
 above the normal level  (2.2)
Share issues 117.8
Exchange translation 
 movement  14.5
 
Reduction in net borrowings  39.0
 
* after adjusting for outflows on exceptional 
items of £0.5 million in 2006.
Finance Director’ s report
Jonathan Silver The Laird Group PLC    19
There was a rise in working capital due 
in part to higher levels of activity but 
also due to an increasing proportion of 
the Group’s revenues generated in Asia 
where terms of payment are longer. 
Capital expenditure of £22.9 million 
was £10.4 million in excess of 
depreciation largely due to expansions 
in capacity to meet demand, with 
much of the excess occurring in 
Asia, and in particular in new plants 
supplying products to the Group’s 
customers in China. 
Cash tax payments were lower than 
the tax charge due largely to tax 
repayments in respect of previous 
years. Trading cash flow was 61% of 
operating profit before interest and tax. 
Overall, there was a £39.0 million 
reduction in net borrowings as the 
trading cash surplus together with 
the proceeds from the rights issue 
more than offset dividend payments 
and the net spend on acquisitions 
and disposals. Net borrowings were 
also lower as a result of translation 
movements of £14.5 million on foreign 
currency loans, largely due to those 
denominated in US dollars.
Net borrowings and debt facilities 
Net borrowings at the end of 
December 2006 were £109.1 million, 
26% of shareholders’ funds. Taking 
into account the acquisitions, net 
borrowings were 0.9 times earnings 
before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation, 25% of the maximum 
permitted of 3.5 times by the Group’s 
principal loan covenants.
In August 2006, the Group extended 
the term of its 5 year bilateral revolving 
credit facilities of £195 million from 
August 2010 to August 2011. These 
facilities, together with the Group’s 
US dollar private placement facilities 
which generally expire between 
2008 and 2016, provide the Group 
with committed facilities totalling 
£291 million. 
Currency 
The Group’s revenue and profits are 
affected by currency movements 
on translating overseas revenue 
and profits into sterling for reporting 
purposes. The actual translation 
effects on cross border transactions 
which involve the sale of goods or 
services in currencies foreign to a 
Group entity are not that significant 
taking into account that a number of 
currencies are pegged to the US dollar. 
The average exchange rates during the 
year for the US dollar were 1.85 (2005, 
1.82), 1.47 for the Euro (2005, 1.46) 
and 14.70 for the RMB (2005, 14.90). 
Average exchange rates in 2006 were 
not significantly different to 2005 so 
there was little impact on profits.
Although average exchange rates 
were little different year on year, the 
difference in year end exchange rates 
between 2005 and 2006 for the US 
dollar and the RMB was more marked 
with the closing rate for the US dollar 
in 2006 at 1.96 (2005, 1.72) and for 
the RMB 15.28 (2005, 13.85). The 
majority of the Group’s assets are held 
overseas and these are hedged in part 
by foreign currency loans. 
Due regard is given to the adequacy 
of the capitalisation levels of foreign 
subsidiaries and tax considerations 
in order to obtain relief for interest 
charges. The translation impact of 
exchange rate movements at the end 
of 2006 compared with the end of 
2005 reduced shareholders’ funds by 
£30.6 million.
Pensions 
The Group’s defined benefit pension 
schemes’ deficit has fallen from £16.4 
million at the beginning of the year to 
£10.9 million at the end of the year. 
£2.2 million of the increase in 
asset values was due to additional 
contributions above the charge to 
the income statement. There was a 
change in the assumptions used to 
calculate liabilities; the bond rate used 
to discount liabilities was marginally 
higher at 5.1% than 4.75% in 2005 
which together with changes in 
legislation allowing greater tax free 
cash lump sums to be taken in lieu 
of pension, have reduced liabilities 
by £6.9 million. These changes have 
been offset in part by an increase 
in the inflation assumption and an 
assumption that mortality will improve 
which together add £3.7 million to 
liabilities.
Shareholders’ Funds 
Shareholders’ funds at the 2006 
year end were £408.7 million (2005, 
£284.3 million). The principal 
movements were profit attributable to 
equity shareholders of £50.7 million 
(2005, £20.2 million) to which must 
be added an actuarial reduction in the 
net pension liabilities of £4.2 million 
the net proceeds from share issues of 
£118.5 million and deducted exchange 
losses on translation of overseas 
assets and net investment hedges of 
£30.6 million and dividends paid of 
£19.4 million.
Return on Capital Employed 
Return on capital employed 
(profit before interest and tax 
over shareholders’ funds plus net 
borrowings) increased to 16.9% 
compared to 15.6% in 2005.  The Laird Group PLC 20
Board of Directors
Nigel Keen
Chairman. MA, FCA. Aged 60. Appointed 
a non-executive director in 1993 and 
Chairman in 2000. Chairman of the 
Nominations Committee and a member of 
the Remuneration Committee. Chairman 
of Axis-Shield plc, Oxford Instruments plc 
and Deltex Medical Group plc. 
Peter Hill
Chief Executive. BSc, MBA, Chartered 
Engineer. Aged 54.  Appointed Managing 
Director in 2001 and Chief Executive in 
2002.  Previously held senior management 
positions with Invensys plc and BTR plc.  
Non-executive director of Meggitt plc and 
an Independent Board Member of United 
Kingdom Trade & Investment. 
Anthony Reading, MBE
Non-executive director. FCA. Aged 63. 
Appointed in 2004. Senior independent 
non-executive director. Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member 
of the Nominations Committee. Also a 
member of the Audit Committee with 
effect from 31 December 2006. Previously 
an executive director of Tomkins plc, and 
earlier held senior management positions 
with BTR plc. Non-executive director of 
George Wimpey Plc, Spectris plc and e2v 
technologies plc.
Professor Michael Kelly
Non-executive director. FRS, FREng, 
BSc, MSc, PhD, ScD. Aged 57. 
Appointed 1 July 2006. A member of 
the Remuneration Committee. Currently 
Prince Philip Professor of Technology at 
the University of Cambridge, and part-time 
Chief Scientiﬁ c Advisor to the Department 
for Communities and Local Government. 
Formerly Cambridge Executive Director 
for the Cambridge-MIT Institute, and 
previously Head of the School of 
Electronics, Computing and Mathematics 
at the University of Surrey. The Laird Group PLC    21
Jonathan Silver
Finance Director.  BA, CA. Aged 49. 
Joined Laird in 1986 and appointed to 
the Board as Finance Director in 1994. 
Previously Group Treasurer and Corporate 
Development Manager.
Dr William Spivey
Non-executive director. BS, MS, PhD. 
Aged 60. Appointed in 2002. A member 
of the Remuneration Committee and also 
a member of the Audit Committee with 
effect from 31 December 2006. Formerly 
President and CEO of Luminent, Inc., 
having previously held senior management 
positions with AT&T Corporation and 
Lucent Technologies. Non-executive 
director of the Raytheon Company, 
Novellus Systems, Lyondell Chemical, 
ADC Telecommunications and Cascade 
Microtech Inc. US citizen.
Martin Rapp
Executive Director . BS, MS, MBA. Aged 46. 
Joined Laird in 1996 as General Manager of 
the Group’ s EMI shielding business, becoming 
President of APM, Inc in 1997. Appointed 
Chief Executive of Laird T echnologies, Inc in 
2001. Appointed a director in January 2005. 
Previously held management positions with 
Monsanto. Non-executive director of Kionix, 
Inc. US citizen.
Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG
Non-executive director. MA. Aged 
61. Appointed 1 December 2006. A 
member of the Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees. Master of 
Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. 
H M Diplomatic Service, retired. Formerly 
H M Ambassador to the People’s Republic 
of China, having previously served as 
H M Ambassador, Warsaw, as Assistant 
Under Secretary of State for North Asia 
and the Paciﬁ c, and earlier as Head of the 
Hong Kong Department of the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Ofﬁ ce.
Andrew Robb
Non-executive director. FCMA. Aged 
64. Appointed in 2004. Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. Previously 
Finance Director of Pilkington plc and 
P&O Steam Navigation Co. Non-
executive director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee of Corus Group plc, 
Kesa Electricals plc and PayPoint plc 
and non-executive director of Northgate 
Information Solutions plc. The Laird Group PLC 22
Directors’ report
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group Public Limited Company is a holding company. The principal activities of its subsidiary undertakings (“subsidiaries”) 
during the year were the design, manufacture and supply of products and services to the electronics and residential building industries. 
The Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review and Finance Director’s report should be read in conjunction with this report. An 
analysis of revenue, profit, assets and liabilities by segment is shown in note 3 on pages 51 and 52.
Business review
A review of the development and performance of the Group during the year, and its position at the year end, is given in the Chairman’s 
statement on page 2, the Chief Executive’s review on page 3, the Finance Director’s report on pages 18 to 19, the divisional reports 
on pages 6 to 17, and note 14 to the financial statements. Information on environmental matters is contained in the Corporate social 
responsibility report on pages 29 to 31. These pages, and the Key Performance Indicators contained therein, are incorporated into this 
report by reference. Definitions of the KPIs contained in the Business Review are given on page 101.
Risks and uncertainties
The management and control of risks within the Group is embedded with long established basic operating procedures. These 
procedures comprise a range of measures including Group Operating Rules, monthly reporting, internal and external audits, the Risk 
Management Group, self assessment and continuous monitoring by Group and divisional management.
The Group operates globally in varied markets and the principal risks and uncertainties that are or may be faced by the Group are set 
out below. In addition, information on the Laird Risk Management Group (“RMG”) is given on page 28.
Overall growth and demand for products
The overall demand for products is influenced by the level of customers’ commercial activity, which in turn is affected by the general 
economic climate, market conditions and consumer confidence generally. This demand can be volatile and is dependent on a number 
of factors including the macroeconomic climate, the rate of change in the regulatory environment and in industry consolidation, the 
adoption of new technologies and customer spending patterns.
Laird’s markets are highly competitive and the Group must be able to respond to technological change
The Group operates in market sectors which are characterised by a high level of competition between suppliers, and which are driven 
by technological change. The Group must continue to respond promptly and effectively to technological change and customers’ and 
competitors’ innovations in order to be successful.
The markets for some products are characterised by continual technological development and innovation, often involving joint 
collaboration and close working relationships with customers around the world. This requires Laird to put together multi-national, 
multi-functional teams which are essential to the development of new products in high growth markets.
The ability of the Group to meet the demands of the market and to compete effectively is, to a large extent, dependent on the skills, 
experience and performance of its employees and their relationships with customers.
Political, economic and regulatory factors
Having a global reach does involve certain risks for the Group. The Group is exposed to political risk and to the effects of possible 
terrorist action and natural catastrophe. Changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, price or exchange controls, 
composition or changes in taxation or other governmental policies could limit its operations and make the repatriation of profits difficult. 
In addition, the uncertainty of the legal environment in some regions could limit the Group’s ability to enforce its rights.
Dependence on a small number of large customers
The loss of a major contract or customer could adversely affect the Group’s financial condition and prospects. It may also have wider 
profit and cash flow implications if Laird has sited its manufacturing plants in close proximity to theirs.
Reliance on a limited number of suppliers
The Group’s ability to deliver according to market demands depends in large part on obtaining timely and adequate supplies of 
components and raw materials on competitive terms and in line with product quality and safety standards. Failure could interrupt its 
product supply, limit sales and increase costs, as well as affecting the Group’s reputation and brand value.
Exposure to increases in the prices of commodities and raw materials
The raw materials used in the business include commodities such as copper and beryllium copper, steel, aluminium and zinc. These 
commodities experience price volatility caused by changes in supply and demand, market fluctuations and governmental attitudes.
Loss of key management or personnel
The Group is highly reliant on the continued services of its senior management, including Executive Directors, and other key personnel, 
who have skills critical to the continued successful operation of the business. Failure to retain such individuals, or to attract and retain 
strong management and technical staff in the future, could have an adverse affect upon the business and the results of its operations.
Financial risks
The Group is subject to various financial and fiscal risks by virtue of its global operations and customer base. Further information on 
Taxation, Currency Exposures and Credit Risk are given in notes 10 and 28 to the financial statements. Information on the Group’s 
defined benefit pension schemes is given in note 36 to the financial statements. The Laird Group PLC    23
Post balance sheet events
On 24 January 2007, the Group announced the acquisition of AeroComm Inc., a privately held business, for a cash consideration of 
$38.0 million (£19.2 million) on a debt free basis. 
On 26 February 2007, the Group announced the acquisition of Cushcraft, Inc., a privately held business for a cash consideration 
of $89.75 million (£45.9 million) on a debt free basis, and the acquisition of M2sys Co., Ltd, a privately held business, for a cash 
consideration of KRW 31.2 billion (£17.0 million) on a debt free basis.
Results and dividend
The Group profit for the year after taxation was £50.7 million (2005, £20.2 million). Underlying profit before tax was £73.3 million (2005, 
£55.1 million) and is analysed in note 14 on page 59. The recommended final dividend is 6.95p per ordinary share to be paid on 22 June 
2007 to ordinary shareholders registered as members of the company at the close of business on 25 May 2007, making a total dividend 
for the year of 10.3p per ordinary share.
Share Capital
Allotment of new shares and exercise of options
In the year to 31 December 2006 the issued share capital was increased by the issue of 38,394,169 ordinary shares. 37,602,512 
ordinary shares were issued following the Rights Issue on 16 March 2006. 323,667 ordinary shares were issued on 28
 
April 2006 as the 
final release of escrow shares arising from the acquisition of Centurion Wireless Technologies Inc. in October 2004. 467,990 ordinary 
shares were issued following the exercise of options under the Company’s 1994 and 2003 executive share options schemes. Details of 
share capital and options outstanding as at 31 December 2006 are shown in note 29 on page 75.
Authority to purchase own shares
At the Annual General Meeting held on 12 May 2006 a Special Resolution was passed to authorise the company to make purchases of 
up to 10% of its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange. As at 16 March 2007 no shares have been purchased.
Directors
Re-election of directors
The directors as shown on pages 20 and 21 were all directors throughout the year to 31 December 2006, with the exception of 
Professor Michael Kelly who was appointed on 1 July 2006, Sir Christopher Hum who was appointed on 1 December 2006, and 
Mr G Drabble who resigned as a director on 30 September 2006. Sir Geoffrey Owen and Mr J B McDowell resigned as directors on 
31 December 2006.
Professor Kelly and Sir Christopher having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting will retire in accordance with Article 
140 and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting. In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance which requires any non-executive director serving longer than nine years on the Board to be subject to annual re-election, 
Mr N J Keen will offer himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting. Mr Keen fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in 
the Combined Code at the time of his appointment and the Board is satisfied that Mr Keen remains free from any relationship with the 
executive management of the Company which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement. The Board 
believes that Mr Keen makes a valuable contribution to the Group. During his Chairmanship, Mr Keen has overseen the restructuring of 
The Laird Group PLC and the strengthening and development of the Board. The Board wishes him to continue as Chairman because of 
his wide experience of business, particularly in the high technology area and his long-standing financial experience. Dr W R Spivey and 
Mr J C Silver will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election. Dr Spivey was appointed to the Board in 2002. 
His North American expertise together with his knowledge of the electronics sector is invaluable to the Board. None of the non-executive 
directors offering themselves for re-election has a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Mr Silver has a service 
contract with the Company which is terminable on twelve months notice.
Directors’ interests
No director had, in the year to 31 December 2006, a material interest in any third party contract of significance with the Company or any 
of its subsidiaries. Directors’ shareholdings at 31 December 2006 are shown below. These interests were unchanged at 16 March 2007. 
Details of share options are shown in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 35 and 36.
 Ordinary Shares
 Shareholding
 31.12.06 1.1.06*
  
N J Keen 132,669 107,400
P J Hill 148,235 120,000
J C Silver 169,852 137,500
M L Rapp  45,352  27,000
A J Reading  12,352 10,000
A M Robb  14,822  6,000
Dr W R Spivey  6,176 5,000
Professor M J Kelly*  1,000 –
Sir Christopher Hum*  1,000 –
* or date of appointment if later The Laird Group PLC 24
Employment policy
The Group is organised on a decentralised basis with directors of subsidiary companies responsible for developing employment policies 
appropriate to the size, organisation and location of their businesses. Various methods are used through the Group as appropriate in 
each location for tracking morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which are reported regularly to local management teams.
The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities in terms of recruitment, training and career development for all employees, 
including those with disabilities. Subsidiaries are encouraged to make all employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting 
the performance of their companies. 
A copy of the Group’s Employment policy statement is available on the Company’s website.
Employee participation
The Board recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its employees and therefore encourages 
two-way communication. Operating subsidiaries encourage consultation at local level and performance and development reviews 
reinforce the link between business goals, an employee’s contribution and his/her remuneration. An employee newsletter is circulated 
to all Group employees electronically and includes information on key events within the Group, charity and community involvement and 
employee achievements.
Corporate social responsibility 
In recognition that the Group’s businesses and its activities involve a wide community of stakeholders including investors, employees, 
customers, suppliers and local communities, the Board reviews the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters which may 
affect the Group. A Corporate social responsibility report providing further detail can be found on pages 29 to 31.
Health and safety at work
The Group is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and continuous improvement is sought by the setting 
of objectives and targets based on relevant national and international health and safety standards and monitoring performance against 
these. In addition the Group maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to promote and develop good health 
and safety practices. Further information is shown in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 29 to 31.
Research and development
In recognition of the importance of investing in research and development programmes to foster product innovation and manufacturing 
improvements in the Group, expenditure in 2006 on research and development amounted to £20.9 million (2005, £16.0 million), of which 
£3.8 million has been capitalised (2005, £2.6 million). Laird Technologies continues to develop its technology capabilities, with research 
and development expenditure during the year running at 5% of sales (2005, 6%).
Basis of preparation of the accounts
As set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities on page 39, the accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis. A 
statement on going concern relating to a business requires judgement at a point in time about future events which by their nature are 
inherently uncertain. The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
accounts.
Financial assets and liabilities
An analysis of Group debt is given in note 22 to the financial statements. An analysis of financial instruments at carrying value and fair 
value is given in note 28 to the financial statements. Financial instruments and related disclosures together with a discussion of derivative 
financial instruments and disclosure about market risk are in accordance with IAS 32.
Supplier payment policy
The Group requires its subsidiaries to negotiate clear and satisfactory arrangements for the payment of suppliers, as part of the overall 
terms and conditions of the supply, and to make payment accordingly. At the year end there were 53 days of purchases outstanding for 
the Group’s UK subsidiaries (2005, 53 days).
Directors’ Indemnities
As permitted by the Companies Act 1985, the Company has indemnified the directors in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, 
covering both legal costs and the financial costs of any adverse judgement.
In 2005 two of the Laird Group’s final salary pension schemes were merged and the trustees of the schemes, including Mr Keen who 
is Chairman of the trustees of one of the schemes merged, received an indemnity from the Company against any claim or other liability 
arising out of or in connection with the pension schemes and their agreement to the merger.
Auditors
It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditors.
Shareholders
At 31 December 2006 there were 4,024 shareholders.
Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    25
Substantial equity interests
With effect from 20 January 2007, section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, which required the notification of interests in shares, was 
replaced by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules (“DTRs”) issued by the Financial Services Authority, whereby notifications relate to 
control over exercising voting rights attached to shares. Categories of notifiable interests include direct interests (holdings of shares 
with voting rights attached), indirect interests (those with access to voting rights) and financial instruments (which give the holder the 
formal entitlement to acquire shares with voting rights attached). Notification must be made of each category, and also the aggregate 
of combined holdings, which exceed or fall below the notifiable threshold. The requirements of the DTRs specify that notifications of 
holdings of over 3% only have to be made when a full percentage point increase or decrease occurs. The Company has only one class 
of shares, and does not hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights under the DTRs is equivalent to the number of shares 
in issue.
Pursuant to the requirements of the DTRs, as at 16 March 2007, the Company had received the notifications of control of 3% or more 
over the Company’s total voting rights and capital in issue as set out below. 
 Number of  Percentage 
 Shares  of voting rights
  
Standard Life Group plc  27,740,137 14.00%
Aviva Plc and its subsidiaries 15,961,296  8.05%
Fidelity International Limited and its subsidiaries 14,248,615  7.18%
Schroders plc and its subsidiaries  10,506,934  5.30%
Charitable donations
In the year to 31 December 2006, the Group gave £15,000 for charitable purposes (2005, £49,000). 
Disclosure of information to the Auditors
As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware. Each director has taken such steps as he should have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
By Order of the Board
D J L HUDSON
Secretary
16 March 2007
Registered office 
100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ
Registered in England No. 55513 The Laird Group PLC 26
The Board considered that during the year ended 31 December 2006 the Company was in compliance with all of the provisions of 
section 1 (Companies) of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board
The responsibilities and objectives of the Board
The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are the owners of the Company. The Board’s principal responsibility is to act in the 
best interests of the shareholders as a whole within the legal framework of the Companies Act 1985. The Board establishes the aims 
and objectives for the Company, approves the strategic direction and plans and the operating budgets proposed by the Chief Executive, 
and monitors performance against them. The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced 
by the Company, for exercising proper and appropriate corporate governance, for establishing and ensuring the effectiveness of the 
Company’s systems of internal control and reviewing management performance. Through the Chief Executive, the Board has regard to 
the necessary financial and human resources required to meet the Company’s objectives.
The composition of the Board
The composition of the Board is outlined on pages 20 and 21. The Board comprises an appropriate mix of executive and non-executive 
directors and is of a size and includes the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business. There is a clear written 
division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which has been agreed by the Board. Mr Reading is the senior 
independent non-executive director, having taken over from Mr McDowall who retired on 31 December 2006. The principal role of the 
senior independent non-executive director is to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through 
the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive. During the year the major shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet with 
the senior non-executive director. 
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent. Nigel Keen, the Chairman, was appointed to the Board 
as an independent non-executive director in 1993. Mr Keen fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined Code at 
the time of his appointment and the Board is satisfied that Mr Keen remains free from any relationship with the executive management of 
the Company which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement. The terms and conditions of appointment 
of the non-executive directors are available from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting. At the 
Annual General Meeting every year at least one third of the directors retire from office. Such rotation of directors ensures that directors 
submit themselves for re-election regularly, and at least every three years.
The operation of the Board
The Board meets at least eight times a year. A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be discussed is normally set out at 
least twelve months in advance. The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to Committees which are described below. The 
Board determines the membership and Chairmanship of the Committees. Minutes of those Committee meetings are circulated to 
Board Members prior to each Board Meeting. All directors receive Board Papers prior to the Meetings which include detailed financial 
information and a comprehensive operational overview from the Chief Executive. The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at 
least twice a year without the executive directors present and the senior independent director meets at least annually with the 
non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved for Board approval, including for example significant long term obligations 
such as capital investments, acquisitions and divestments above certain levels, the raising of new capital and the entering into of loan 
agreements. The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive.
Communications with shareholders
The Laird Group, within the limits imposed by the Listing Rules, enters into a dialogue with institutional shareholders to develop an 
understanding of their views and to communicate and explain the Company’s objectives. The Chief Executive and Finance Director 
meet regularly with shareholders and report to the Board following these meetings. The Company’s stockbroker periodically contacts 
shareholders and provides feedback which is reported to the Board. In 2006 a formal survey, on a non-attributable basis, covering 
twelve of the Company’s larger shareholders was commissioned. Following presentations to analysts and major shareholders of the 
interim and full year results, confidential exit polls are conducted by outside consultants and the results are reported to the Board. The 
Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director make themselves available for meetings with shareholders. 
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with private investors and institutional shareholders 
and encourages them to attend. Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally 
after the meeting. The Chairman gives a formal report on the Company’s progress at the meeting. The chairmen of the various Board 
Committees are available to answer questions relating to their areas of responsibility. The number of proxy votes cast for, against or in 
abstention on the resolutions are reported to the meeting and, following the meeting, they are published on the Company’s website. 
Copies of all the Company’s press announcements are posted on the Company’s website.
Committees of the Board
The written Terms of Reference of the Committees are available on the Company’s website, from the Company on request and will be on 
display at the Annual General Meeting.
Corporate governance report
for the year to 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    27
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr A M Robb. The other members of the Committee during the year were Mr J B McDowall 
and Sir Geoffrey Owen who both retired as directors with effect from 31 December 2006, Mr A J Reading and Dr W R Spivey were 
appointed as members of the Audit Committee in their place. The Board ensures that at least one member has recent and relevant 
financial experience, currently Mr Robb. The Audit Committee, which meets at least four times a year, is responsible for monitoring the 
integrity of the financial statements of the Company which are relied upon by the Board. The Committee reviews The Laird Group PLC’s 
financial statements prior to publishing with particular reference to significant financial reporting issues and judgements. The Committee 
oversees the internal audit function and also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls. It considers the scope and 
planning of internal and external financial audits and the findings of those audits. The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the 
Finance Director and the external auditors are given notice of all meetings and may be invited to attend and speak at any meeting. The 
Committee considers the appointment and terms of engagement of the external auditor and assesses the independence of the external 
auditors and reviews the auditors’ policy for the rotation of audit partners. The Committee assesses annually the effectiveness of the 
audit process, including a report on the audit firm’s own internal quality control procedures. The Committee also agrees the audit fee and 
recommends for Board approval a policy for non-audit services so as to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair 
the external auditors’ independence or objectivity. Where there are sound commercial and practical reasons, Ernst & Young LLP provide 
non-audit services. For example, during the year Ernst & Young LLP provided tax planning and compliance advice, undertook financial 
due diligence and regulatory compliance work, and undertook work in connection with the Rights Issue Circular to shareholders dated 
16 March 2006. Where applicable, competitive quotes are obtained. Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in note 6 on page 53. 
The Committee recommends to the shareholders, through the Board, the election of the external auditors at the Annual General Meeting 
and the authority for the fixing of their remuneration. The Committee and the auditors meet formally without any executive directors 
present at least once a year. 
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman and at least two non-executive directors. It is chaired by Mr N J Keen and 
comprised Mr A J Reading and Mr J B McDowall during the year. Sir Christopher Hum became a member of the Committee on 
31 December 2006, following Mr McDowall’s retirement. The Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, regularly reviews 
the structure, size and composition (including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience) required of the Board and makes 
recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes. At least annually the Committee reviews the performance of the Chief 
Executive and reports to the Board. It is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the 
Board having regard to the overall skills balance and composition of the Board. It reviews and advises upon succession planning and 
takes into account the need to refresh the Board ensuring that changes to the Board’s composition can be managed without undue 
disruption. The Committee is assisted by external search consultancies in identifying suitable candidates. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr A J Reading. Currently comprising the Chairman, Mr N J Keen, and all the non-executive 
directors, it met seven times in 2006 and is responsible for recommending to the Board the Company’s general policy on remuneration 
and in particular to determine the remuneration and benefits of the executive directors and the grant of all options and award of shares 
under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Scheme. In accordance with the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, the 
Chairman of the Board shall not be the chairman of the Committee. The Remuneration Committee, excluding the Chairman, determines 
the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment. The Board therefore believes the Company complies with the 
Combined Code recommendation regarding the composition of the Remuneration Committee.
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings and, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends the meetings. In 
normal circumstances, the Chief Executive is consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive directors 
and employees. Further details on the Remuneration Committee are to be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 32. 
Administration Committee
The Administration Committee of the Board consists of any two or more directors and deals with items of a routine and administrative 
nature. 
Performance of the Board
During the last twelve months the Board has conducted a self-evaluation assessment of itself and its committees. Following completion 
of questionnaires by all directors, the Chairman led discussions to consider the Board’s “behaviours” and “processes”. Certain 
areas were identified for improvement or action. The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees also considered their own 
performance and reported to the Board thereon. The performance of individual directors has been considered by the Chairman and 
Chief Executive in discussion with other non-executive directors. The non-executive directors have considered the performance of the 
Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors. The Chairman and Chief Executive have considered the performance 
of the executive directors. 
Board attendance
The Board had eight meetings during 2006. During the year Mr McDowall was unable to attend two meetings and Mr Reading was 
unable to attend one meeting. Whenever a director is unable to attend a meeting, the director, if possible, consults with the Chairman 
prior to the Meeting and is briefed by the Chairman after the Meeting. The Laird Group PLC 28
There were five Audit Committee meetings during the year, at which there was full attendance. Seven meetings of the Remuneration 
Committee were held, Mr McDowall and Mr Robb were each unable to attend one meeting. Two meetings of the Nominations 
Committee were held, at which there was full attendance.
Internal control
The Laird Group PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with businesses located overseas as well as in the UK. These 
activities are organised as subsidiary companies where the directors and managers of these companies are appointed to manage within 
the framework established by The Laird Group Board, as well as complying with local statutory and regulatory requirements. 
Overall responsibility for the Group’s systems of internal control and reviewing their effectiveness lies with The Laird Group Board. 
Primary responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the directors of the subsidiaries. The Group’s executive directors are 
responsible for implementing Group policy and for monitoring the businesses and performance of subsidiary companies and reporting to 
the Board thereon. 
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and complies with 
the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is regularly reviewed by the Board. This process has been in place for 
the full financial year and up to the date the accounts were approved by the Board. Acquisitions during that period were subject to 
due diligence prior to their purchase and are required to adopt the Group’s procedures thereafter. The systems of internal control are 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives as well as safeguarding the Group’s assets. 
These systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Group operating rules are issued each year to the directors of subsidiary companies setting out their responsibilities and the procedures 
to be followed to agree their commercial and financial objectives. These rules require approval for specific transactions and call for 
accurate and relevant financial information to be delivered on a timely basis. The ability to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting 
of management information and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
Subsidiaries submit their budgets annually to the Group’s executive directors. As part of this process they are required to identify the 
key risks and opportunities that their businesses face and set out the strategies they will employ to manage the risks and exploit the 
opportunities. The issues raised by the subsidiaries are reviewed by the Board. This process is supplemented by papers submitted to 
the Board by the executive directors throughout the year and by meetings from time to time between the Board and the management 
of the subsidiaries, some of which take place at the premises of the operating companies. The Chief Executive presents the Group’s 
business objectives which are approved by the Board, and the Board also addresses those risks which affect The Laird Group as a 
whole. The Board instigates further reports and investigations as it considers necessary.
The Laird Risk Management Group (“RMG”), chaired by an executive director and with members drawn from the Group’s businesses, 
examines all aspects of operational risk within the Group. Mr Rapp chairs the RMG having taken over from Mr Drabble who resigned 
as a director on 30 September 2006. The RMG, which met four times during the year, reports to the Board. The principal objectives of 
the RMG are to identify potential risks, physical exposure and business interruption issues associated with each operating company’s 
business and their wider implications for the Group as a whole; to review business continuity planning and emergency response 
procedures; to develop contingency plans and to oversee the implementation of remedial actions where appropriate; and to continue to 
develop and ensure the implementation of best risk management practice throughout the Group and review the results of comprehensive 
self-assessment control reviews by subsidiary management. The RMG also oversees Health, Safety and Environmental issues using 
external advisers to assist where appropriate. Further details on the RMG are set out in the Corporate social responsibility report on 
pages 29 to 31.
The Audit Committee reviews The Laird Group PLC’s financial statements. It also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial 
controls and considers the scope and planning of internal and external audits. It reviews reports on internal financial control including 
reports by the Finance Director and the results from internal financial audits. As part of their audit, the external auditors, to the extent 
they consider necessary to support their audit opinion, review and test the systems of internal control and the data contained in the 
accounts, including an independent and objective review of the approach of management to the reporting of the operating results and 
financial condition. The auditors have confirmed that, in their opinion, the UK subsidiaries are complying with the Companies Act 1985 
requirement to keep proper books and records.
Corporate governance report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    29
The Laird Group PLC, its Divisions and businesses (“the Group”) involves a wide community of stakeholders, including investors, 
employees, customers, suppliers and local communities. During the year the Company’s membership of the FTSE4Good UK Index, 
a financial index series that is designed to identify and facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate 
responsibility standards, was renewed. 
Product Stewardship
Laird’s aim is to improve the quality of life for people around the world through the provision of innovative, value-added products that 
advance performance and protection across the electronics and the residential and home improvement markets. As a 
forward-thinking Group, Laird recognises the need to behave as a good corporate citizen and pursue environmentally-conscious design 
and manufacturing practices, via various strategies including maximising resource productivity and minimising energy intensity. 
In keeping with this strategy Laird Technologies is proactively engineering the next generation of EMI shielding technology. In 2006 the 
business introduced a series of environmentally-friendly, Restriction of Hazardous Substances/RoHS-compliant products for a wide range 
of applications, for example its Beryllium-free Recyclable Clean Copper™ gaskets alleviate any environmental, safety and segregation 
concerns associated with the traditional use and recycling of Beryllium-based copper alloys, and its patent-pending EcoGreen™ 
fabric-over-foam gaskets offer a halogen-free option with uncompromised EMI shielding effectiveness.
Business Ethics
The Laird Group PLC believes that high standards of business ethics are critical in today’s business world and therefore places high 
priority on compliance with all legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance of high ethical standards, within each of 
the territories and jurisdictions in which it conducts its business.
The Group commits to conducting itself, and expects all employees to conduct themselves, in an honest, ethical manner in all dealings 
on its behalf and to behave professionally and with integrity and fairness. The Group applies these same standards to all business 
dealings with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Group’s policy is that businesses should compete enthusiastically and fairly in the marketplace and must comply with the relevant 
competition laws of each country in which it operates.
A copy of the Business Ethics and Conduct Policy statement is available on the Company’s website or from the Company on request.
Health and Safety
The Group is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and the Group maintains a proactive communications 
strategy amongst all employees to stimulate continuous improvement and promote and develop good health, safety and environmental 
practices. 
The Laird Risk Management Group (“RMG”), chaired by an executive director, currently Mr Rapp, and with members drawn from the 
Group’s businesses examines risks within the operations and in particular oversees health, safety and environmental matters. The RMG, 
which met four times during 2006, reports to the Board. 
During the year comprehensive health, safety and environmental audits were carried out at all recently acquired Group businesses and 
update audits were conducted at all other major Group facilities. The results of the health, safety and environmental audits and their 
follow up are monitored by the RMG. Health, safety and environmental training is provided, and reinforced via refresher courses where 
necessary, to designated employees and focuses on the perceived risk within each business. 
Although each business has its own Health and Safety Committee which has representatives from management and employees it 
is recognised that there are benefits of sharing knowledge within the Group and in the UK a Health and Safety Forum which has 
representatives from each business met three times during 2006. Issues discussed during the year included new Health & Safety 
regulations, work related road safety and energy and water conservation. 
Data for Group accident rates has historically been captured and monitored on an individual facility basis. However, because of different 
statutory reporting requirements in the different countries in which the Group operates, the data has not been collated on a Group-wide 
consistent basis. A uniform reporting requirement has now been established, in addition to the statutory requirements, and aggregate 
Group accident rates per 100 employees will be provided in the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts.
Corporate social responsibility
for the year to 31 December 2006
2006 Health & Safety achievements
  Appointment of a full-time Group Environmental Health & Safety Manager to conduct EHS Risk Audits, produce site improvement 
action plans/monitor follow up and facilitate the implementation of the ISO 14001 standard and oversee the integration of OHSAS 
18001 across 14001 registered sites.
 UK-based ERA Products Limited recorded a 33% year on year reduction in accident rates per 100 employees in 2006.
 Amesbury Textiles in the USA received a Gold Certificate of Safety Achievement from the North Carolina Department of Labor.
  Laird Technologies’ Pennsylvania, US facility reduced workplace accidents from .56 per 10,000 hours worked in 2005 to .33 per 
10,000 hours worked in 2006. The Laird Group PLC 30
Environmental
The Group is committed to pursuing high standards of environmental performance including the maintenance of safe and healthy 
working environments.
Detailed policies are developed and implemented by the operating divisions and their subsidiary businesses to reflect their specific 
trading activities and the associated risks. The Group’s minimum requirements are for its businesses to comply with local legislation 
and to operate continuous improvement programmes, to ensure that efficient use is made of all resources, including energy, water 
and raw materials, that emissions are restricted to within best practice levels, waste is minimised and accidents are prevented through 
comprehensive training. 2006 was another year of progress in overall performance in the areas of health, safety and environmental 
management, as evidenced by the continuation of the Group’s ISO 14001 accreditation programme; all of the Group’s manufacturing 
facilities are now accredited, or re-certified to the 2004 version of, the standard, with the exception of certain recent acquisitions, which 
are targeted to achieve accreditation during 2007. This is in addition to the majority of the Group’s main manufacturing facilities being 
ISO 9000 and ISO 9001 certified. Ten ISO 14001 accredited manufacturing sites successfully integrated the OHSAS 18001 specification, 
providing an integrated Health, Safety & Environmental management system. The Group aims to complete this integration across the 
remaining ISO 14001 registered sites in 2007.
The Group undertakes a rolling programme of environmental audits covering all of its manufacturing sites. The formalisation of 
environmental management systems via the certified Environmental and Health and Safety standards will promote continuous 
improvement and allow consistent monitoring of energy source reduction, waste treatment and the re-use and reclamation of natural 
resources. The Group’s performance in these areas continued to improve in 2006 with reductions in both greenhouse gas emissions and 
levels of waste to landfill. Group CO2 emissions were cut by 20% to 68,565 (total kilograms per £1m of Group sales) and waste to landfill 
was reduced 16% to 5,261 kilograms (total waste to landfill per £1m of Group sales).
A copy of the Group’s Health, Safety and Environmental Policy statement is available on the Company’s website or from the Company 
on request.
Corporate social responsibility (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2006
2006 Environmental initiatives
  UK-based Linear Limited achieved a significant reduction in water usage through the implementation of an ISO 14001-driven action 
plan. Through usage monitoring, the installation of flushing systems and awareness training for employees, the business reduced 
water usage from 930 cubic metres in 2005 to 309 cubic metres in 2006.
  Amesbury Foam-Tite in Massachusetts, US sought to lessen the environmental impact of its packaging by redesigning the cartons 
to use less cardboard and include 50% recycled material. The redesign also eliminated the use of staples, thus facilitating recycling 
by the recipient customer.
  Laird Technologies’ facility in Penang, Malaysia realised a cost saving of $56,000 in 2006 through the implementation of a recycling 
plan for all plastic trays and cartons used on-site.
  Laird Technologies’ facility in Shanghai, China commenced an ISO 14001 programme of electricity usage reduction. By following 
initiatives including usage monitoring, the shutting down of idle equipment, more efficient use of office air-conditioning and raising 
employee awareness through training and signage, the business realised a cost saving of $29,000.
  Laird Technologies invested more than $300,000 to boost its recycling of process water streams at its Shenzhen, China plant. The 
new treatment facility will, once fully operational in the third quarter of 2007, increase internal water recycling to 60%, up from the 
current level of 20%, significantly reducing the plant’s need for fresh water and halving its levels of liquid waste. The Laird Group PLC    31
Charitable Donations and Community Affairs
The well-being of the communities in which the Group operates is important to its long term development and success. 
During the year the Group gave £15,000 to national and local charities (2005, £49,000). The Group supported a number of large UK 
charities for example, Guide Dogs for the Blind, Children in Need and When You Wish Upon a Star. The subsidiaries of the Group, many 
of which are long-established in their communities, support a variety of local initiatives.
In 2006 the Group published two editions of its employee newsletter, Insight, which is available to all Group employees via email and 
intranet sites. The newsletters feature articles on charity and community involvement, employee achievements and key events within the 
Group.
2006 Charitable and Community initiatives
  Participation in an annual raffle and silent auction in which employees put together auction baskets with proceeds donated to the 
United Way charity in the US.
  Donations including food, toys, clothing and holiday gifts to local orphanages in California and Pennsylvania, US and Penang, 
Malaysia and donation of funds to a charitable organisation providing nursing care and support for children and the elderly in 
Rosenheim, Germany.
  Support by several Group companies of a variety of local sports teams through the provision of team sponsorships, kit and 
equipment donations and other fund-raising events.
  The Laird Group PLC Head Office’s sponsored Guide Dog, Hero, graduated from training and was placed with a sight-impaired 
person. Head Office is continuing its commitment to the charity Guide Dogs for the Blind through the sponsorship of another trainee 
dog in 2007.
  Participation in quarterly blood donation drives in the US for use in the local area and support of local health services for 
disadvantaged families.
  Partnership programme with a sheltered workshop whereby a management mentoring system allows business practice to be 
applied to the workshop’s drinks cans recycling efforts. A tiered reward system generates quarterly proceeds that are donated by 
the workshop to local and international hunger relief organisations including Heifer International.
  An initiative was launched at a UK business to encourage employees to make charitable donations instead of sending Christmas 
cards to colleagues. The Laird Group PLC 32
The Directors’ remuneration report sets out the Company’s policy on the remuneration of executive and non-executive directors together 
with details of directors’ remuneration packages and service contracts.
The Remuneration Committee, which met seven times during the year, is responsible for recommending to the Board the Company’s 
general policy on remuneration and in particular to determine the remuneration packages of the Chairman and the executive directors, 
and the grant of all options and awards of shares. The Chairman does not attend discussions on his own remuneration.
The members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and the membership of the Committee is reviewed at least annually. 
The Chairman of the Committee is appointed by the Board and cannot be the Chairman of the Board. The Chief Executive is given 
notice of all meetings and, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends the meetings. The Chief Executive may request 
that he attends and speaks at Committee meetings. In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive will be consulted on general policy 
matters and matters concerning the other executive directors and employees. The written Terms of Reference are available on the 
Company’s website and from the Company on request. They will also be on display at the Annual General Meeting. The Remuneration 
Committee, chaired by Mr A J Reading, currently comprises the Chairman, Mr N J Keen, and Sir Christopher Hum, Professor Michael 
Kelly, Mr A M Robb and Dr W R Spivey, all independent non-executive directors. Mr J B McDowall and Sir Geoffrey Owen were 
members of the Committee until their retirement on 31 December 2006. Professor Kelly and Sir Christopher Hum became members 
of the Committee on their appointment as directors on 1 July 2006 and 1 December 2006 respectively. Mr Keen is a member of the 
Committee because the Board considers it essential that the Chairman be involved in setting remuneration policy. Mr D J L Hudson, 
the Company Secretary, acts as Secretary to the Committee. The Board, as a whole, is responsible for setting the remuneration of the 
non-executive directors. 
The Remuneration Committee has during the past year retained Watson Wyatt Limited and New Bridge Street Consultants LLP to 
provide independent external professional advice. Watson Wyatt Limited also provide pension actuarial services to The Laird Group 
and to the Trustees of two of The Laird Group pension schemes. The Remuneration Committee has also sought the views of the 
Chief Executive, Mr P J Hill, during the year. 
Remuneration Policy
The Remuneration Committee has established a policy on the remuneration of executive directors and the Board has established a 
policy for the non-executive directors.
Executive Directors 
The current policy for providing remuneration for the executive directors is to have an incentive driven remuneration package which 
promotes the alignment of interests of executive directors and shareholders. That policy is based upon the following principles:
 the need to link remuneration to achieving strategic objectives and to sustainable long-term corporate success;
  the reward opportunity offered to executive directors should be sufficiently competitive to recruit and retain management of the 
appropriate calibre and experience; and
 the need to provide a total compensation package which reflects the international complexity of the Group’s operations.
The executive directors receive base salary, annual performance awards up to a maximum percentage of base salary, pensions and 
other benefits, and long term performance awards. Base salaries, benefits and performance awards of the executive directors are 
reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee. Base salaries are determined with reference to an appropriate comparator group 
of companies which is reviewed annually. Benefits comprise the provision of a car or car allowance, life, disability and health insurance, 
participation in the annual performance scheme and membership of a pension scheme. Neither performance incentive awards nor 
benefits in kind are pensionable.
Performance linked incentives are a key component of the total remuneration package. Since 2003, the Remuneration Committee has 
granted options and awards under its executive share option plans and Long Term Incentive Plan. A summary of these arrangements is 
set out below.
Service Agreements
Each of the executive directors has a service agreement. Messrs Hill and Silver’s service agreements are dated 8 March 2004. Mr Rapp’s 
service agreement is dated 31 December 2004. In line with the Company’s policy, the executive directors’ service agreements are not 
for a fixed term and provide for twelve months’ written notice of termination from either party. Mr Rapp’s service agreement is with 
Laird Technologies, Inc. and he has a separate letter also dated 31 December 2004 from the Company in respect of his appointment 
as an executive director. This appointment is for an initial period of three years but is subject to the termination provisions in his service 
agreement. During the year, the terms of employment for the executive directors in the UK were amended to change the automatic 
termination date from age 60 to age 65 to comply with the Employment Equality (Age) Regulations 2006 which came into force in the 
UK on 1 October 2006. The Company’s policy on termination is to comply with the contractual terms and conditions set out in the 
service agreement. The Company may, at its election, make a payment in lieu of notice. The payment would be calculated as the total 
of the director’s basic salary plus the value of his benefits, in each case by reference to the period of the unexpired notice of termination. 
Mr Drabble, who resigned as a director with effect from 30 September 2006, had the same contractual terms as Messrs Hill and Silver. 
He received no compensation in respect of the termination of his employment.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but their appointments are subject to review every three years and the 
rotation provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association.
Directors’ remuneration report
for the year to 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    33
Shareholding Guidelines
Shareholding guidelines, under which executive directors will be expected to retain as shares all of the after-tax profit on the gains made 
on the vesting of Long Term Incentive Plan awards and the exercise of existing or future executive share options, until they have acquired 
a shareholding equal in value to their basic salaries, were introduced in 2003. At 31 December 2006, Messrs Hill, Silver and Rapp owned 
shares equivalent to a multiple of 1.08, 2.35 and 0.73 of their basic salaries respectively.
Non-Executive Directors
The Laird Group’s policy is to establish and maintain a body of non-executive directors with a breadth of international skills and 
experience that is relevant to The Laird Group’s global businesses. In this context, it is the Board’s policy for the non-executive directors 
to be paid a level of fee that reflects market conditions and is sufficient to attract individuals with appropriate knowledge and experience.
Executive Directors’ Remuneration
Emoluments of executive directors showing breakdown between basic pay, benefits-in-kind and performance related remuneration:
   Performance 
 Salaries  Related Cash in
 and fees Benefits Remuneration lieu of pension* Total
 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
          
P J Hill 568 542 17 15 464 291 – – 1,049 848
G Drabble 219 285 17 23 – 137 – – 236 445
M L Rapp 257 240 19 15 316 183 77 – 669 438
J C Silver 299 285 13 9 244 168 90 – 646 462
* A more detailed explanation is given below
Mr Hill was a non-executive director of Meggitt plc during the year and an independent board member of UK Trade & Investment. He is 
entitled to retain the fees of £39,000 and £4,800 respectively, which were paid in addition to the above.
Mr Rapp was a non-executive director of Kionix, Inc during the year and he was entitled to retain fees of £16,260 paid in addition to 
the above.
Mr Drabble, who resigned as a director with effect from 30 September 2006, was a non-executive director of Ashtead Group Plc and he 
was entitled to retain the non-executive director fees of £22,500 paid in addition to the above.
Annual Performance Incentive Awards
The awards in 2006 for the executive directors were determined by the Remuneration Committee. For the UK executive directors, up 
to a maximum of 100% of base salary could be earned and for Mr Rapp the maximum was 125%. The level of the award for 2006 
took account of the improvement in financial performance and the achievement of specific financial targets in relation to profit and cash 
generation and measurable progress in meeting defined key strategic objectives of the Group and its divisions.
Pensions
Mr Rapp, who is based in the USA, is a member of an employee managed defined contribution program to which Laird Technologies, 
Inc. makes a 50% match of the member’s contributions up to 6% of gross earnings. The amount paid in by the company in 2006 was 
£3,577. In addition, to align his benefits more closely to those of UK executives, Mr Rapp receives a cash payment of 30% of basic pay 
in lieu of any additional pension. 
Messrs Drabble, Hill and Silver are members of a UK Group contributory defined benefits plan, which is supplemented, where necessary, 
by unfunded arrangements to maintain the same level of benefits as if the earnings cap did not apply. The main benefits are: on pension 
retirement at age sixty, a maximum pension of two thirds final salary (excluding bonuses and other benefits), dependent on service; on 
death in retirement, a dependant’s pension of 60% of the member’s pension; on death in service, a lump sum of four times salary and a 
dependant’s pension of 20% of salary or 60% of the member’s expected pension, if higher. 
Following the introduction of the A Day legislation in April 2006, Mr Silver’s pension has ceased to accrue within the defined benefits 
plan. In light of the Company’s previous pension commitment to Mr Silver, he now receives a taxable salary supplement of 40% of basic 
salary in lieu of future pension accrual under the pension plan. This will reduce future pension risks for the Company and is expected to 
be cost neutral for the Company.
Pensions in payment for Messrs Hill, Drabble and Silver increase by the lesser of the increase in the retail price index or 8.5% per annum 
compound. Transfer values provided on leaving service do not include any allowances for discretionary benefits. The Laird Group PLC 34
       Increase  
  Transfer    Increase in accrued Transfer 
  value of   Accrued in deferred pension value of Change
  accrued Directors’  deferred pension during the accrued in transfer
  pension Contributions Service at pension at during year (net pension at value over
 Age at at 31.12.05 in 2006 31.12.06 31.12.06* the year of inflation) 31.12.06 the year**
 31.12.06 £000 £000 (yrs) £000 p.a. £000 £000 £000 £000
         
P J Hill  54 905 6 5 99 28 26 1,595 685
G Drabble 47 601 4 9 82 9 7 845 240
J C Silver 49 1,098 4 20 127 8 4 1,476 374
* payable at Normal Retirement Date
** after deduction of directors’ contributions
 
Mr Drabble left employment on 30 September 2006. The value of his benefits at leaving is shown as at 30 September but based on 
market conditions as at 31 December 2006. Mr Silver ceased to accrue further pension benefits from 6 April 2006. His benefits accrued 
at that date remain linked to any growth in his pensionable pay. 
The mortality assumptions used for the transfer value basis have been revised during the year. As a result the transfer values have 
increased significantly over the year from 31 December 2005. The change in the transfer value shown above therefore reflects the 
change in the basis used to calculate the value, as well as increases to the accrued pension over the year.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The Long Term Incentive Plan involves the award of shares which only vest after the achievement of demanding performance targets 
measured over three years.
Executives are eligible for annual awards of shares. The maximum annual award value under the Plan is one times basic salary. In setting 
the level of awards the Remuneration Committee takes into account options granted to executives under the 2003 executive share 
option plans in the same financial year.
The extent to which awards granted under the Plan in 2006 vest will be determined by reference to the Company’s total shareholder 
return relative to FTSE 250 companies (excluding investment trusts) and the following targets will apply:
Total Shareholder Return
Performance Level
Amount of Award Vesting
%
Upper Quartile
Median to Upper Quartile
Below Median
Full vesting
Pro rata between 30% and full vesting
Nil
These performance conditions will be measured only over a single three year period. There is no provision for retesting. In addition, 
no awards will vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Company’s 
underlying financial performance.
The Long Term Incentive Plan may use either market purchased shares or new issue shares, provided that any new shares issued will 
count against the overall dilution limit. Awards under the plan in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 took the form of nil cost options to be 
satisfied by market purchased shares from the ESOP . Further details on the ESOP are on page 37. The amount charged to the income 
statement during the year in respect of the Long Term Incentive Plan granted to the directors was £0.7m.
The directors’ interests in the Long Term Incentive Plan are as follows:
        Granted Exercised Lapsed in
       1.1.06* in 2006 in 2006 2006 31.12.06
           
P J Hill    464,292 122,000 – 147,199 439,093
G Drabble   285,490 64,000 101,809 247,681 –
M L Rapp    85,902 64,000 – – 149,902
J C Silver    285,490 64,000 – 97,779 251,711
 
* Figures at 1.1.06 are adjusted for the 4 for 17 Rights Issue announced on 16 March 2006. 
101,809 shares under Mr Drabble’s LTIPs were exercised in 2006. Of these 41,875 shares were sold at 355.95p each and the balance 
retained. The gain was £362,394.
The above grants of nil cost options were made on 25 April 2006 (calculated with reference to a share price of 457.75p, the closing 
mid-market share price on 24 April 2006) and will be exercisable between 25 April 2009 and 25 April 2011, to the extent to which the 
performance criteria are met.
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    35
Share Options
The executive directors have outstanding options under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme and the 2003 Executive Share Option 
Plan (No.1). The 1994 scheme was replaced by new share option schemes approved by shareholders at the 2003 Annual General 
Meeting. Since May 2001 the basis for calculation of the maximum grant of options to executive directors and other employees is the 
equivalent of shares with a market value at the time of grant of up to one times salary in any one year and up to two times salary in 
special circumstances, such as the recruitment or promotion to a key management position. 
The performance criteria used since 2003 has been to measure the increase in earnings per share against the rate of UK retail price 
inflation plus a specified percentage per annum over a fixed three year period. The Committee considers that growth in earnings per 
share is an appropriate performance target as it is a good guide to the underlying financial performance of The Laird Group. The rules 
of the 2003 plan permit the waiver of performance criteria in certain limited circumstances, such as a change of control, death or 
retirement. 
1994 Share Option Scheme
The 1994 scheme granted options over new shares to be issued at the time of exercise (and also over existing shares). The exercise 
of options under the 1994 scheme is dependent upon the attainment of performance criteria set by the Remuneration Committee. The 
scheme permitted the grant of both approved and unapproved options. Options were granted at the middle market price on the last 
dealing day prior to grant and are exercisable after three years but not more than ten years from the date of grant.
The performance criteria set by the Remuneration Committee for grants made in 2002, the last year in which options were granted 
under this Scheme, is that the increase in earnings per share must not be less than the increase in the rate of United Kingdom Retail 
Price Inflation plus an average of 3% per annum over a three year period. The Committee reviewed the performance conditions in 2006 
and considered that the earnings per share target had been met and that there had been a significant and sustained improvement in the 
underlying financial performance of the Company.
The 2003 Executive Share Option Plans
There are two plans which were approved by shareholders in 2003. One plan permits the grant of options approved by Her Majesty’s 
Revenue and Customs to be made to individuals who may be eligible for capital gains tax relief on the exercise of options; otherwise 
both plans are identical in all material respects. The value of shares under options granted to an executive in any financial year are 
limited, to one times basic salary, unless there are exceptional circumstances (e.g. a high level recruitment), in which case the limit is 
twice basic salary. When granting options, the Remuneration Committee takes into account both the level of awards made to executives 
under the new Long Term Incentive Plan and the prevailing share price.
The performance conditions under the plans are based on the Company’s earnings per share growth adjusted to exclude items which 
do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance. The following targets applied for options granted in 2006 and the 
earnings per share growth is measured from a base point of 27.3p.
Tier of Option Grant Applicable Performance Target: Average Annual growth in earnings per share in excess of inflation
Up to 0.5 x salary
0.5 x salary – 1 x salary and above
UK RPI + 3% per annum
UK RPI + 3% to 5% per annum applied pro rata to the multiple of salary
The performance conditions are measured over a three year period. To the extent that the performance conditions have not been met 
after three years, the options will lapse.
In order to allow for the grant of options to employees who are not executive directors, there is an overall dilution limit of 10% of the 
ordinary share capital in issue from time to time for allocations in respect of newly issued shares over a ten year period under these plans 
and all other share schemes operated by the Company.
The directors’ interests in options under the 1994 executive share option scheme in respect of new shares to be issued are shown in the 
table below:
        Granted Exercised Lapsed in
       1.1.06* in 2006 in 2006 2006 31.12.06
           
P J Hill    236,357 – – – 236,357
G Drabble   95,445 – 53,025 42,420 –
M L Rapp    – – – – –
J C Silver    132,563 – – 26,513 106,050
* Figures at 1.1.06 are adjusted for the 4 for 17 Rights Issue announced on 16 March 2006.
Mr Drabble exercised options over 53,025 shares at a price of 289p per share all of which were sold. The market price at the time of 
exercise was 359.057p per share and the gain on the exercise was £37,148. The Laird Group PLC 36
The directors’ interests in options under the 2003 executive share option (No. 1) plan in respect of new shares to be issued are shown in 
the table below:
        Granted Exercised Lapsed in
       1.1.06* in 2006 in 2006 2006 31.12.06
           
P J Hill    257,066 61,000** – – 318,066
      207,223 61,000
†
 – – 268,223
G Drabble   159,182 32,000** 67,872 123,310 –
      126,307 32,000
†
 33,936 124,371 –
M L Rapp   137,124 32,000** – – 169,124
      129,064 32,000
†
 – – 161,064
J C Silver   159,182 32,000** – – 191,182
      126,307 32,000
†
 – – 158,307
*  Figures at 1.1.06 are adjusted for the 4 for 17 Rights Issue announced on 16 March 2006.
**  The performance criterion is growth in the Company’s earnings per share of at least UK RPI plus an average of 3% per annum for the 
three year period ending 31 December 2008.
†   The performance criterion is that the average annual growth in the Company’s earnings per share is at least UK RPI plus 3% to 5% 
per annum applied pro rata to the multiple of salary at time of grant for the three year period ending 31 December 2008. 
Mr Drabble exercised options over 101,808 shares at a price of 195p per share of which 33,217 were retained and the balance sold. 
The market price at the time of exercise was 359.057p and the gain on exercise was £167,023.
The aggregate of gains made by Mr Drabble on the exercise of share options during the year was £204,171.
The breakdown of the outstanding options is shown in the table below:
 Number of shares
 under option as at Exercise
 31 December 2006 price (p) Exercise period
   
P J Hill   
1994 Executive Scheme 236,357 161 10.12.05-10.12.12
2003 Executive (No. 1) Plan 153,773 195 2.6.06-2.6.13
 147,198 271 12.3.07-12.3.14
 163,318 323 18.3.08-18.3.15
 122,000 457.75 25.4.09-25.4.16
 
 822,646  
 
M L Rapp   
2003 Executive (No. 1) Plan 106,051 195 2.6.06-2.6.13
 74,236 271 12.3.07-12.3.14
 85,901 323 18.3.08-18.3.15
 64,000 457.75 25.4.09-25.4.16
 
 330,188  
 
J C Silver   
1994 Executive Scheme 33,936 402 8.9.00-8.9.07
 29,694 315 10.9.02-10.9.09
 42,420 293.5 16.11.03-16.11.10
2003 Executive (No. 1) Plan 101,808 195 2.6.06-2.6.13
 97,780 271 12.3.07-12.3.14
 85,901 323 18.3.08-18.3.15
 64,000 457.75 25.4.09-25.4.16
 
 455,539  
 
 
There have been no changes in these interests since the year end. The middle market share price at 29 December 2006 (the last 
business day of the year) was 413p. During the year the share price was in the range 347.5p to 469.75p.
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    37
ESOP
The ESOP is operated through a Trust, which purchases and holds shares in The Laird Group to meet the requirements of share option 
awards and grants under the Long Term Incentive Plan. Currently there are no outstanding share options to be satisfied by the Trust. The 
Trust, which is financed by a loan of £2.7m from the Company, currently holds 996,118 ordinary shares of which 255,583 shares relate 
to the Long Term Incentive Plan. The balance of the shares is unallocated. Pursuant to section 324 of the Companies Act 1985, the 
executive directors have interests in the shares held in the ESOP .
Independent Non-executive Directors
Chairman
Under an arrangement between the Company and Imperialise Limited, Mr Keen is retained to act as Chairman of the Company. Mr 
Keen’s fees for his services, for which he must account to Imperialise Limited, were increased from £145,000 per annum to £175,000 
per annum with effect from 1 September 2006. In addition, Imperialise is paid a sum equivalent to the National Insurance on those fees 
of £19,840, whereas National Insurance in respect of the non-executive directors is paid directly to Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs 
and not included in the table below. Mr Keen’s initial period of appointment as Chairman was for three years commencing 5 June 2000. 
His term of appointment, which is subject to rotation, was extended by The Laird Group Board for a further three years commencing 5 
June 2003 and for a further three years commencing 5 June 2006. The appointment may be terminated by either party giving not less 
than six months notice.
Non-executive Directors
The non-executive directors annual fee was increased to £36,000 per annum with effect from 1 September 2006. J B McDowall, 
A J Reading and A M Robb’s emoluments include fees at the rate of £7,000 per annum to reflect their chairmanship of Board and other 
Committees. Dr Spivey who is based in North America, received additional remuneration of £14,000 during the year to take account of 
additional time spent on the Company’s business. The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not receive any other benefits.
Emoluments of the Chairman and non-executive directors:
         2006 2005
         £000 £000
           
N J Keen, Chairman      175 164
Professor M J Kelly*      17 –
Sir Christopher Hum
†
      3 –
J B McDowall       38 36
Sir Geoffrey Owen      32 30
A J Reading      38 34
A M Robb      38 36
Dr W R Spivey      46 44
*appointed on 1 July 2006
†
appointed on 1 December 2006
  The Laird Group PLC 38
Performance Graph
The graph below shows for the five years ended 31 December 2006, the total shareholder return on a holding of the Company’s ordinary 
shares compared with hypothetical holdings of shares made up of shares of the same kind and number as those by reference to which 
the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) is calculated, and also the Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector of the FTSE. The 
FTSE 250 and the Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector have been shown because Laird is in both. Total shareholder return has 
been calculated by reference to the relevant share price for each constituent company assuming dividends are reinvested.
Total shareholder return for the ﬁ ve years ended 31 December 2006
0
100
200
300
400
Dec – 01
Jun– 02
Dec – 02
Jun– 03
Dec – 03
Jun– 04
Dec – 04
Jun– 05
Dec – 05
Jun– 06
Dec – 06
The Laird Group PLC FTSE Mid 250 rebased (exc. investment trusts) FTSE Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector
In accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations, the nine tables setting out directors’ remuneration, pensions, LTIP 
awards and share options contained within the report have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP; the statements of policy and the total 
shareholder return graph have not been audited.
This report was adopted by the Remuneration Committee at a meeting on 5 March 2007 and has been approved subsequently by The 
Laird Group Board for submission to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 May 2007.
By Order of the Board
A J READING
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
16 March 2007
p p
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    39
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Group 
and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the directors are 
required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; and
  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
 state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
in relation to the Group ﬁ nancial statements The Laird Group PLC 40
We have audited the group financial statements of The Laird Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the Group 
Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 
and the related notes 1 to 36. These group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of The Laird Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 
2006 and on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of 
directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial 
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report 
to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements. The information given 
in the Directors’ report includes the specific information that is cross referenced from the Business Review section of the Directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding director’s remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined 
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to 
consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial 
statements. The other information comprises only the Directors’ report, the unaudited part of the Directors’ remuneration report, the 
Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s report and review, the Finance Director’s report, the Corporate Social Responsibility report 
and the Corporate governance report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or 
material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An 
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also 
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, 
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to 
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation 
of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion :
  the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of 
the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2006 and of its profit for the year then ended; 
  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation; and
 the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
London
16 March 2007
Notes :
1.  The maintenance and integrity of The Laird Group PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not 
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of The Laird Group PLC The Laird Group PLC    41
note        2006 2005
         £m £m
   
  Continuing operations 
 4 Revenue      608.3 490.3
   
  Operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets
  and exceptional items      83.2 65.8
 17 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets     (7.1) (4.4)
 7 Exceptional items      – (15.5)
   
 6 Operating profit        76.1 45.9
 10 Finance revenue      2.1 0.8
 10 Finance costs      (12.5) (11.2)
 10 Financial instruments – fair value adjustment    0.2 (1.1)
 36 Other net finance revenue / (costs) – pension    0.5 (0.1)
   
  Profit before  tax from continuing operations     66.4 34.3
 11 Taxation      (16.2) (9.0)
   
  Profit for the year from continuing operations    50.2 25.3
  Discontinued operations 
 12 Profit / (loss) for the year from discontinued operations    0.5 (5.1)
   
   Profit for the year       50.7 20.2
   
   Earnings per share  
 13 Basic from continuing operations     26.5p 15.1p
 13 Diluted from continuing operations     26.3p 14.9p
  Basic on profit for the year     26.8p 12.1p
  Diluted on profit for the year     26.6p 11.9p
 4  Total revenue  
  Revenue (from continuing and discontinued operations)    608.3 508.7
 14  Underlying results*  
  Profit before tax      73.3 55.1
  Earnings per share  
  Basic       31.7p 27.3p
  Diluted      31.5p 27.0p
 15  Dividends declared  
  Dividends      20.4  15.6
  Dividend per share       10.3p 9.56p
   *before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, exceptional items, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss on 
disposal of businesses, and the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments
Group income statement
for the year to 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC 42
note        2006 2005
         £m £m
   
  Profit for the year       50.7 20.2
 36 Actuarial gains / (losses) on retirement benefit obligations    4.2 (7.9)
 11 Deferred tax on actuarial gains / (losses)     – (2.0)
  Exchange differences on retranslation of overseas net investments   (48.4) 34.5
  Exchange differences on net investment hedges    17.8 (12.8)
 11 Tax on exchange differences      (1.1) 1.8
  Financial instruments – losses on cash flow hedges taken to equity   (0.3) –
   
  Total income and expense recognised directly in equity    (27.8) 13.6
   
  Total income and expense recognised during the year     22.9 33.8
  Restatement for the effects of IAS 32 and 39    – (0.4)
   
   Total income and expense recognised for the year    22.9 33.4
   
Statement of recognised income and expense
for the year to 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    43
note        2006 2005
         £m £m
   
  Assets 
  Non-current assets 
 16 Property, plant and equipment     86.6 81.6
 17 Intangible assets      429.7 364.5
 25 Deferred tax assets      0.1 0.3
  Other non-current assets     3.5 1.3
   
         519.9 447.7
        
  Current assets 
 19 Inventories      69.6 59.5
 20 Trade and other receivables     123.5 97.0
  Income tax receivable      0.7 0.3
 21 Cash       44.0 23.9
   
         237.8 180.7
        
  Liabilities 
  Current liabilities 
 22 Borrowings      (4.9) (6.7)
 28 Derivative financial instruments     (0.3) –
 24 Trade and other payables     (108.2) (95.9)
  Current tax liabilities      (2.5) (3.7)
 27 Provisions      (0.9) –
   
         (116.8) (106.3)
        
  Net current assets      121.0 74.4
   
  Non-current liabilities 
 22 Borrowings       (148.2) (165.3)
 28 Derivative financial instruments     (1.2) (1.4)
  Income tax payable      (22.7) (15.7)
 25 Deferred tax liabilities      (33.7) (23.1)
 36 Retirement benefit obligations     (10.9) (16.4)
 26 Other non-current liabilities     (5.9) (1.4)
 27 Provisions      (9.6) (14.5)
   
         (232.2) (237.8)
        
  Net assets      408.7 284.3
   
  Capital and reserves 
 29 Equity share capital      49.5 40.0
 31 Share premium      266.0 155.5
 31 Retained earnings      154.9 119.9
 31 Translation reserve      (59.0) (28.4)
 31 Treasury shares      (2.7) (2.7)
      
  Total shareholders’ equity     408.7 284.3
   
Group balance sheet
as at 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC 44
note        2006 2005
         £m £m
   
 32 Cash flows from operating activities 
  Cash generated from operations     80.8 53.0
  Tax paid      (3.4) (2.2)
   
  Net cash flows from operating activities    77.4 50.8
   
 
  Cash flow from investing activities 
  Interest received      2.1 0.8
  Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired)    (102.0) (35.7)
  Purchase of property, plant and equipment    (22.9) (17.1)
  (Outflow) / inflow from sale of businesses     (8.5) 6.9
  Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment    3.4 –
   
  Net cash flows from investing activities     (127.9) (45.1)
   
 
  Cash flows from financing activities 
  Interest paid      (11.8) (11.1)
  Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital    118.5 3.5
  Movement in treasury shares     (0.7) 0.1
  (Decrease) / increase in borrowings     (11.4) 16.0
  Dividends paid to shareholders     (19.4) (14.9)
   
  Net cash flows from financing activities     75.2 (6.4)
   
 
  Effects of movements in foreign exchange rates    (2.4) 1.8
   
 
  Increase in cash and cash equivalents for the year    22.3 1.1
 32 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January     21.7 20.6
   
 32 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December     44.0 21.7
   
Group cash flow statement
for the year to 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    45
note
 1 Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 
16 March 2007 and the balance sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by P J Hill and J C Silver. The Laird Group PLC is a 
public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock 
Exchange.
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted 
for use in the European Union (IFRS) and the principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
 2 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, 
that have been measured at fair value. The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are 
rounded to the nearest million unless otherwise indicated. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires the directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of 
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense 
during the reporting periods. Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the directors’ best knowledge of the 
amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of goodwill and the measurement 
of defined benefit pension obligations. The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination 
involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate. The Group determines whether goodwill 
is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the 
intangible assets are allocated. This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate (see note 17). 
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as 
mortality rates, the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate (see note 36). 
The accounting policies set out below have been used to prepare the financial information.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated Group comprises The Laird Group PLC (‘the Group’) and all of its subsidiaries. The financial statements of the 
subsidiaries are prepared as of the same reporting date as the parent, using consistent accounting policies. Intra-group balances 
and transactions are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date on which 
the Group ceases to control them.
All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of a business combination is measured as the 
aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of any assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments 
issued by the Group, plus any costs directly attributable to the combination. The identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree 
are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s 
interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, including those of an intangible and tangible nature, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Currency translation
The financial statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries are prepared using its functional currency. The functional currency is 
the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates. The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary 
assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
In the Group accounts the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted average 
rates of exchange for the period. Net investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange 
ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising from retranslating opening net investments and the retained profits 
for the period of overseas subsidiaries, less exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against 
overseas investments, are shown as movements in equity. All other exchange differences are dealt with in the Income Statement 
for the period.
Exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. On disposal 
of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders’ equity that relate to the disposed operation are 
transferred to the Income Statement.
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2006 Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 46
note
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received and excludes intra-group sales and value-added taxes and 
represents net invoice value.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party, the amount of 
revenue can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the 
Group.
Retirement benefit obligations
Under IAS 19 the assets and liabilities of defined benefit pension plans are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet and 
the operating and financing costs of defined benefit pension plans are recognised in the Income Statement as operating costs 
and interest costs respectively. Variations from expected costs, arising from the experience of the plans or changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognised immediately in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense (SORIE).
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit 
credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the current 
and prior periods (to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. The assets of 
defined benefit plans are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet and the liabilities are recognised at present value using a 
high quality corporate bond rate. 
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they become 
payable.
Share based payments
The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) shares awarded is estimated at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo 
simulation technique, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including market 
based performance conditions. The fair value of share options granted is estimated at the date of grant using a binomial lattice 
method of calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. Non-market 
company performance conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
No expense is recognised for grants that do not vest and charges previously made are reversed except that an expense is 
recognised for grants where vesting is conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as vesting irrespective of 
whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided all the other performance conditions are satisfied. 
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting 
as described above. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the Income 
Statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not 
been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share based 
payment, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation 
or settlement, and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately. 
Intangible assets
Acquired intangible assets, including patents, trade secrets, brand names and customer relationships, are recognised separately 
from goodwill and capitalised at fair value and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives. Amortisation is charged to 
the Income Statement on a straight-line basis. The estimated useful life of an intangible asset ranges between 3 and 20 years 
depending on its nature.
Research and development
Research and development expenditure is expensed as it is incurred, except for certain development costs, which are capitalised 
as intangible assets when it is probable that the development project will be commercially viable, and certain criteria, including 
commercial and technological feasibility have been met. Intangible assets arising in this manner are amortised over their useful 
economic lives, from the product launch date, which is typically less than three years. Intangible assets relating to products in the 
development phase, both internally generated and externally acquired, are subject to an impairment review at each balance sheet 
date, or earlier should indication of impairment arise. Any impairment losses are written off immediately to income. The Laird Group PLC    47
note
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired. Goodwill arises where the fair value of the 
consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being 
tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill set off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not 
included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, 
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
  where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is 
not a business combination that at the time of the transaction effects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
  in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future; and
  deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised:
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise income 
tax is recognised in the Income Statement.
Dividends
Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a legal 
liability of the Company.
Interest
Interest is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost 
comprises the purchase price and directly attributable costs, for example, initial delivery and handling costs and installation and 
assembly costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. For all other property, plant, and equipment depreciation is 
calculated on a straight line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years or less
Leasehold land and buildings 50 years or the lease term if less
Computer equipment  5 years or less
Motor vehicles  4 years
Other plant and machinery 13 years or less
A proportion of one year’s depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold. Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 48
note
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication 
exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable 
amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and 
its value in use. This is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the 
asset belongs is determined. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered 
impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the Income Statement in those expense 
categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Leases
Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a 
finance lease. All other leases are treated as operating leases, and are expensed to the Income Statement as incurred.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in tangible fixed assets at fair value. Each asset is depreciated 
over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the asset. The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges 
in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate under current, or non-current, trade and other payables. The interest 
element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on 
the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Segment reporting
The Group’s primary reporting format is business segments and its secondary format is geographical segments. A business 
segment is a component of the Group that is engaged in providing a group of related products and is subject to risks and 
returns that are different from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is a component of the Group that 
operates within a particular economic environment and is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of components 
operating in other economic environments.
Exceptional items
These items are presented within the relevant Income Statement category. The separate reporting of exceptional items helps 
provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. Events which may give rise to the classification of 
items as exceptional include the restructuring of businesses, the integration of new businesses, gains or losses on the disposal of 
businesses, and asset impairments.
Financial assets 
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the 
lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried 
at amortised cost. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full. 
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote. The Group assesses at each balance 
sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the 
loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired. 
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment. Trade and other receivables are 
discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Derivative financial assets are classified as held for trading, unless they are designated as hedging instruments. These assets are 
carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses in value being recognised in the Income Statement.
A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised 
where:
 the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or
  the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially all the risks 
and rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but 
has transferred control of the asset.
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value. Measurement after initial recognition is at amortised cost, with the 
changes in the carrying amount being taken through the Income Statement. The Laird Group PLC    49
note
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains 
and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance 
income and finance expense.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The Group may use derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks 
associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. From 1 January 2005, such derivative financial instruments are 
initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair 
value. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken 
to the Income Statement. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is 
negative. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar 
maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For those contracts designated as hedges the hedging relationship is documented at its inception. This documentation identifies 
the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be 
measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to be effective and 
periodically throughout their duration to assess continuing effectiveness.
Cash flow hedges
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while 
the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the 
hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs. Where the hedged item is the cost of 
a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset 
or liability.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss. If 
the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge 
is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to 
the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above. If the related transaction is not 
expected to occur, the amount is taken to profit or loss.
Net investment hedges
These are used to hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign operations. The 
portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in shareholders’ 
equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the Income Statement. 
Interest rate swaps
The interest rate swap contract has not been designated as a hedge and gains or losses arising on this contract are taken to the 
Income Statement.
Treasury shares
The Laird Group PLC shares held in the ESOP are classified in shareholders’ equity as ‘treasury shares’ and are recognised at 
cost. Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds 
from sale and the original cost being taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on 
the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity in three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as 
defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. For finished goods and work in progress, cost includes 
directly attributable costs and certain overhead expenses (principally administration costs) are excluded. Net realisable value is 
determined as estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling, and 
distribution. Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 50
note
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
Provisions
These comprise liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions for restructuring 
are recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either 
commenced or has been publicly announced on or before the balance sheet date. Provisions are discounted where the time 
value of money is material.
New Standards and Interpretations not applied
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial 
statements:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS) Effective date
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009
IAS 1 Amendment - Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 7  Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting 
 in Hyperinflationary Economies  1 March 2006
IFRIC 8  Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006
IFRIC 9  Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment 1 November 2006
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions 1 March 2007
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements  1 January 2008
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s 
financial statements in the period of initial application.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance 
and the nature and extent of risks that they give rise to. More specifically the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its 
financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail. There will be no effect on reported income or net assets. The Laird Group PLC    51
note
 3 Segmental analysis 
Primary reporting format – business segments
 Laird Laird 
 Technologies Security Systems Total
     2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
      
  Continuing operations 
  Revenue  370.6 259.4 237.7 230.9 608.3 490.3
        
  Segment result before:  55.4 37.7 27.8 28.1 83.2 65.8
  Amortisation of acquired intangible assets  (6.1) (4.4) (1.0) – (7.1) (4.4)
  Exceptional items  – (5.9) – (9.6) – (15.5)
      
     49.3 27.4 26.8 18.5 76.1 45.9
      
   Finance revenue      2.1 0.8
  Fair value adjustment on interest rate swap     0.2 (1.1)
  Finance costs      (12.5) (11.2)
  Other finance revenue/(costs) – pension     0.5 (0.1)
        
  Profit before tax      66.4 34.3
  Taxation      (16.2) (9.0)
        
  Profit for the year from continuing operations     50.2 25.3
        
  Discontinued operations 
  Revenue  – – – 18.4 – 18.4
      
  Segment result  – – – (0.2) – (0.2)
  Loss on disposal  – – – (7.8) – (7.8)
      
  Loss before tax  – – – (8.0) – (8.0)
  Taxation  – – – 2.9 – 2.9
      
  Loss for the year from discontinued operations – – – (5.1) – (5.1)
      
  Loss before tax on prior year disposal *     (2.1) –
  Taxation *      2.6 –
        
         0.5 (5.1)
        
  Profit for the year      50.7 20.2
        
  *These relate to other business segments disposed of in years prior to 2006.
  Segment assets  588.9 488.8 164.5 139.1 753.4 627.9
  Unallocated assets  – – – – 4.3 0.5
      
  Total assets  588.9 488.8 164.5 139.1 757.7 628.4
      
  Segment liabilities  79.3 60.0 33.9 37.9 113.2 97.9
  Unallocated liabilities 
  – borrowings  – – – – 153.1 172.0
  – other  – – – – 82.7 74.2
      
  Total liabilities  79.3 60.0 33.9 37.9 349.0 344.1
      
  Other segment items 
  Capital expenditure   20.7 14.8 6.3 5.6 27.0 20.4
  Acquisition of assets  102.3 23.7 13.4 8.3 115.7 32.0
      
  Total additions  123.0 38.5 19.7 13.9 142.7 52.4
      
  Depreciation  8.0 7.0 5.3 5.8 13.3 12.8
      
  Amortisation of intangible assets  7.0 4.4 1.0 0.2 8.0 4.6
       Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 52
note
  3 Segmental analysis (continued)
There are no sales between primary reporting segments – all revenue arises from external sales.
Secondary reporting format - geographical segments
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis. The operations are based in four main geographical areas. The 
parent company is resident in the UK. The main operations in the principal territories are as follows:
UK, Continental Europe, North America, Asia and Rest of World.
The segment revenue analysis in the table below is based on the location of the customer. Segment assets and additions are 
based on location of production.
 Segment revenue Segment assets Total additions
     2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
       
  Continuing operations     
  United Kingdom  131.4 144.6 97.7 97.7 6.6 8.3
  Continental Europe  75.8 59.3 95.3 57.8 20.5 1.9
  North America  212.4 175.9 416.7 394.2 99.8 21.5
  Asia  179.5 99.5 143.7 78.2 15.8 20.5
  Rest of World  9.2 11.0 – – – –
       
   608.3 490.3 753.4 627.9 142.7 52.2
  Discontinued operations
  United Kingdom  – 17.6 – – – 0.1
  Continental Europe  – 0.8 – – – –
       
     – 18.4 – – – 0.1
  Total continuing and 
   discontinued  608.3 508.7 753.4 627.9 142.7 52.3
  Unallocated  – – 4.3 0.5 – 0.1
       
     608.3 508.7 757.7 628.4 142.7 52.4
          
 4 Revenue
Revenue disclosed in the Income Statement is analysed as follows: 
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Sale of goods   
   Total       608.3 508.7
    Less: from discontinued operations      – (18.4)
  
  Revenue      608.3 490.3
  Finance revenue      2.1 0.8
  
  Total revenue       610.4 491.1
   
 
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods and services (2005, £nil).
 5 Exchange rates 
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted average rates of exchange for the 
year. The principal rates used were as follows:
  Average  Closing
       2006 2005 2006 2005
    
  Euros    1.47 1.46 1.48 1.45
  US dollars    1.85 1.82 1.96 1.72
  Renminbi    14.70 14.90 15.28 13.85 The Laird Group PLC    53
note
 6 Operating profit before finance costs and tax
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Revenue       608.3 490.3
  Cost of sales       (453.5) (360.7)
  
  Gross profit      154.8 129.6
  Administration expenses      (78.7) (83.7)
  
  Operating profit before finance costs and tax    76.1 45.9
  
Included in administration expenses are £nil (2005, £15.5m) of exceptional items as described in note 7 to the financial 
statements and £7.1m (2005, £4.4m) of amortisation relating to acquired intangible assets.
        2006 2005 2005
        Continuing Continuing Discontinued
        operations operations operations
        £m £m £m
   
  Profit for the year is stated after charging the following items:
  Staff costs     117.0 126.1 3.5
 
  Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (included in cost of sales)  370.0 289.4 11.1
 
  Exceptional items      – 15.5 –
 
  Research and development expenditure 
   Incurred     20.9 16.0 –
   Capitalised     (3.8) (2.6) –
 
  Depreciation and amortisation 
   Property, plant and equipment    13.3 12.0 0.8
   Intangible assets     8.0 4.6 –
 
  Operating lease rentals 
   Hire of plant and machinery    1.6 2.5 –
   Other     8.0 5.5 –
 
  Auditors’ remuneration * 
   Audit fees 
    – Group accounts     0.2 0.2 –
    – Local statutory audit    0.8 0.7 –
   Tax fees 
    – Compliance services    0.5 0.5 –
    – Planning services     0.6 0.6 –
   Transaction support services    – – –
   Other services     – 0.2 –
*In addition, fees of £1.0m (2005, £0.8m) for services largely in respect of acquisitions, disposals and the Rights Issue were paid to the auditors but not charged 
against operating profit. Total fees paid to the auditors were £3.1m (2005, £3.0m).  Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 54
note
 7 Exceptional items
         2006 2005
         £m  £m
  
  Laird Technologies  
   Flood costs, before insurance proceeds    – 4.5
   Insurance proceeds      – (1.3)
   Restructuring costs      – 2.7
  Laird Security Systems (UK)  
   Plant closure and restructuring costs     – 4.8
   Future rental costs for onerous lease     – 4.0
   Loss on disposal of business     – 0.8
  
         – 15.5
  
Note
(a)  There was a flood at a Laird Technologies plant during 2005. Asset write offs and clean up costs incurred in 2005 amounted 
to £4.5m. Insurance proceeds of £1.3m have been received.
(b)  Laird Technologies incurred restructuring costs of £2.7m during 2005 largely as a result of the integration of acquired 
companies including the relocation of production from Sweden to Central Europe.
(c)  Laird Security Systems incurred restructuring costs of £4.8m during 2005 largely relating to the closure of plants in the UK 
and the transfer of production to China.
(d)  Following the sale of the business of Permacell Finesse, an onerous lease provision of £4.0m was made in 2005 for the site 
that the business occupied and which the Group retains.
(e) The total cash outlay for exceptional costs in 2006 was £0.5m (2005, £4.7m).
(f) The tax effect on exceptional items is £nil (2005, £3.6m).
 8 Directors’ emoluments
         2006 2005
         £m  £m
  
  Emoluments  
   Fees      0.2 0.2
   Salaries and benefits      1.6 1.6
   Pension contributions     0.3 0.2
  Performance incentive awards  
   Bonuses       1.0 0.8
   Share based payments     0.7 0.9
  
         3.8 3.7
  
Aggregate notional and other gains on the exercise of share options by directors have been disclosed in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 35 and 36.
 9 Employees
         2006 2005
         Number Number
  
  Average number of Group employees
   Laird Technologies      8,133 6,237
   Laird Security Systems     2,601 2,641
  
         10,734 8,878
  Discontinued operations      – 117
  
         10,734 8,995
  
The total number of Group employees at 31 December 2006 was 11,314 (2005, 9,192). The Laird Group PLC    55
note
 9 Employees (continued)
         2006 2005
         £m  £m
  
  Employee costs
   Wages and salaries      99.8 99.2
   Social security costs      11.0 10.3
   Other pension costs      4.0 4.4
   Share based payments     1.6 1.6
  
         116.4 115.5
  
Compensation of key management personnel (excluding directors)
Key management personnel comprise members of the management teams for the Laird Technologies division, Laird Security 
Systems division and The Laird Group PLC as defined by IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”.
         2006 2005
          £m  £m
  
  Short term employee benefits     4.1 4.0
  Post employment benefits     0.5 0.4
  Termination benefits      – –
  Share based payments      0.5 0.5
  
         5.1 4.9
  
 10 Finance costs and revenues
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Interest expense 
   Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts    5.5 3.8
   Interest payable on other loans     6.3 6.8
   Other finance charges     0.7 0.6
  
  Finance costs      12.5 11.2
  Fair value adjustment on interest rate swap    (0.2) 1.1
  
         12.3 12.3
  
  Interest income      (2.1) (0.8)
   Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 56
 11 Taxation
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  (a) Analysis of the tax charge / (credit) for the year
   Current tax
     UK corporation tax  – continuing operations    0.2 3.0
 – discontinued operations    (0.2) –
  
       UK corporation tax      – 3.0
       Overseas tax – continuing operations    11.1 5.7
       Adjustments in respect of prior years  – continuing operations   (0.5) (0.8)
 – discontinued operations   (1.4) (0.6)
  
   Total current tax charge      9.2 7.3
  
   Deferred tax
    Continuing operations     8.3 2.5
    Discontinued operations     (1.0) (2.3)
    Adjustments in respect of prior years – continuing operations   (2.9) (1.4)
  
   Total deferred tax charge / (credit)     4.4 (1.2)
  
   Tax charge in the income statement     13.6 6.1
  
   The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows: 
    Tax charge on continuing operations    16.2 9.0
    Tax credit on discontinued operations    (2.6) (2.9)
  
         13.6 6.1
  
  (b) Tax included in the statement of recognised income and expense
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
   The tax charge / (credit) is made up as follows:
   Current tax – exchange differences     1.9 (1.8)
   Deferred tax
     Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations    – 2.0
     Exchange differences     (0.8) –
  
         1.1 0.2
   The Laird Group PLC    57
note
 11 Taxation (continued)
  (c)  Reconciliation of the total tax charge / (credit) for the year
The tax charge / (credit) in the income statement for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 
30% (2005, 30%). The differences are reconciled below:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
   Profit before tax from continuing operations    66.4 34.3
   Loss before tax from discontinued operations    (2.1) (8.0)
  
   Profit before tax      64.3 26.3
  
    Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2005, 30%) 19.3 7.9
    Effects of:
    Expenses not deductible for tax purposes     4.6 2.6
    Regional tax incentives     (9.7) (6.1)
    Overseas tax rate differences     2.4 2.6
    Adjustments in respect of prior years    (4.8) (2.8)
    Unrelieved tax losses     1.8 1.5
    Other      – 0.4
  
    Total tax expense reported in the income statement    13.6 6.1
  
   (d) Factors that may affect future tax charges
     Since the Group operates internationally, it is subject to income taxes in many different tax jurisdictions. The Group’s average 
expected tax rate is a weighted average of the tax rates in the tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates and may vary 
depending upon results in each jurisdiction.
 12 Discontinued operations
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Results from discontinued operations: 
  Revenue      – 18.4
  
  Operating loss      – (0.2)
  Taxation      – –
  
  Loss after tax from discontinued operations    – (0.2)
 
  Profit / (loss) on disposal of businesses:
  Loss on current year disposals     – (7.6)
  Loss on prior year disposals     (2.1) (0.2)
  Taxation      2.6 2.9
  
  Profit / (loss) after tax on disposals     0.5 (4.9)
  
  Profit / (loss) from discontinued operations     0.5 (5.1)
   Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 58
note
 13 Earnings per share
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the profit for the year divided by the daily average of the 
number of shares in issue during the year. Diluted earnings per share is based on the same profits but with the number of shares 
increased to reflect the daily average effect of relevant share options granted but not yet exercised where performance conditions 
have been met and shares contingently issuable.
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Profit
  Profit after tax from continuing operations     50.2 25.3
  Profit / (loss) from discontinued operations     0.5 (5.1) 
  
  Profit for the year       50.7 20.2 
  
          Number of
         Number of shares
         shares (restated)
         (m) (m)
  
  Weighted average shares 
  Basic weighted average shares     189.2 167.5
  Options      1.5 1.5 
  Contingent shares      – 0.3 
  
  Diluted weighted average shares     190.7 169.3 
  
         Pence Pence
  
  Earnings per share
  Basic from continuing operations     26.5 15.1
  
  Diluted from continuing operations     26.3 14.9
  
  Basic on profit for the year     26.8 12.1 
  
  Diluted on profit for the year     26.6 11.9 
  
Comparative figures for weighted average number of shares and earnings per share have been restated after adjusting for the 
bonus element of the 4 for 17 Rights Issue in March 2006. The adjustment factor is 0.9429 calculated using 464p per share, 
being the closing price on 16 March 2006. The Laird Group PLC    59
note
 14 Underlying results
Underlying profit and earnings per share are shown as the Board considers them to be relevant guides to the performance of the 
Group. The tax charge for the year is equivalent to 18.1% (2005, 17.3%) of underlying profit before tax.
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Profit for the year      50.7 20.2
  Loss before tax on discontinued operations    2.1 7.8
  Taxation from discontinued operations     (2.6) (2.9)
  Taxation from continuing operations     16.2 9.0
  Financial instruments – fair value adjustment     (0.2) 1.1
  Exceptional items      – 15.5
  Amortisation of acquired intangible assets     7.1 4.4
  
  Underlying profit before tax     73.3 55.1
  Underlying tax charge (see below)     (13.3) (9.5)
  
  Underlying earnings      60.0 45.6
  
  Underlying earnings per share basic     31.7p 27.3p
  
  Underlying earnings per share diluted     31.5p 27.0p
  
  The underlying tax charge is calculated as follows: 
  Taxation from continuing operations     (16.2) (9.0)
  
  Adjustments to calculate underlying tax charge:
   Taxation on exceptional items     – (3.6)
  Deferred tax on acquired goodwill and intangible assets    2.9 3.1
  
  Underlying tax charge      (13.3) (9.5)
  
 15 Dividends paid and proposed
On 16 March 2007 the Board declared, subject to approval from shareholders, a final dividend of 6.95p per share (2005, 6.45p). 
The final dividend will be paid on 22 June 2007 to shareholders registered on 25 May 2007. Dividends are recorded in the 
financial statements in the period in which they are declared, and approved as shown in the table below:
 Dividends paid Dividends declared
       2006 2005 2006 2005
       £m £m £m £m
    
  Final 2004    – 9.6 – –
  Interim 2005    – 5.3 – 5.3
  Final 2005    12.8 – – 10.3
  Interim 2006    6.6 – 6.6 –
  Final 2006    – – 13.8 –
    
       19.4 14.9 20.4 15.6
        
 Dividends paid Dividends declared
       2006 2005 2006 2005
       Pence Pence Pence Pence
    
  Final 2004    – 6.05 – –
  Interim 2005    – 3.11 – 3.11
  Final 2005    6.45 – – 6.45
  Interim 2006    3.35 – 3.35 –
  Final 2006    – – 6.95 –
    
       9.80 9.56 10.30 9.56
         The Laird Group PLC 60
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
note
 16  Property, plant and equipment
        Land and Plant and 
        buildings machinery Total
         £m £m £m
    
Cost  
At 1 January 2005     24.4 117.7 142.1
Additions     1.4 16.4 17.8
New businesses     0.8 1.6 2.4
Disposals     (1.0) (29.1) (30.1)
Foreign currency adjustment    2.0 9.3 11.3
    
At 31 December 2005     27.6 115.9 143.5
Additions     3.2 19.7 22.9
New businesses     0.6 3.7 4.3
Disposals     (2.1) (3.9) (6.0)
Foreign currency adjustment    (2.6) (11.7) (14.3)
    
At 31 December 2006     26.7 123.7 150.4
    
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2005     3.5 63.0 66.5
Charge for year     1.1 11.7 12.8
Disposals     (0.7) (22.2) (22.9)
Foreign currency adjustment     0.8 4.7 5.5
    
At 31 December 2005     4.7 57.2 61.9
Charge for year     1.3 12.0 13.3
Disposals     (0.3) (3.1) (3.4)
Foreign currency adjustment     (0.8) (7.2) (8.0)
    
At 31 December 2006     4.9 58.9 63.8
    
Net book value at 31 December 2006    21.8 64.8 86.6
    
Net book value at 31 December 2005    22.9 58.7 81.6
    
Net book value at 1 January 2005    20.9 54.7 75.6
     The Laird Group PLC    61
note
 17  Intangible assets
         Other
    Capitalised   acquired
    development  Customer intangible
    costs Goodwill relationships assets Total
    £m £m £m £m £m
     
Cost
At 1 January 2005   – 314.5 12.9 16.7 344.1
Additions   2.6 – – – 2.6
Acquisition of businesses  – 11.8 11.4 0.4 23.6
Adjustments in respect of prior year 
  acquisitions   – 1.2 – –  1.2
Disposal of businesses   – (0.7) – – (0.7)
Foreign currency adjustment   0.1 28.1 2.0 2.1 32.3
     
At 31 December 2005   2.7 354.9 26.3 19.2 403.1
Additions   3.8 – – 0.3 4.1
Acquisition of businesses in the year  – 63.3 34.3 9.7 107.3
Adjustments in respect of prior year 
  acquisitions   – 3.2 – – 3.2
Foreign currency adjustment   (0.3) (38.3) (4.5) (2.7) (45.8)
     
At 31 December 2006   6.2 383.1 56.1 26.5 471.9
     
Amortisation
At 1 January 2005   – 29.5 0.5 0.7 30.7
Charge for the year   0.2 – 2.0 2.4 4.6
Disposal of businesses   – – – – –
Foreign currency adjustment   – 2.9 0.2 0.2 3.3
     
At 31 December 2005   0.2 32.4 2.7 3.3 38.6
Charge for the year    1.0 – 4.1 3.0 8.1
Foreign currency adjustment   – (3.3) (0.5) (0.7) (4.5)
     
At 31 December 2006   1.2 29.1 6.3 5.6 42.2
     
Net book value at 31 December 2006  5.0 354.0 49.8 20.9 429.7
      
Net book value at 31 December 2005  2.5 322.5 23.6 15.9 364.5
     
Net book value at 1 January 2005  – 285.0 12.4 16.0 313.4
     
Capitalised development costs
Internally generated assets arising from the capitalisation of qualifying development expenditure in 2006 typically have a 
finite expected useful life of less than 3 years. Capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a straight line basis. All 
amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits. The total amount of research and development 
activity expensed during 2006 is £17.1m (2005, £13.4m). There is no indication of impairment for capitalised development costs.
Goodwill
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for indications of impairment in accordance with IAS 36. No indications of 
impairment to goodwill were identified.
Only the Laird Technologies group of cash generating units have a significant carrying value of goodwill £307m (2005, £277m), 
in comparison with the Group’s total carrying amount of goodwill. The remainder of goodwill is allocated across multiple cash 
generating units, and the amount allocated to each unit is not significant in comparison with the Group’s total carrying amount of 
goodwill. The aggregate carrying amount of goodwill allocated to these units is £47m. All of the recoverable amounts are based 
on value in use. Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 62
note
 17  Intangible assets (continued)
For Laird Technologies the key assumptions were:
 Projected cash flows for 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 (2005: 2006, 2007 and 2008)
  The equity market risk premium, calculated as 4.0% (2005, 4.0%). This is an internally calculated figure, having been 
confirmed with external advisors as being reasonable
  Laird’s beta, calculated as 1.1 (2005, 1.3). This is an internally calculated figure, having been confirmed with external advisors 
as being reasonable
The forecasts provided are based on figures approved internally for the 2007 budget, which also include estimates for 2008 to 
2011. Cash flow for 2012 has been increased at a conservative rate estimate of 3% (2005, 3%) per annum. The cash flow figures 
were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 10.3% (2005, 10.3%).
Other acquired intangible assets
Assets in this class are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits. 
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets:
 Brand names – 5 years
 Trade secrets – 8 to 15 years
 Trade marks and names – 5 to 15 years
 Patents – the remaining duration of the 17 year legal right
 Licence – the remaining duration of the 20 year legal right
 Customer relationships – 10 years
The expected life assigned to acquired customer relationships is an estimate and is not secured by any legal obligation on the 
customer to continue business with the Group for any finite period. Other than goodwill, the Group does not hold any intangible 
assets with an indefinite life. The Laird Group PLC    63
note
 18 Business combinations
Acquisition of businesses in 2006
The Group purchased six businesses during the year for a total consideration of £114.2m and all of these purchases have been 
accounted for as acquisitions. All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual excess over the 
net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
Book and fair values of the net assets of businesses acquired, stated at rates of exchange at the date of acquisition were as 
follows:
          Provisional fair
         Book values to the
         values Group
       £m £m
  
  Property, plant and equipment     4.3 4.2
  Intangible assets      – 44.8
  Inventories      7.8 7.6
  Trade and other receivables     17.8 17.5
  Trade and other payables     (14.9) (14.9)
  Income tax payable      (1.1) (1.0)
  Deferred tax liabilities      (0.7) (8.7)
  
  Net assets acquired      13.2 49.5
        
  Goodwill arising on acquisition      64.7
        
  Consideration       114.2
        
  Consideration satisfied by:
  Cash consideration (including transaction costs)     (98.9)
  Deferred cash consideration      (3.9)
  Net cash acquired       0.9
        
          (101.9)
  Borrowings acquired       (12.3)
        
          (114.2)
        
As permitted under IFRS 3, the fair values assigned to acquisitions made in the year are provisional and may change during 2007 
as two acquisitions were made in December 2006.
In March 2006, Balance UK, a UK based supplier of window balances for vertically sliding windows was acquired for a 
consideration of £3.3m, Bandlock Corporation, a US based supplier of custom PVC extrusions mainly for fenestration and door 
markets, was acquired for a consideration of £10.4m and Antenex, a US based supplier of wireless communications antennae 
was acquired for £10.1m. Also in March 2006, RecepTec, based in Germany and the USA, a supplier of wireless communications 
antennae was acquired for a consideration of £54.7m. In December 2006, Steward, which supplies ferrite based products for the 
electronics industry and is based in the USA, Mexico and China, was acquired for a consideration of £26.8m. Also in December 
2006, Coolab AB, a Swedish based supplier of thermoelectric modules and cooling systems, was acquired for £8.9m. The Group 
has acquired a 100% interest in all of the acquisitions noted above. Profit before tax for the other entities acquired in the period 
totals £4.1m since acquisition. If all of the acquisitions noted above had been held for the full year, revenues would have been 
£39.5m higher at £647.8m and profits would have been £2.5m higher, at £53.2m. 
There have been changes made during 2006 to the provisional fair values of £32.4m (2005, £164.1m) assigned to acquisitions 
made in 2005 and deferred consideration arising from prior year earn out agreements. The effect of these changes was to 
increase goodwill carried forward at 31 December 2006 by £3.2m (2005, £1.2m).
Details of all significant subsidiaries held by the Group are disclosed in the list of ‘Principal subsidiaries’ on page 84. After the 
balance sheet date the Group has acquired AeroComm Inc., Cushcraft Inc., and M2sys Co. Ltd for an aggregate consideration of 
£82.0m.
Acquisition of businesses in 2005
The Group purchased four businesses during 2005 for a total consideration of £32.4m and all of these purchases have been 
accounted for as acquisitions.  Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 64
note
 18 Business combinations (continued)
Book and fair values of the net assets of businesses acquired in 2005, stated at rates of exchange at the date of acquisition were 
as follows:
           
          Provisional fair
         Book values to the
         values Group
       £m £m
  
  Property, plant and equipment     2.4 2.4
  Intangible assets      – 11.7
  Deferred tax assets      0.2 0.2
  Inventories      6.0 5.2
  Trade and other receivables     6.4 6.4
  Trade and other payables     (3.8) (3.8)
  Income tax payable      (0.5) (0.5)
  Deferred tax liabilities      (1.0) (1.0)
  
  Net assets acquired      9.7 20.6
        
  Goodwill arising on acquisition      11.8
           
  Consideration       32.4
           
  Consideration satisfied by: 
  Cash consideration (including transaction costs)     (34.3)
  Deferred cash consideration      (2.7)
  Net cash acquired       4.9
        
          (32.1)
  Borrowings acquired       (0.3)
        
          (32.4)
        
Cateron Corporation, a Taiwanese based supplier of EMI shielding, gaskets and tape, was acquired for a consideration of £10.4m 
in January 2005. Securidor Limited, a UK based manufacturer of composite doors, was acquired for a consideration of £5.5m 
in May 2005. Builders Hardware Inc., a supplier of window and door hardware in the USA, was acquired for a consideration of 
£5.8m in September 2005. Melcor Corporation, a US based manufacturer of thermoelectric modules and cooling systems, was 
acquired for a consideration of £10.7m in October 2005. The Group has acquired a 100% interest in all of the above acquisitions. 
Cateron’s business operations have been integrated into Laird Technologies. Profit before tax of the other entities acquired in 
the period total £0.9m since acquisition. If the acquisitions noted above had been held for the whole of 2005 revenues from 
continuing operations for the Group would have been £14.0m higher, at £504.3m and profit before tax from continuing operations 
would have been £1.4m higher, at £35.7m in 2005.
There were changes made during 2005 to the provisional fair values of £164.1m assigned to acquisitions made in 2004 and 
deferred consideration arising from prior year earn out agreements. The effect of these changes was to increase goodwill carried 
forward at 31 December 2005 by £1.2m. The Laird Group PLC    65
note
 19 Inventories
         2006 2005
         £m £m
    
  Raw materials and consumables     30.4 25.5
  Work in progress      5.1 5.0
  Finished goods      34.1 29.0
    
         69.6 59.5
          
  Expenses relating to inventories written down during the period totalled £1.3m (2005, £2.2m).
  
 20 Trade and other receivables
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  Trade receivables      109.9 80.4
  Other receivables      9.9 7.1
  Prepayments and accrued income     3.7 9.5
  
         123.5 97.0
          
 21 Cash 
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  Cash at bank and in hand     44.0 23.9
           
  
  For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash comprises the following at 31 December:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  Cash at bank and in hand     44.0 23.9
  Bank overdrafts      – (2.2)
  
         44.0 21.7
           Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 66
note
 22 Borrowings
         2006 2005
  Current:      £m £m
  
  Bank overdrafts      – 2.2
  Short term borrowings      1.1 1.0
  Acquisition related Loan Notes 2007     3.6 –
  US Private Placement loans 2006     – 3.2
  Finance lease obligations      0.2 0.3
  
         4.9 6.7
          
  Non-current: 
  Acquisition related Loan Notes 2008/2009    7.3 –
  US Private Placement loans 2008/2014      25.6 29.1
  US Private Placement loans 2014/2016     71.0 81.1
  Other term loans      44.2 55.1
  Finance lease obligations      0.1 –
  
         148.2 165.3
          
  Total borrowings      153.1 172.0
  
  Borrowings are repayable as follows: 
  Within one year 
   Bank      1.1 3.2
   Other      3.6 3.2
   Finance leases      0.2 0.3
  Between one and two years  
   Bank      – –
   Other      9.1 –
   Finance leases      0.1 –
  Between two and five years 
   Bank      44.2 55.1
   Other      4.6 7.3
   Finance leases      – 0.1
  In five years or more 
   Bank      – –
   Other      90.2 102.8
  
  Total borrowings      153.1 172.0
  
Notes
(a) There are no borrowings secured on the assets of subsidiary undertakings (2005, £nil). 
(b)  US Private Placement loans, arising from private placements of debt with US insurance companies, comprise $50m repayable 
between 2008 and 2014 at an average fixed rate of interest of 7.42% and $140m repayable between 2014 and 2016 at an 
average fixed rate of interest of 5.64%.
(c)  The Group had committed bilateral revolving bank loan facilities of £195m which were underwritten in excess of four years. 
Drawings by Group companies under these facilities were £44.2m (2005,  £55.1m). Although these drawings are repayable 
within one year they are classified as long term as they can be refinanced under the terms of the facilities. 
(d)  Ancillary costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings are amortised over the term of the facility, using the 
effective interest rate method. The Laird Group PLC    67
note
 23  Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
      2006 2005
     Land and  Land and
     buildings Other buildings Other
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:  £m £m £m £m
     
  Within one year    8.6 1.2 6.0 1.5
  Later than one year and less than five years  20.3 0.8 15.5 1.4
  After five years    16.5 – 15.8 0.2
     
       45.4 2.0 37.3 3.1
        
 24 Trade and other payables
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Trade payables      71.9 50.1
  Social security costs      1.5 2.2
  Other payables      21.8 30.3
  Accruals and deferred income     13.0 13.3
  
         108.2 95.9
          
 25 Deferred taxes 
Deferred tax assets
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Temporary differences      0.1 0.3
          
Deferred tax liabilities
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Accelerated capital allowances     33.3 22.1
  Tax losses carried forward     (2.7) (4.2)
  Chargeable gains      0.7 2.8
  Other temporary differences     2.4 2.4
  
         33.7 23.1
          
Movements on deferred tax liabilities during the year were:
      Accelerated 
      tax   Rolled over
      depreciation  Losses   gains Other Total
      £m £m £m £m £m
      
  At 1 January 2006   22.1 (4.2) 2.8 2.4 23.1
  Acquisitions   0.1 – – 0.2 0.3
  Charged to the Income Statement  4.6 1.4 (2.1) 0.5 4.4
  Charged to the statement of recognised 
   income and expense    – – – (0.8) (0.8)
  Fair value of intangible assets  8.1 – – 0.4 8.4
  Foreign exchange   (1.5) 0.1 – (0.3) (1.7)
      
  At 31 December 2006   33.4 (2.7) 0.7 2.4 33.7
       Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 68
note
 25 Deferred taxes (continued) 
Deferred tax assets have been established in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences where it is probable that 
these assets will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets have not been established on pension deficits of £10.9m (2005, £16.4m), or trading losses of £11.0m 
(2005, £4.7m) where it is unlikely that future relief would be available at the balance sheet date.
No deferred tax has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries. The taxable temporary difference 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to £0.5m 
(2005, £0.8m).
 26 Other non-current liabilities
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Other creditors      5.9 1.3
  Accruals and deferred income     – 0.1
  
         5.9 1.4
          
 27 Provisions
       Warranty Onerous
       claims lease Other Total
       £m £m £m £m
     
  At 1 January 2006 
  Current    – – – –
  Non-current    7.3 4.0 3.2 14.5
     
       7.3 4.0 3.2 14.5
  Provided    – – 1.8 1.8
  Utilised     (4.2) (0.3) (1.1) (5.6)
  Foreign currency adjustment    – – (0.2) (0.2)
     
  At 31 December 2006    3.1 3.7 3.7 10.5
     
   Analysed as:
   Current    – 0.3 0.6 0.9
   Non-current    3.1 3.4 3.1 9.6
     
       3.1 3.7 3.7 10.5
        
Warranty claims are in respect of potential warranty and other claims arising from the disposal of businesses.
Onerous lease provisions relate to the sale of the Permacell Finesse business as described in note 7. The provision has been 
discounted and is stated at its present value.
Other provisions consist mostly of amounts provided in respect of events arising from trade and various other provisions from 
Group companies that do not fit into distinct categories. The timing of cash outflows for warranty claims and other provisions are 
by their nature uncertain and dependent upon the outcome of related events. The best estimates are shown in the table above.  The Laird Group PLC    69
note
 28 Financial instruments
Financial assets
The financial assets of the Group comprised:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Cash and cash equivalents     44.0 23.9
  Trade and other receivables     123.5 97.0
  Other non-current assets     3.5 1.3
  
         171.0 122.2
          
Financial liabilities
The financial liabilities of the Group comprised:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Trade and other payables     108.2 95.9
  Borrowings      153.1 172.0
  Derivative financial instruments     1.5 1.4
  Other non-current liabilities     5.9 1.4
  
         268.7 270.7
          
Interest rate and currency profile
The Group’s policy is to maintain an appropriate balance between variable and fixed interest rate borrowings. Interest rate swaps 
and similar instruments are used to manage interest costs. $70.0m (£35.8m) of US Private Placement loans were swapped from 
fixed to variable interest rates for a five year term, expiring in 2009. Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 70
note
 28 Financial instruments (continued)
Interest rate risk profile of financial assets and liabilities
The interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group as at 31 December 2006 is as follows:
    Within 1 – 2 2 – 3 3 – 4 4 – 5 More than
    1 year Years Years Years Years 5 years Total
       
  Fixed rate
  $12.5m Loan Notes at
   7.24% due 2008 – 6.4 – – – – 6.4
  $25m Loan Notes at
   7.44% due 2012 – – – – – 12.8 12.8
  $97m Loan Notes at
   5.59% due 2014 – – – – – 49.2 49.2
  $12.5m Loan Notes at
   7.55% due 2014 – – – – – 6.4 6.4
  $43m Loan Notes at
   5.76% due 2016 – – – – – 21.8 21.8
  $2m Loan Notes at
   5% due 2007 1.0 – – – – – 1.0
  Finance lease obligations  0.2 0.1 – – – – 0.3
       
  Sub Total 1.2 6.5 – – – 90.2 97.9
       
  Floating rate 
  Cash (44.0) – – – – – (44.0)
  Bank overdrafts – – – – – – –
  Bilateral revolving bank loans – – – – 44.2 – 44.2
  $19m floating rate Loan Notes 2.6 2.7 4.6 – – – 9.9
  Short term bank loans 1.1 – – – – – 1.1
  Forward currency contracts 0.3 – – – – – 0.3
  Interest rate swaps* – – 1.2 – – – 1.2
       
  Sub Total (40.0) 2.7 5.8 – 44.2 – 12.7
       
  Total interest bearing assets
   and liabilities       110.6
  Non interest bearing assets
   and liabilities       (12.9)
       
          97.7
       
  *the effect of the interest rate swaps is discussed overleaf. The Laird Group PLC    71
note
 28 Financial instruments (continued)
The interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group as at 31 December 2005 is as follows:
    Within 1 – 2 2 – 3 3 – 4 4 – 5 More than
    1 year Years Years Years Years 5 years Total
       
  Fixed rate
  $5.5m Loan Notes at
   9.55% due 2006 3.2 – – – – – 3.2
  $12.5m Loan Notes at
   7.24% due 2008 – – 7.3 – – – 7.3
  $25m Loan Notes at
   7.44% due 2012 – – – – – 14.5 14.5
  $97m Loan Notes at
   5.59% due 2014 – – – – – 56.2 56.2
  $12.5m Loan Notes at
   7.55% due 2014 – – – – – 7.2 7.2
  $43m Loan Notes at
   5.76% due 2016 – – – – – 24.9 24.9
  Finance lease obligations  0.3 0.1 – – – – 0.4
       
  Sub Total 3.5 0.1 7.3 – – 102.8 113.7
       
  Floating rate
  Cash (23.9) – – – – – (23.9)
  Bank overdrafts 2.2 – – – – – 2.2
  Bilateral revolving bank loans – – – – 55.1 – 55.1
  Short term bank loans 1.0 – – – – – 1.0
  Interest rate swaps* – – – 1.4 – – 1.4
       
  Sub Total (20.7) – – 1.4 55.1 – 35.8
       
  Total interest bearing
   assets and liabilities       149.5
  Non interest bearing assets
   and liabilities       (1.0)
       
          148.5
       
*the effect of the interest rate swaps is discussed below.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial 
instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. 
Interest rate swaps
The Group holds an interest rate swap contract to manage interest rate exposure with an underlying notional principal amount of 
$70m. The contract is disclosed in accordance with IAS 32 and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. The contract has not 
been designated as a hedge and the increase in the fair value during 2006 of £0.2m, has been taken to the Income Statement.  Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 72
note
 28 Financial instruments (continued)
Cash flow hedges
At 31 December 2006 the Group held 34 (2005, nil) forward foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges of expected future 
purchases from overseas suppliers. The forward currency contracts are being used to hedge the foreign currency risk of these 
purchases. The terms of these contracts are for the Group to purchase a total of US$22,750,000 between 3 January 2007 and 
27 September 2007 at an average exchange rate of £/US$ 1.9093. The fair value movement in the period on these contracts 
was a loss of £0.3m (2005, £nil).
The currency profile of the financial assets of the Group is set out below:
As at 31 December 2006
       At fixed At floating No
       interest interest interest
       rates rates receivable Total
       £m £m £m £m
     
  Sterling    – 9.8 26.2 36.0
  US dollar    – 16.8 56.8 73.6
  Euro    – 4.8 8.9 13.7
  Renminbi    – 9.2 22.8 32.0
  Other    – 3.4 12.3 15.7
     
       – 44.0 127.0 171.0
        
As at 31 December 2005
       At fixed At floating No
       interest interest interest
       rates rates receivable Total
       £m £m £m £m
     
  Sterling    – 0.6 21.4 22.0
  US dollar    – 10.9 46.2 57.1
  Euro    – 1.5 5.5 7.0
  Renminbi    – 8.0 16.2 24.2
  Other    – 2.9 9.0 11.9
     
       – 23.9 98.3 122.2
         The Laird Group PLC    73
note
 28 Financial instruments (continued)
The currency profile of the financial liabilities of the Group is set out below:
As at 31 December 2006
       At fixed At floating No
       interest interest interest
       rates rates payable Total
       £m £m £m £m
     
  Sterling    0.3 0.6 31.6 32.5
  US dollar    97.6 38.2 36.1 171.9
  Euro    – – 18.0 18.0
  Renminbi    – 0.3 12.5 12.8
  Other    – 17.6 15.9 33.5
     
       97.9 56.7 114.1 268.7
        
As at 31 December 2005
       At fixed At floating No
       interest interest interest
       rates rates payable Total
       £m £m £m £m
     
  Sterling    0.4 31.3 29.9 61.6
  US dollar    113.3 18.2 35.5 167.0
  Euro    – – 2.1 2.1
  Renminbi    – 0.2 19.2 19.4
  Other    – 8.6 12.0 20.6
     
       113.7 58.3 98.7 270.7
        
Currency exposures
The Group’s revenues and profits are affected by currency movements on translating overseas revenues and profits into sterling 
for reporting purposes. The actual translation effects on cross border transactions which involve the sale of goods and services 
in currencies foreign to a Group entity are not significant taking into account that a number of currencies are pegged to the 
US dollar. The Group’s policy is for subsidiaries to take out forward foreign exchange contracts to cover their net transaction 
exposures to foreign currencies. 
The Group does not have any significant transactional currency exposures on financial assets and liabilities on which net currency 
gains and losses would be recognised in the Income Statement.
Net investment hedging
Included in borrowings are US $193.2m of debt (£98.7m) which have been designated as a hedge of the net investments in the 
United States subsidiaries, Czk 361.3m (£8.8m) designated as a hedge of the net investment in the Czech Republic subsidiary 
and Sek 115.1m (£8.6m) designated as a hedge of the net investment in Swedish subsidiaries. These amounts are being 
used to hedge the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments. Gains or losses on the retranslation of the 
borrowings are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries.
Credit risk
Laird Technologies’ customer base is largely focused in the global electronics market where it has leading positions in its principal 
products with customers who themselves have significant market shares. Inevitably, this results in levels of business and trade 
receivables that are material in the overall Group context. Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 74
note
 28 Financial instruments (continued)
Maturity of financial assets as at 31 December 
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  In one year or less      167.5 120.9
  Between one and two years     3.5 1.3
  
         171.0 122.2
          
Maturity of financial liabilities as at 31 December 
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  In one year or less      114.6 102.6
  Between one and two years     12.1 1.5
  Between two and three years     5.8 7.3
  Between three and four years     – 1.4
  Between four and five years     44.2 55.1
  Greater than five years      92.0 102.8
  
         268.7 270.7
          
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
The Group’s financial policy is to maintain committed borrowing facilities, which provide substantial headroom over and above its 
day to day borrowing requirements. 
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December were as follows:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Expiring between four and five years      150.8 139.5
  
         150.8 139.5
          
Loan covenants
The principal covenants in the Group’s committed loan facilities and loan note agreements that place restrictions on net 
borrowings are based on UK GAAP and are set out below:
Interest cover
The interest cover covenant is for earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax and amortisation (“EBITDA”) to be not less than 
2.5 times interest payable.
Net borrowings: EBITDA ratio
Net borrowings must not exceed 3.5 times earnings before depreciation, amortisation, exceptional items, interest and tax.
Consolidated net worth
The ratio of consolidated net worth to net debt must not exceed 1.25. Net worth is defined as Shareholders’ funds plus goodwill 
amortised or written off since 31 December 1995. Additionally net worth must not fall below £130m or fall in excess of 40% in 
any one fiscal year.
The Group was in compliance with the covenants detailed above at 31 December 2006.
Fair value of financial instruments
The US Private Placement loans with a book value of £96.6m have an estimated fair value of £96.0m (2005, £115.1m) which has 
been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing coupon rates as at 31 December 2006.
There are no material differences between fair value and book value on any of the other financial instruments. The Laird Group PLC    75
note
 29 Authorised and issued share capital
         2006 2005
  Authorised      £m £m
  
  280,000,000 (2005, 240,000,000) ordinary shares of 25p each   70.0 60.0
    
    2006 2005
  Issued and fully paid    Shares £m Shares £m
     
   Ordinary shares of 25p each
  At 1 January    159,780,676 40.0 157,927,259 39.5
  Issued by Right    37,602,512 9.4 – –
  Issued for deferred consideration   323,667 – 72,417 0.1
  Issued for exercise of share options   467,990 0.1 1,781,000 0.4
     
  At 31 December    198,174,845 49.5 159,780,676 40.0
     
During the year the issued share capital was increased by the issue of 38,394,169 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 
£9,598,542 for a consideration of £124,820,944. On 16 March 2006 the Company announced a 4 for 17 Rights Issue at
325 pence per new share. The Rights Issue raised £122.2m and Issue expenses were £4.8m. On 2 June 2006 323,667 ordinary 
shares were issued as part deferred consideration for the acquisition of Centurion Wireless Technologies, Inc. with a value of 
£1,484,013. 132,564 ordinary shares were issued under the Company’s 1994 executive share option scheme for a consideration 
of £432,981 and 335,426 ordinary shares were issued under the Company’s 2003 executive share option scheme for a 
consideration of £691,095. 198,174,845 ordinary shares of 25p each were in issue at the year end (2005, 159,780,676).
At 31 December 2006 options to subscribe for 3,261,420 ordinary shares at prices between 135p and 458p were outstanding 
under the Company’s executive share option schemes. Options outstanding under the schemes are held by 48 individuals and 
are exercisable at various times up to 19 March 2015. No further options have been granted since the year end.
 30 Share based payments
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 34 and 35, sets out the general terms and conditions including vesting requirements 
for all share based payment schemes; the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the 1994 Share Option Scheme and the 2003 
Executive Share Option Plans.
All share based payments are equity settled. An expense of £1.6m was recognised in the year (2005, £1.6m) before employer’s 
national insurance and was based on the fair value of the LTIPs shares awarded and the share options granted.
The schemes were amended to take account of the Rights Issue in 2006. The number of shares outstanding at the date of the 
Rights Issue were increased by a factor of 1.0605 and the exercise price of any options was adjusted by a factor of 0.9429. 
These factors were calculated using 464p, being the closing price on the date of 16 March 2006. Any historic figures in the tables 
that follow have been adjusted where necessary by these factors.
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, and those granted during the year.
         2006 2005
         Number Number
  
   Granted in 2003      513,289 513,289
   Granted in 2004      455,703 455,703
   Granted in 2005      533,441 –
  
   Outstanding as at 1 January     1,502,433 968,992
  Granted during the year      602,900 533,441
  Lapsed during the year      (608,105) –
  Vested and exercised during the year     (257,706) –
  
  Outstanding as at 31 December     1,239,522 1,502,433
    
Of the 1,239,522 shares outstanding at 31 December 2006, 255,583 had vested but had not been exercised. Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 76
note
 30 Share based payments (continued)
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options issued 
under the 1994 Share Option Scheme.
        2006  2005
       2006 WAEP 2005 WAEP
       Number (p) Number (p)
     
  Outstanding as at 1 January
   Option prices 132-236p   290,443 158 1,514,943 163
   Option prices 237-330p   196,193 291 568,193 243
   Option prices 331-431p   241,796 399 324,796 394
     
       728,432 274 2,407,932 213
  Exercised
   Option prices 132-236p   – – (1,224,500) 164
   Option prices 237-330p   (74,235) 289 (372,000) 275
   Option prices 331-431p   (58,329) 375 – –
  Expired    (26,513) 431 (83,000) 380
  Forfeited    (42,420) 402 – –
     
       526,935 243 728,432 274
     
  Outstanding as at 31 December
   Option prices 132-236p   290,443 159 290,443 158
   Option prices 237-330p   121,958 293 196,193 291
   Option prices 331-431p   114,534 403 241,796 399
     
       526,935 243 728,432 274
     
  Exercisable at 31 December   526,935 243 728,432 274
     
As at 1 January, options over 236,357 shares (2005, 236,257 shares) and at 31 December options over 236,357 shares (2005, 
236,357 shares) were issued and a charge recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 and resulted in a charge against profits. The 
balance of the share options were granted prior to 7 November 2002 and do not result in a charge against profits in accordance 
with the transitional arrangements of IFRS 2. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised 
was 383p (2005, 353p). For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2006, the weighted average remaining contractual 
life is 4.0 years (2005, 4.3 years). 
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options issued 
under the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan. The Laird Group PLC    77
note
 30 Share based payments (continued)
        2006  2005
       2006 WAEP 2005 WAEP
       Number (p) Number (p)
     
  Outstanding as at 1 January
   Option prices 132-236p   962,213 195 1,072,213 196
   Option prices 237-323p   1,994,497 298 1,005,536 272
   Option prices 324-458p   – – – –
     
       2,956,710 265 2,077,749 233
  Issued    398,000 458 1,088,961 324
  Exercised
   Option prices 132-236p   (285,611) 195 (110,000) 207
   Option prices 237-323p   (49,815) 269 (74,500) 296
   Option prices 324-458p   – – – –
  Forfeited    (284,799) 332 (25,500) 343
     
       2,734,485 293 2,956,710 265
     
  Outstanding as at 31 December
   Option prices 132-236p   676,602 195 962,213 195
   Option prices 237-323p   1,723,883 299 1,994,497 298
   Option prices 324-458p   334,000 458 – –
     
       2,734,485 293 2,956,710 265
     
  Exercisable at 31 December   676,602 195 20,000 239
     
All options in the table above were recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as noted above. The weighted average share price at 
the date of exercise for the options exercised was 380p (2005, 345p). For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2006, 
the weighted average remaining contractual life is 7.6 years (2005, 8.3 years). 149,532 options (2005, 202,532) in the price range 
132p to 236p, 504,282 options (2005, 596,653) in the price range 237p to 323p and 334,000 options (2005, nil) in the price range 
324p to 458p are subject to the higher performance targets set out in the table on page 35 of the Directors’ remuneration report.
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIPs shares were awarded including the market based performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. The non-market company performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
The weighted average fair value of LTIP awards during the year was 317p (2005, 184p) and of share options granted during the 
year was 119p (2005, 102p).
The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2006.
       LTIP LTIP ESOP ESOP
       2006 2005 2006 2005
     
  Dividend Yield (%)    2.75 3.25 2.75 3.25
  Expected Share Price volatility (%)   25 35 25 35
  Expected comparator volatility (%)   30 40 n/a n/a
  Risk-free interest rate (%)   n/a n/a 4.7 4.8
  Expected life of LTIP/option (years)   3.0 3.0 7.0 7.5
  Weighted average share price (p)   460.3 342.5 460.3 342.5
The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns 
that may occur. 
The expected volatility of the LTIP shares is based on historical volatility; average of monthly activity over the last three years. 
Expected volatility reflects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily 
prove to be the actual outcome. Dividends are not payable on the LTIP shares prior to vesting and this is taken into account in 
calculating the fair value. 
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting. Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 78
note
 31 Reconciliation of movements in equity
     Ordinary
     share Share Retained Translation  Treasury
     capital premium earnings reserve shares Total
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
       
  At 1 January 2005  39.5 152.2 121.1 (50.1) (2.9) 259.8
  Total recognised income 
   and expense for the year – – 12.1 21.7 – 33.8
  Exercise of share options  0.5 3.0 – – – 3.5
  Issue of shares on acquisition
   of businesses  – 0.3 – – – 0.3
  Share based payments  – – 1.6 – – 1.6
  Treasury shares    – – 0.2 0.2
  Dividends paid  – – (14.9) – – (14.9)
       
  At 1 January 2006  40.0 155.5 119.9 (28.4) (2.7) 284.3
  Total recognised income
   and expense for the year – – 53.5 (30.6) – 22.9
  Issue of shares –
   Rights Issue  9.4 108.2 – – – 117.6
  Exercise of share options  0.1 0.9 – – – 1.0
  Issue of shares on acquisition
   of businesses  – 1.4 – – – 1.4
  Share based payments  – – 1.6 – – 1.6
  Purchase of treasury shares – – – – (0.7) (0.7)
  Grant of LTIPs  – – (0.7) – 0.7 –
  Dividends paid  – – (19.4) – – (19.4)
       
  At 31 December 2006  49.5 266.0 154.9 (59.0) (2.7) 408.7
       
The investment in Laird shares as held by the Company ESOP Trust as described on page 37 of the Directors’ remuneration 
report are treated for accounting purposes as treasury shares. At 31 December 2006 the Trust held 996,118 shares (2005, 
1,015,000 shares) of which 255,583 relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan, the remaining shares are unallocated. The shares 
held by the Trust had a total market value at that date of £4.1m (2005, £4.3m). The Laird Group PLC    79
note
 32 Additional cash flow information
Cash generation from operations
  Continuing operations       2006 2005
         £m  £m
  
  Net profit after taxation      50.2 25.3
  Depreciation and other non-cash items
   Depreciation      13.2 12.0
   Amortisation of capitalised development costs    1.0 0.2
   Exceptional fixed asset write-downs     – 2.0
   Exceptional inventory write-downs     – 2.1
   Exceptional loss on disposal of business    – 0.7
   Profit on disposal of fixed assets     (0.7) –
   Capitalised development costs     (3.5) (2.6)
   Share based payments     1.6 1.6
   Amortisation of acquired intangible assets    7.1 4.4
   Financial instruments – fair value adjustment    (0.2) 1.1
   Pension charges       1.0 1.3
  Other net finance costs      9.9 10.4
  Taxation      16.2 9.0
  Pension contributions      (3.2) (7.6)
  Changes in working capital  
   Inventories       (6.8) (0.3)
   Trade and other receivables     (19.4) (9.3)
   Trade, other payables and provisions     14.4 5.5
  
  Cash generated from continuing operations    80.8 55.8
  
  Discontinued operations
  Net profit / (loss) after taxation     0.5 (5.1)
  Taxation      (2.6) (2.9)
  Loss on disposal of businesses before taxation    2.1 7.8
  Depreciation      – 0.8
  Changes in working capital     – (3.4)
  
  Cash flow from discontinued operations    – (2.8)
  
   Cash generated from operations     80.8 53.0
  
Notes
(a)  The working capital movement from continuing operations in 2006 includes a £0.5m outflow in respect of exceptional items 
provided for in 2005. In 2005 the working capital movement from continuing operations was reduced by provisions for 
exceptional items of £5.0m largely relating to an onerous lease provision. Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 80
note
 32 Additional cash flow information (continued)
 Net cash outflow on acquisitions and disposals
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Acquisition of businesses
  Consideration:
  Cash consideration      (97.6) (34.1)
  Net cash acquired      0.9 4.9
  
         (96.7) (29.2)
  Deferred consideration paid     (5.3) (6.5)
  
  Net cash outflow on acquisition of businesses    (102.0) (35.7)
  
  Borrowings acquired      (11.6) (0.3)
  
  Disposal of businesses 
  Consideration:
  Net cash consideration      (8.5) 6.9
  Net cash disposed of      – –
  
  Net cash (outflow) / inflow on disposal of businesses     (8.5) 6.9
  
Analysis of movements in net borrowings
     At     At
     1 January   Non-cash Exchange 31 December
  Period to 31 December 2006 2006 Cash flow Acquisitions changes differences 2006
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
       
  Cash at bank  23.9 22.5 – – (2.4) 44.0
  Overdrafts  (2.2) 2.2 – – – –
  Loans due within
   one year  (4.2) 3.0 (4.0) – 0.5 (4.7)
  Loans due after more
   than one year  (165.0) 8.1 (7.6) – 16.4 (148.1)
  Finance leases  (0.6) 0.3 – – – (0.3)
       
  Total  (148.1) 36.1 (11.6) – 14.5 (109.1)
       
     At     At
     1 January   Non-cash Exchange 31 December
  Period to 31 December 2005 2005 Cash flow Acquisitions changes differences 2005
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
       
  Cash at bank  22.2 (0.5) – – 2.2 23.9
  Overdrafts  (1.6) (0.2) – – (0.4) (2.2)
  Loans due within one year (4.7) 4.0 – (3.0) (0.5) (4.2)
  Loans due after more
   than one year  (133.8) (20.3) (0.1) 3.0 (13.8) (165.0)
  Finance leases  (0.7) 0.3 (0.2) – – (0.6)
       
  Total  (118.6) (16.7) (0.3) – (12.5) (148.1)
        The Laird Group PLC    81
note
 33 Post balance sheet events
The following non-adjusting events occurred after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements were approved: 
On 24 January 2007 the Group acquired AeroComm for a cash consideration of £19.1m on a debt free basis. On 26 February 
2007 the Group acquired M2sys Company Limited, for a cash consideration of £17.0m on a debt free basis and Cushcraft Inc., 
for a cash consideration of £45.9m on a debt free basis.
 34 Capital commitments
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Future capital expenditure not provided  in the accounts
    Contracts placed      6.9 4.1
          
 35 Contingent liabilities
There are legal claims against the Company or its subsidiary undertakings but none where the Board takes the view that it is likely 
that damages will be awarded against the Group which would have a materially adverse effect on its financial position. 
 36  Retirement benefit obligations
Pension schemes
The Group operates a number of pension schemes of both the defined benefit and defined contribution types.
Approximately 400 (2005, 500) employees are members of seven different defined benefit schemes and these schemes have 
approximately 1,900 (2005, 1,900) deferred and current pensioners. The employer contributions made to these schemes during 
the year was £3.2m (2005, £7.6m). 
The total assessed value of the schemes’ assets at 31 December 2006 at their market value is estimated at £83.2m (2005, 
£78.2m) and the liabilities estimated at £93.2m (2005, £94.6m). The resultant aggregate net pension liability under IAS 19 is 
£10.9m (2005, £16.4m), having taken into account the disallowed assets which relate to the surplus in the Group’s US Laird 
Technologies plan. Since last year equity markets have risen and coupled with the increase in corporate bond yields which has 
reduced the value of discounted liabilities, this has resulted in a reduced net pension liability. 
The market value of the schemes’ assets, the present value of the schemes’ liabilities and the net pension liability under IAS 19 at 
31 December were as follows:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Annuities      10.3 10.2
  Equities      45.5 41.6
  Gilts and bonds      27.3 20.8
  Other including cash      0.1 5.6
  
  Total market value of assets     83.2 78.2
  Present value of scheme liabilities     (93.2) (94.6)
  
  Funded status      (10.0) (16.4)
  
  Disallowed assets      (0.9) –
  
  Deficit in the schemes      (10.9) (16.4)
    
There are minor variations in the assumptions used by the different actuaries employed to value the separate schemes. The 
expected long term rates of return on gilts and bonds are estimated at 4.8% per annum (2005, 4.4%) and those for equities at 
7.8% per annum (2005, 7.8%). The returns on the annuities match the relevant liabilities.
Asset return assumptions have been derived by considering best estimates for the expected long term real rates of return from 
the main asset classes. For gilts and corporate bonds, a return in line with the returns available in the markets for these assets 
has been assumed. For equities, a higher rate of return than for bond assets has been assumed, to reflect the greater returns 
anticipated over the long term from a mixture of UK and overseas equities. Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006
The Laird Group PLC 82
note
 36  Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
The mortality assumption used at the year end is based on 92 series tables with an allowance for improvements in line with the 
medium cohort based on each member’s year of birth.
For IAS 19 the schemes’ liabilities have been calculated under the projected unit method and the main financial assumptions 
were inflation of 3.0% per annum (2005, 2.75%), salary increases of 4.0% per annum (2005, 3.75%) and a discount rate for 
liabilities of 5.1% per annum (2005, 4.75%). 
Analysis of the defined benefit cost for the year ended 31 December:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  Current service cost      1.9 1.9
  Past service cost      – –
  Gain on settlements or curtailments     (0.4) (0.7)
  
  Total charge to operating profit     1.5 1.2
  
  Expected return on pension investments     (4.9) (4.4)
  Interest on pension liabilities     4.4 4.3
  
  Total amount of expense relating to finance income    (0.5) 0.1
  
  Total charge to income statement before deduction of tax    1.0 1.3
  
The charge in respect of defined contribution plans was £2.5m during 2006 (2005, £3.2m).
Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows:
 2006 2005
      Funded Un-funded  Funded Un-funded
     Total plans plans Total plans plans
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
       
  As at 1 January  94.6 90.6 4.0 79.4 76.5 2.9
   Current service cost  1.9 1.5 0.4 1.9 1.5 0.4
   Past service cost  – – – – – –
   Interest cost  4.4 4.2 0.2 4.4 4.2 0.2
   Employee contributions 0.2 0.2 – 0.3 0.3 –
   Actuarial gains and losses (3.0) (3.2) 0.2 12.4 11.9 0.5
   Benefits paid  (3.8) (3.8) – (2.5) (2.5) –
   Settlement / curtailment gain (0.4) – (0.4) (1.8) (1.8) –
   Foreign currency differences (0.7) (0.7) – 0.5 0.5 –
       
  As at 31 December  93.2 88.8 4.4 94.6 90.6 4.0
       
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are analysed as follows:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
  
  As at 1 January      78.2 64.6
   Employer contributions     3.2 7.6
   Employee contributions     0.2 0.3
   Benefits paid      (3.8) (2.5)
   Expected return on assets     4.9 4.3
   Asset gain      1.2 5.2
   Settlement loss      – (1.1)
   Other      – (0.7)
   Foreign currency differences     (0.7) 0.5
  
  As at 31 December      83.2 78.2
  
Employer contributions of £3.2m during the year include £2.1m of additional payments made over and above regular contributions. The Laird Group PLC    83
note
 36  Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
History of experience gains and losses:
       2006 2005 2004 2003
       £m £m £m £m
     
  Fair value of plan assets    83.2 78.2 64.6 61.2
  Present value of defined benefit obligation   (93.2) (94.6) (79.4) (71.1)
     
  Funded status    (10.0) (16.4) (14.8) (9.9)
     
  Disallowed assets    (0.9) – – –
     
  (Deficit) in the scheme    (10.9) (16.4) (14.8) (9.9)
        
  Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities  – 1.9 – (0.8)
  Experience adjustments arising on plan assets  1.2 4.5 (0.1) 0.9
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense is 
a loss of £9.8m (2005, £14.0m) since 1 January 2004. The directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and 
losses that would have been recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense from the date of inception of 
the company schemes to 31 December 2003.
The Group estimates that the total value of contributions to defined benefit plans will be £3.4m in 2007, which is expected to 
include £2.1m of additional contributions to be paid over and above regular contributions.
Within Sweden, the Group operates a plan, included within a multiemployer plan, for its employees which is insured with Alecta. 
This scheme is a defined benefit plan, but Alecta is currently unable to provide sufficient information to report the Group’s 
proportional share of the defined benefit commitments and the assets under management and expenses associated with the 
plan. Consequently, Alecta cannot provide the information regarding the Group’s proportional share of the surplus or deficit in the 
plan. As a result the scheme is reported as if it were a defined contribution plan, although it is actually a defined benefit plan. The Laird Group PLC 84
The following were the principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2006. All subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned and 
operate principally in the country of incorporation or registration unless stated otherwise. The list excludes (under the provisions of 
section 231 of the Companies Act 1985) certain subsidiary undertakings which do not materially affect the accounts.
 Country of 
 incorporation
Name of company or registration  Nature of business
 
Laird Technologies 
AMC Centurion AB* Sweden Antennae and power products
AMC Centurion (Beijing) Co. Limited* China Antennae and power products
Antenex, Inc.* USA Antennae and power products
Cateron Technology Company Limited Taiwan EMI and thermal shielding
Centurion Electronics (Shanghai) Limited* China Antennae and power products
Centurion Wireless Technologies, Inc* USA Antennae and power products
Centurion Wireless Components (M) SDN. BHD* Malaysia Antennae and power products
Coolab AB* Sweden Thermal shielding
Laird Technologies Antennagyarto KFT* Hungary Antennae and power products
Laird Technologies GmbH.* Germany EMI and thermal shielding
Laird Technologies, Inc.* USA EMI and thermal shielding and holding company
Laird Technologies India Private Limited* India Antennae products
Laird Technologies Japan, Inc. * Japan EMI and thermal shielding
Laird Technologies Korea Y.H.* Korea EMI and thermal shielding
Laird Technologies Limited* England EMI and thermal shielding
Laird Technologies S.A.S. * France EMI and thermal shielding
Laird Technologies S. de R. L. de C. V. Mexico Antennae and power products
Laird Technologies (SEA) PTE Limited* Singapore EMI and thermal shielding
Laird Technologies (Shanghai) Limited* China EMI and thermal shielding
Laird Technologies (Shenzhen) Limited* China EMI and thermal shielding
Laird Technologies S.R.O.* Czech Republic EMI and thermal shielding
Laird Technologies Taiwan, Inc. Taiwan EMI and thermal shielding
Melcor Corporation* USA Thermal shielding
R&F Products, Inc. * USA EMI and thermal shielding
Receptec Corp.* USA Antennae products
Receptec GmbH* Germany Antennae products
Steward, Inc.* USA Signal integrity products
Tianjin Laird Technologies Limited* China EMI and thermal shielding
Thermagon, Inc* USA Thermal shielding
 
Laird Security Systems 
Amesbury Door Hardware, Inc* USA Window and door hardware
Amesbury Group, Inc.* USA Building seals and holding company
Amesbury Group – Plastics Profiles, Inc.* USA Window components
Balance Systems, Inc.* USA Window components
Balance UK Limited* England Window components
Bandlock Corporation* Canada Window components and door hardware
ERA Products Limited*  England Security locks and hinges
EWS (Manufacturing) Limited* England Window components
Fastek Products, Inc* USA Window components
Intron Limited (“Homesafe”)* England Composite doors
Laird Lifestyle Products Limited* England Conservatories and doors
Laird Security Hardware Limited* England Window components and door hardware
Laird Security Systems (Ningbo) Limited* China Window components and door hardware
Lindman Limited* England Composite doors
Linear Limited* England Building seals
LSSD UK Limited England Building products
Securidor Limited* England Composite doors
Ventrolla Limited* England Weather seal installation
* Held by a subsidiary undertaking
Principal subsidiaries The Laird Group PLC    85
Trading results   2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
      £m £m £m £m £m
     
Revenue 
– continuing operations   608.3 490.3 345.5 270.1 261.7
– discontinued operations   – 18.4 123.3 158.7 231.6
     
 Total revenue   608.3 508.7 468.8 428.8 493.3
     
Operating profit 
– continuing operations    83.2 65.8 47.4 34.4 30.2
– discontinuing operations   – (0.2) 4.5 7.0 4.1
     
      83.2 65.6 51.9 41.4 34.3
Exceptional items   – (15.5) – (5.9) (14.4)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets  (7.1) (4.4) (1.2) (10.6) (10.6)
(Loss) / profit on disposal of business  (2.1) (7.8) 3.6 – (58.8)
Finance charges   (9.9) (10.5) (5.6) (4.0) (4.9)
Financial instruments – fair value adjustment  0.2 (1.1) – – –
     
Profit before tax   64.3 26.3 48.7 20.9 (54.4)
Taxation    (13.6) (6.1) (11.5) 2.9 (5.8)
     
Profit / (loss) after tax   50.7 20.2 37.2 23.8 (60.2)
     
Underlying profit    73.3 55.1 46.4 37.4 29.4
     
Non-current assets   519.9 447.7 390.4 245.0 244.0
Other current assets   237.8 180.7 163.2 37.0 46.7
     
Net borrowings   109.1 148.1 118.6 60.1 66.6
     
Shareholders’ equity   408.7 284.3 260.2 193.8 199.9
     
Basic earnings per share    26.5p 15.1p 25.5p 16.8p (42.5)p
Basic underlying earnings per share  31.7p 27.3p 26.3p 21.6p 15.8p
Dividends per share   10.3p 9.56p 9.2p 8.6p 8.3p
Dividend cover   2.5 1.3 2.6 1.9 –
This information is prepared under IFRS for 2006, 2005 and 2004 and UK GAAP for 2003 and 2002 with presentational changes to the 
2005 and 2004 information to align it with UK GAAP disclosure.
Five year summary The Laird Group PLC 86
Financial calendar
31 December 2006  Financial year end
19 March 2007 Announcement of results
11 May 2007 Annual General Meeting
25 May 2007 Record date for final dividend
22 June 2007 Payment of final dividend
September 2007 Announcement of half year results
November 2007 Normal record date for interim    
  dividend
December 2007 Normal payment date for interim   
  dividend 
31 December 2007 Financial year end 
Administrative enquiries
Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in The Laird 
Group PLC, such as the loss of a share certificate, dividend 
payments, or a change of address should be directed, in the first 
instance, to the Registrar whose address is:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway,
Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone 0870 600 3970
Telephone (overseas) +44 121 415 7047
www.shareview.co.uk
Correspondence should refer to The Laird Group Public Limited 
Company and state clearly the registered name and address 
of the shareholder. Please notify the Registrar promptly of any 
change of address.
Analysis of shareholders as at 31 December 2006
 Number  Total  
Size of shareholding of holders % of total holding % of total
    
Up to 5,000 shares 3,420 85.0 3,355,500 1.7
5,001 to 50,000 shares 338 8.4 5,599,801 2.8
50,001 to 200,000 shares 126 3.1 14,294,802 7.2
Over 200,000 shares 140 3.5 174,924,742 88.3
    
Total 4,024 100.0 198,174,845 100.0
    
Dividend bank mandates
Should you wish dividends to be paid directly into a bank or 
building society account and notification to be sent to your 
shareholder register address, please contact the Company’s 
Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, for a dividend mandate form.
Advisers
Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
Financial advisers 
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Principal bankers
HSBC Bank plc
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Principal lawyers
Ashurst
Pinsent Masons
Proskauer Rose LLP
Shareholder information The Laird Group PLC    87
THE LAIRD GROUP PLC
PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS
  Page
Statement of directors’ responsibilities  88
Independent auditors’ report 89
Parent company balance sheet 90
Notes to the financial statements of parent company 91 The Laird Group PLC 88
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the independent auditors set out on page 89, is 
made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the 
accounts.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Company for the financial year.
The directors consider that in compiling the accounts on pages 90 to 100, which have been prepared on a going concern basis, the 
Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and 
estimates and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the 
financial position of the Company which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors, having prepared the accounts, note that the auditors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to take whatever steps and 
undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
in relation to the accounts The Laird Group PLC    89
We have audited the parent company financial statements of The Laird Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the 
Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 16. These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out 
therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of The Laird Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited in 
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the 
parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the parent company 
Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the Director’s report includes the specific information 
that is cross referenced from the Business Review section of the Directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company 
financial statements. The other information comprises only the unaudited part of the Directors’ remuneration report, the Chairman’s 
statement, the Chief Executive’s report and review, the Finance Director’s report and the Corporate governance report. We consider 
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company 
financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates 
and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order 
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In 
forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
  the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2006; 
  the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
  the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
London
16 March 2007 
Notes :
1.  The maintenance and integrity of The Laird Group PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the 
auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that 
may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of The Laird Group PLC The Laird Group PLC 90
         2006 2005
        Note £m £m
  
 Fixed assets 
 Tangible assets     2 0.3 0.2
 Investments     3 417.6 420.2
 Other non-current asset derivatives     17.0 15.6
 Other non-current assets     4 204.8 193.0
Deferred tax asset      1.1 –
  
         640.8 629.0
          
 
 Current assets 
 Trade and other receivables     5 121.8 57.9
 Cash at bank      3.5 –
  
         125.3 57.9
          
 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
 Borrowings     6 (0.2) (5.1)
 Derivative financial instruments      (12.8) (1.4)
 Other       8 (5.4) (4.2)
  
         (18.4) (10.7)
          
Net current assets       106.9 47.2
 
Total assets less current liabilities     747.7 676.2
 
 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 
 Borrowings     6 (115.2) (136.2)
 Other       8 (210.5) (237.3)
 Provisions for liabilities and charges     10 – (2.9)
 Pension liability     11 (9.5) (14.8)
  
         412.5 285.0
          
 Capital and reserves 
 Ordinary share capital     12 49.5 40.0
 Share premium account     13 266.0 155.5
 Special reserve     13 55.5 55.5
 Retained earnings     13 44.2 36.7
 Treasury shares     13 (2.7) (2.7)
  
 Equity shareholders’ funds      412.5 285.0
  
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 March 2007 and were signed on its behalf by:
P J HILL
J C SILVER
Directors
Parent company balance sheet
as at 31 December The Laird Group PLC    91
Financial statements of parent company
 1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation 
The accounts of The Laird Group PLC have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with UK 
accounting principles (including applicable accounting standards). The financial statements present information about the 
Company as an individual undertaking and not about the Group.
Profit and loss
As permitted by the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has not presented its own profit and 
loss account. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation of fixed assets evenly over their expected useful lives, principally as 
follows:
Computer equipment 5 years or less
Motor vehicles  4 years
Other plant and machinery 13 years or less
A proportion of one year’s depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Pensions
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to the operating profit or loss in the 
year. The full cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service and gains and losses arising on unanticipated 
settlements or curtailments are also charged to the operating profit or loss in the year. The expected return on the assets of 
the schemes during the year based on the market value of scheme assets at the start of the year and the expected increase in 
liabilities of the schemes are included within other finance (charges)/income. Differences between actual and expected returns on 
assets during the year are recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses in the year together with differences from 
changes in assumptions. The deficit on defined benefit pension schemes, net of deferred tax, is reported on the balance sheet as 
the pension liability. The accounts include pension schemes where the parent company is the principle employer.
The Company has adopted the amendment to FRS 17 “Retirement Benefits” that permits companies to replace the existing 
disclosure requirements of FRS 17 with those of IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but which have not reversed at the balance 
sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more or a right to pay 
less or to receive more, tax subject to the following:
(a)  Deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary assets such as property unless a binding sale agreement 
exists at the balance sheet date. Where rollover relief is available on an asset then deferred tax is not recognised.
(b)  Deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries unless dividends have been accrued as receivable or 
there is a binding agreement to distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date.
(c)  Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Assets are regarded as recoverable 
when it is regarded as more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying 
timing differences can be deducted.
Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets and 
liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Financial assets 
Debtors are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Where the time value of 
money is material, debtors are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Company 
will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote. 
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Gains and 
losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired. 
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment. Trade and other receivables are 
discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, inclusive of any transaction costs. Measurement after initial recognition is 
at amortised cost, with the changes in the carrying amount being taken through the profit and loss account.
Notes to the financial statements of parent company
for the year ended 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC 92
 1. Accounting policies (continued)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains 
and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance 
income and finance expense.
Derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as currency swap contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks 
associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. From 1 January 2005, such derivative financial instruments are 
initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair 
value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar 
maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken in the 
profit and loss account. 
Share based payments
In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 20, the expense recognised in the Company profit and loss account relates 
to equity settled grants made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on 1 January 2005.
The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) shares awarded is estimated at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo 
simulation technique, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including market 
based performance conditions. The fair value of share options granted is estimated at the date of grant using a binomial lattice 
method of calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. Non-market 
company performance conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
For grants that ultimately do not vest charges previously made are reversed except that an expense is recognised for awards 
where vesting is conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market 
condition is satisfied, provided all the other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as 
described above. 
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and loss account, with a 
corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not 
been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share based 
payment, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation 
or settlement, and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately. 
 2. Tangible assets
The fixed assets of the Company were acquired at a cost of £0.7m (2005, £0.7m) and have accumulated depreciation  
of £0.4m (2005, £0.5m) charged against them. There were additions of £0.2m and net disposals of £nil during the year and 
depreciation in the year was £0.1m.
 3. Investments in subsidiaries 
         2006 2005
         £m £m
     
  Shares in subsidiaries at cost     464.1 464.1
  Less provisions for diminution in value     (46.5) (43.9)
     
         417.6 420.2
          
Principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2006 are disclosed in the The Laird Group PLC consolidated financial 
statements on page 84.
Notes to the financial statements of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    93
 3. Investments in subsidiaries (continued)  
The movement in the cost of shares in subsidiaries during the year was as follows:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
     
  At 1 January      420.2 410.7
  Additions      – 109.8
  Disposals      – (97.7)
  Provision for diminution in value     (2.6) (2.6)
     
  At 31 December      417.6 420.2
     
 4. Other non-current assets 
         2006 2005
         £m £m
     
  Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings    204.8 193.0
     
         204.8 193.0
          
 5. Debtors  
         2006 2005
         £m £m
     
  Trade debtors      – –
  Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings    116.9 54.2
  Prepayments and accrued income     1.0 1.8
  Taxation      3.9 1.9
     
         121.8 57.9
          
 6. Borrowings
         2006 2005
         £m £m
     
  Due within one year:
  Short term borrowings      – –
  Bank overdrafts      0.2 5.1
     
         0.2 5.1
     
  Due after more than one year: 
  US Private Placement loans 2014/2016     71.0 81.1
  Other term loans      44.2 55.1
     
         115.2 136.2
     
  Total borrowings      115.4 141.3
     
  Borrowings are repayable as follows: 
  Within one year 
   Bank overdraft      0.2 5.1
  Between two and five years 
   Bank overdraft      44.2 55.1
  In five years or more 
   Other      71.0 81.1
     
  Total borrowings      115.4 141.3
     
Notes
(a) Company borrowings are unsecured. 
(b) Bank overdrafts are stated after applying bank account offset agreements.
(c)  US Private Placement loans, arising from private placements of debt with US insurance companies, comprise Senior Notes of 
$140m repayable between 2014 and 2016 at an average fixed rate of interest of 5.64%.
(d) The Company had committed bilateral bank loan facilities of £195m which were underwritten for in excess of four years.  The Laird Group PLC 94
 7. Financial instruments 
For 2006, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 25 “Financial Instruments: Disclosure and 
Presentation” for parent Company accounts. 
 8. Other creditors  
         2006 2005
         £m £m
     
  Due within one year: 
  Social security costs      0.2 0.2
  Dividend payable      – –
  Other creditors      1.2 1.6
  Accruals and deferred income     4.0 2.4
     
         5.4 4.2
     
  Due after more than one year: 
  Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings     209.4 236.2
  Taxation      1.1 1.1
     
         210.5 237.3
     
 9. Deferred taxation 
The main components of deferred tax included within non current assets are as follows: 
         2006
         £m
    
  Deferred tax on pension liabilities     –
  Chargeable gains      0.7
  Other timing differences      (1.8)
    
         (1.1)
         
Movements during the year were: 
          £m
   
  At 1 January 2006        1.3
  Provided in the year       (1.1)
  Released in the year       (1.3)
   
  At 31 December 2006       (1.1)
   
 10. Provisions for liabilities and charges 
        Deferred  
        tax Other Total
        £m £m £m
     
  At 1 January 2006     1.3 1.6 2.9
  Provided     (1.1) – (1.1)
  Released     (1.3) (1.6) (2.9)
  Transferred to non current assets    1.1 – 1.1
     
  At 31 December 2006     – – –
     
Notes to the financial statements of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    95
 11. Pension schemes
The Company operates three defined benefit schemes.
Approximately 60 (2005, 60) employees are members of these defined benefit schemes and these schemes have approximately 
1,600 (2005, 1,600) deferred and current pensioners. The employer contributions made to these schemes during the year was 
£3.0m (2005, £5.9m). 
The total assessed value of the schemes’ assets at 31 December 2006 at their market value is estimated at £72.0m (2005, 
£66.8m) and the liabilities estimated at £81.5m (2005, £81.6m). The resultant aggregate net pension liability under IAS 19 is 
£9.5m (2005, £14.8m). Since last year equity markets have risen and coupled with the increase in corporate bond yields which 
has reduced the value of discounted liabilities, this has resulted in a reduced net pension liability.
The market value of the schemes’ assets, the present value of the schemes’ liabilities and the net pension liability under FRS 17 
at 31 December were as follows:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
     
  Annuities      10.3 10.2
  Equities      41.0 36.5
  Gilts and bonds      20.7 14.6
  Other including cash      – 5.5
     
  Total market value of assets     72.0 66.8
  Present value of scheme liabilities     (81.5) (81.6)
     
  Deficit in the schemes      (9.5) (14.8)
     
There are minor variations in the assumptions used by the different actuaries employed to value the separate schemes. The 
expected long term rates of return on gilts and bonds are estimated at 4.8% per annum (2005, 4.4%) and those for equities at 
7.8% per annum (2005, 8.0%). The returns on the annuities match the relevant liabilities.
Asset return assumptions have been derived by considering best estimates for the expected long term real rates of return from 
the main asset classes. For gilts and corporate bonds, a return in line with the returns available in the markets for these assets 
has been assumed. For equities, a higher rate of return than for bond assets has been assumed, to reflect the greater returns 
anticipated over the long term from a mixture of UK and overseas equities.
The mortality assumption used at the year end is based on 92 series tables with an allowance for improvements in line with the 
medium cohort based on each member’s year of birth.
For IAS 19 the schemes’ liabilities have been calculated under the projected unit method and the main financial assumptions 
were inflation of 3.0% per annum (2005, 2.75%), salary increases of 4.0% per annum (2005, 3.75%) and a discount rate for 
liabilities of 5.1% per annum (2005, 4.75%).
Analysis of the defined benefit cost for the year ended 31 December:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
     
  Current service cost      1.8 0.9
  Past service cost      – –
  Gain on settlements or curtailments     (0.4) –
     
  Total charge to operating profit     1.4 0.9
  Expected return on pension investments     (4.3) (0.9)
  Interest on pension liabilities     3.8 1.2
     
  Total amount of expense relating to finance income    (0.5) 0.3
     
  Total charge to income statement before deduction of tax    0.9 1.2
      The Laird Group PLC 96
 11. Pension schemes (continued)
Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
     
  As at 1 January      81.6 20.3
   Current service cost      1.8 0.9
   Past service cost      – –
   Interest cost      3.8 1.2
   Employee contributions     0.2 0.1
   Actuarial gains and losses     (2.3) 3.6
   Benefits paid      (3.2) (0.8)
   Settlement/curtailment gain     (0.4) –
   Foreign currency differences     – –
   Acquisition      – 56.3
     
  As at 31 December      81.5 81.6
     
The defined benefit obligation comprises £4.4m (2005, £4.0m) arising from an unfunded plan, and £77.1m (2005, £77.6m) from 
plans that are wholly or partly funded.
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are analysed as follows:
         2006 2005
         £m £m
     
  As at 1 January      66.8 14.8
   Employer contributions     3.0 2.0
   Employee contributions     0.2 0.1
   Benefits paid      (3.2) (0.8)
   Expected return on assets     4.3 0.9
   Asset gain/(loss)      0.9 1.9
   Settlement gain/(loss)     – –
   Acquisition      – 47.9
   Foreign currency differences     – –
     
  As at 31 December      72.0 66.8
     
Employer contributions of £3.0m during the year include £2.1m of additional payments made over and above regular 
contributions.
The acquisition relates to the merger of the Cego Pension Plan with The Laird Group 1977 Benefits Plan.
History of experience gains and losses:
       2006 2005 2004 2003
       £m £m £m £m
       
  Fair value of plan assets    72.0 66.8 14.8 14.9
  Present value of defined benefit obligation   (81.5) (81.6) (20.6) (18.1)
       
  (Deficit) in the scheme    (9.5) (14.8) (5.8) (3.2)
       
  Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities  – 0.5 0.5 0.3
  Experience adjustments arising on plan assets  0.9 1.9 (0.8) (1.7)
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense is a gain 
of £1.4m (2005, £2.1m). The directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been 
recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense from the date of inception of the company schemes to 
31 December 2003.
The estimated total value of contributions to defined benefit plans will be £3.2m in 2007, which is expected to include £2.1m of 
additional contributions to be paid over and above regular contributions.
Notes to the financial statements of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    97
 12. Authorised and issued share capital
         2006 2005
  Authorised      £m £m
     
  280,000,000 (2005, 240,000,000) ordinary shares of 25p each   70.0 60.0
     
 
       2006 2005
  Issued and fully paid    Shares £m Shares £m
       
  Ordinary shares of 25p each
  At 1 January    159,780,676 40.0 157,927,259 39.5
  Issued    38,394,169 9.5 1,853,417 0.5
       
  At 31 December    198,174,845 49.5 159,780,676 40.0
       
During the year the issued share capital was increased by the issue of 38,394,169 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 
£9,598,542 for a consideration of £124,820,944. On 15 March 2006 the Company announced a 4 for 17 Rights Issue at 325 
pence per new share. The Rights Issue raised £122.2m and Issue expenses were £4.8m. On 2 June 2006 323,667 ordinary 
shares were issued as part deferred consideration for the acquisition of Centurion Wireless Technologies, Inc. with a value of 
£1,484,013. 132,564 ordinary shares were issued under the Company’s 1994 executive share option scheme for a consideration 
of £432,981 and 335,426 ordinary shares were issued under the Company’s 2003 executive share option scheme for a 
consideration of £691,095. 198,174,845 ordinary shares of 25p each were in issue at the year end (2005, 159,780,676).
 13. Shareholders’ funds
        Profit Investment 
     Share Share Special and loss in own 
     capital premium reserve account shares Total
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
         
  At 1 January 2005  39.5 152.2 55.5 68.1 (2.9) 312.4
  Total recognised gains
     and losses  – – – (18.1) – (18.1)
  Exercise of share options  0.5 3.0 – – – 3.5
  Issue of shares on
     acquisition of businesses – 0.3 – – – 0.3
  Share based payments  – – – 1.6 – 1.6
  Investment in own shares – – –  0.2 0.2
  Dividends paid  – – – (14.9) – (14.9)
         
  At 1 January 2006  40.0 155.5 55.5 36.7 (2.7) 285.0
  Total recognised gains
     and losses  – – – 26.0 – 26.0
  Issue of shares – Rights Issue 9.4 108.2 – – – 117.6
  Exercise of share options  0.1 0.9 – – – 1.0
  Issue of shares on
     acquisition of businesses – 1.4 – – – 1.4
  Share based payments  – – – 1.6 – 1.6
  Purchase of Treasury shares – – – – (0.7) (0.7)
  Grant of LTIPs  – – – (0.7) 0.7 –
  Dividends paid  – – – (19.4) – (19.4)
         
  At 31 December 2006  49.5 266.0 55.5 44.2 (2.7) 412.5
         
The investment in own shares are those held by the Company ESOP Trust as described on page 37 of the Directors’ 
remuneration report. At 31 December 2006 the Trust held 996,118 shares (2005, 1,015,000 shares) of which 255,583 relate to 
the Long Term Incentive Plan. The shares held by the Trust had a total market value at that date of £4.1m (2005, £4.3m).
A profit after taxation of £22.8m (2005, loss of £7.1m) has been credited to the profit and loss account brought forward of the 
Company after crediting exchange gains of £5.9m (2005, losses of £6.2m) and crediting dividends from subsidiary undertakings 
of £40.2m (2005, £1.8m). Movements on equity not recognised in the profit and loss account were £3.1m. The special reserve of 
£55.5m was created by a transfer from the share premium account under High Court Sanction in December 1989. No profit and 
loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. The Laird Group PLC 98
 14. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2006 the Company had contingent liabilities as follows:
(a) guarantees in respect of US Private Placement loans of £25.5m (2005, £32.3m); and
(b) guarantees relating to the performance of contracts of subsidiary undertakings.
There are legal claims against the Company but none where the Board takes the view that it is likely that damages will be 
awarded against the Group which would have a materially adverse effect on its financial position. 
 15. Share based payments
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 34 and 35, sets out the general terms and conditions including vesting requirements 
for all share based payment schemes; the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the 1994 Share Option Scheme and the 2003 
Executive Share Option Schemes.
All share based payments are equity settled. An expense of £1.6m was recognised in the year (2005, £1.6m) before employer’s 
national insurance and was based on the fair value of the LTIPs shares awarded and the share options granted.
The schemes were amended to take account of the Rights Issue in 2006. The number of shares outstanding at the date of the 
Rights Issue were increased by a factor of 1.0605 and the exercise price of any options was adjusted by a factor of 0.9429. 
These factors were calculated using 464p, being the closing price on the date of 16 March 2006. Any historic figures in the tables 
that follow have been adjusted where necessary by these factors.
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards, in issue at the beginning of the year, and those granted during the year.
         2006 2005
         Number Number
     
   Granted in 2003      513,289 513,289
   Granted in 2004      455,703 455,703
  Granted in 2005      533,441 –
     
   Outstanding as at 1 January     1,502,433 968,992
  Granted during the year      602,900 533,441
  Lapsed during the year      (608,105) –
  Vested and exercised during the year     (257,706) –
     
  Outstanding as at 31 December     1,239,522 1,502,433
     
Of the 1,239,522 shares outstanding at 31 December 2006, 255,583 had vested but had not been exercised.
Notes to the financial statements of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    99
 15. Share based payments (continued)
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options issued 
under the 1994 Share Option Scheme.
        2006  2005
       2006 WAEP 2005 WAEP
       Number (p) Number (p)
       
  Outstanding as at 1 January 
   Option prices 132-236p   290,443 158 1,514,943 163
   Option prices 237-330p   196,193 291 568,193 243
   Option prices 331-431p   241,796 399 324,796 394
       
       728,432 274 2,407,932 213
  Exercised 
   Option prices 132-236p   – – (1,224,500) 164
   Option prices 237-330p   (74,235) 289 (372,000) 275
   Option prices 331-431p   (58,329) 375 – –
  Expired    (26,513) 431 (83,000) 380
  Forfeited    (42,420) 402 – –
       
       526,935 243 728,432 274
       
  Outstanding as at 31 December 
   Option prices 132-236p   290,443 159 290,443 158
   Option prices 237-330p   121,958 293 196,193 291
   Option prices 331-431p   114,534 403 241,796 399
       
       526,935 243 728,432 274
       
  Exercisable at 31 December   526,935 243 728,432 274
       
As at 1 January, options over 236,357 shares (2005, 236,257 shares) and at 31 December options over 236,357 shares (2005, 
236,357 shares) were issued and a charge recognised in accordance with FRS 20 and resulted in a charge against profits. The 
balance of the share options were granted prior to 7 November 2002 and do not result in a charge against profits in accordance 
with the transitional arrangements of FRS 20. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised 
was 383p (2005, 353p). For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2006, the weighted average remaining contractual 
life is 4.0 years (2005, 4.3 years). 
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options issued 
under the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan.
        2006  2005
       2006 WAEP 2005 WAEP
       Number (p) Number (p)
       
  Outstanding as at 1 January 
   Option prices 132-236p   962,213 195 1,072,213 196
   Option prices 237-323p   1,994,497 298 1,005,536 272
   Option prices 324-458p   – – – –
       
       2,956,710 265 2,077,749 233
  Issued    398,000 458 1,088,961 324
  Exercised 
   Option prices 132-236p   (285,611) 195 (110,000) 207
   Option prices 237-323p   (49,815) 269 (74,500) 296
   Option prices 324-458p   – – – –
  Forfeited    (284,799) 332 (25,500) 343
       
       2,734,485 293 2,956,710 265
       
  Outstanding as at 31 December 
   Option prices 132-236p   676,602 195 962,213 195
   Option prices 237-323p   1,723,883 299 1,994,497 298
   Option prices 324-458p   334,000 458 – –
       
       2,734,485 293 2,956,710 265
       
  Exercisable at 31 December   676,602 195 20,000 239
        The Laird Group PLC 100
 15. Share based payments (continued)
All options in the table above were recognised in accordance with FRS 20 as noted above. The weighted average share price at 
the date of exercise for the options exercised was 380p (2005, 345p). For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2006, 
the weighted average remaining contractual life is 7.6 years (2005, 8.3 years). 149,532 options (2005, 202,532) in the price range 
132p to 236p, 504,282 options (2005, 596,653) in the price range 237p to 323p and 334,000 options (2005, nil) in the price 
range 324p to 458p are subject to the higher performance targets set out in the table on page 35 of the Directors’ remuneration 
report.
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP’s shares were awarded including the market based performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. The non-market company performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
The weighted average fair value of LTIP awards during the year was 317p (2005, 184p) and of share options granted during the 
year was 119p (2005, 102p).
The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2006.
       LTIP LTIP ESOP ESOP
       2006 2005 2006 2005
       
  Dividend Yield (%)    2.75 3.25 2.75 3.25
  Expected Share Price volatility (%)   25 35 25 35
  Expected comparator volatility (%)   30 40 n/a n/a
  Risk-free interest rate (%)   n/a n/a 4.7 4.8
  Expected life of LTIP/option (years)   3.0 3.0 7.0 7.5
  Weighted average share price (p)   460.3 342.5 460.3 342.5
The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns 
that may occur. 
The expected volatility of the LTIP shares is based on historical volatility; average of monthly activity over the last three years. 
Expected volatility reflects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily 
prove to be the actual outcome. Dividends are not payable on the LTIP shares prior to vesting and this is taken into account in 
calculating the fair value. 
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting.
 16. Auditors’ remuneration
The Company paid £25,000 (2005, £25,000) to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Company.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual 
accounts of The Laird Group PLC because group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a 
consolidated basis.
Notes to the financial statements of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC    101
     Definition
Revenue from acquisitions (£m)   Prior year revenue from acquisitions made in the current year and prior year revenue for 
the period not in Laird ownership for acquisitions made in the prior year
Organic revenue growth (%)   Current year continuing revenue divided by prior year continuing revenue. Prior year 
continuing revenue is adjusted by adding in revenue from acquisitions (as per above), to 
provide a meaningful comparison year on year
LT expenditure on R&D as a % of sales  Laird Technologies expenditure on research and development as a % of Laird 
Technologies revenue
Return on capital employed (%)   Underlying profit before interest and tax expressed as a % of the average capital employed 
for the Group over the year
Greenhouse gas emissions
(kg/ £ million of revenue)
   Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated by applying specific factors to power 
consumption, which is then expressed as a % of revenue
Waste to landfill sites
(kg/ £ million of revenue)
  Total waste to land fill sites expressed as a % of revenue
Underlying earnings   Underlying profit before tax less the underlying tax charge
Underlying EPS (pence)    Underlying earnings divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during 
the year
Underlying profit before tax (£m)   Profit before tax excluding the effect of exceptional items, amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or 
loss on disposal of businesses and the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial 
instruments
Underlying profit before 
interest and tax (£m)
   The net interest charge excluding the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial 
instruments per the income statement is added back to underlying profit before tax
Underlying operating profit margin (%) Underlying profit before interest and tax is expressed as a % of total revenue
Underlying tax charge    The tax charge per the income statement is adjusted to exclude the effect of discontinued 
operations, exceptional items and deferred tax on acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
Effective tax rate (%)   The underlying tax charge expressed as a % of underlying profit before tax
Group interest cover    The ratio of underlying profit before interest and tax to the annual interest charge within the 
income statement
Operating cash conversion (%)   Operating cash flow expressed as a % of underlying profit before tax plus the interest 
charge per the income statement
Net debt: EBITDA     The ratio of Group net debt to underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation Designed and produced by Appetite  Printed by royle corporate print  The Laird Group PLC
100 Pall Mall
London SW1Y 5NQ
020 7468 4040
www.laird-plc.com
2006
Annual Report and Accounts
The Laird Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
The Laird Group PLC
MAC_RF62897_1_COV_SPR.indd   1 MAC_RF62897_1_COV_SPR.indd   1 30/3/07   18:41:18 30/3/07   18:41:18
