 Technology for a connected world
Annual Report and  
Accounts 2007
Value through Innovation   Contents
  01  Financial highlights
  03   Chairman’s statement
  04  Chief Executive’s review
  28  Finance Director’s report
  32  Board of Directors
  34  Directors’ report
  38  Corporate governance report
  41  Corporate social responsibility
  45  Directors’ remuneration report
  52  Statement of directors’ responsibilities
  53  Independent auditors’ report – Group IFRS
  54  Group income statement
  55  Statement of recognised income and expense
  56  Group balance sheet
  57  Group cash flow statement
  58  Notes to the financial statements
  58  Accounting policies
  94  Principal subsidiaries
  95  Five year summary
  96  Shareholder information
  97  Parent company accounts
  98  Statement of directors’ responsibilities
  99  Independent auditors’ report – Company UK GAAP
100  Parent company balance sheet
101  Notes to the financial statements of parent company
Designed and produced by Appetite • Illustrator Paul Wearing. Printed by royle print, a Carbon Neutral printing company, on Revive uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made   from  post-consumer collected waste. The printer and paper supplier are both accredited to ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard and both are FSC certified. The Laird Group PLC    01   
Financial highlights
 Explanatory notes:
(i)  Laird uses underlying results as key performance indicators. Underlying profit before tax and underlying earnings per share 
are stated before exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible 
assets and goodwill, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses and the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial 
instruments. The narrative that follows is based on underlying operating profit, underlying profit before tax and underlying 
earnings per share, as the directors believe that these provide a more consistent measure of operating performance. 
(ii)  Excludes a special dividend of 50p per share paid in June 2007.
†
 2007: four months only.
*  The average number of shares in issue was 185.9 million in 2007 and 189.2 million in 2006 following the 8 for 9 share 
consolidation on 11 June 2007.
The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 contains the Directors’ report on pages 3-51.
 2007	 2006  
	 £m	 £m
Revenue
- Continuing operations 564.3	 370.6  + 52%
- Discontinued operations	 72.9
†
	 237.7
	 	 637.2	 608.3
Underlying profit before tax from  
continuing operations
(i)
 72.4	 45.5  + 59%
Total underlying profit before tax
(i)
 76.8	 73.3  +  5%
Profit before tax from continuing operations 51.5	 39.6 + 30%
Profit for the year 127.7	 50.7 
Net borrowings 85.4	 109.1 
Shareholders’ funds 448.5	 409.2  
	 p/share*	 p/share*
Underlying earnings from 
continuing operations
(i)
 33.1	 20.7  + 60%
Total underlying earnings
(i)
 34.9	 31.7  + 10%
Basic earnings from continuing operations 21.4	 16.3  + 31%
Dividend
(ii)
 11.5	 10.3  + 12% 0    The Laird Group PLC The Laird Group PLC    03   
Strategy
Over recent years Laird has been transformed from  
a diversified industrial group into a focused 
electronics and technology company. We now serve 
specialist high growth markets with a broad set 
of complementary proprietary products, obtaining 
a competitive edge through technology and 
customer service allied to a well established, and 
still expanding, low cost manufacturing base. The 
divestment of Laird Security Systems in April 2007 
was a key part of this strategy.
Continuing	Dividend	Growth
The Board’s dividend policy is to increase returns 
to shareholders progressively over time, reflecting 
both the underlying profitability of the Company 
and the cash requirements of the business. In line 
with this policy, the Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 7.88 pence per share. This represents a 
total dividend for the year of 11.5 pence per share, 
an increase of 12% compared with the 10.3 pence 
per share for 2006. This is in addition to the special 
dividend of 50 pence per share paid in June 2007.
Corporate	and	Social	Responsibility
As a member of the FTSE4Good index, Laird 
recognises the need to behave as a good corporate 
citizen and remains committed to a programme of 
continuous improvement in all areas of corporate 
responsibility. From 2008 Laird will begin adopting 
the Electronics Industry Code of Conduct (EICC), 
a code of best practice adopted by some of the 
world’s major electronics brands and their suppliers 
covering key areas of social responsibility. Further 
details of the Group’s corporate responsibility 
activities are available in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility section of this report.
The	Board
Martin Rapp, an executive director of The Laird Group, 
will be appointed Managing Director with effect from 
31 March 2008.
In order to better reflect our new focus, approval will  
be sought at the Annual General Meeting to change  
the name of The Laird Group Public Limited Company  
to Laird PLC.
Our	Employees
Laird has a skilled and dedicated 14,500 strong 
international workforce. The enterprise and 
enthusiasm of our people is central to the realisation 
of our strategy and our continued success. On behalf 
of the Board I would like to congratulate them on 
their achievements in 2007 and thank them for their 
hard work and loyal support.
Maintaining	the	Momentum
Laird had an outstanding year in 2007. The 
divestment of the Security Systems Division in April 
2007 completed the transformation of Laird into a 
focused electronics and technology company and 
allowed the return of approximately £100 million 
to shareholders in June 2007. Our continuing 
technology based business delivered excellent 
growth in both revenue and operating profits, while 
total underlying profit before tax for Laird was 
again a record. 2007 ended strongly and 2008 has 
begun well, and we are confident of making further 
good progress during the year. The strength of our 
business, together with the capabilities of our people 
give us the ability to deliver value through innovation.
Chairman’s statement
“ Laird had an outstanding 
year in 2007 .”
Nigel	Keen 04    The Laird Group PLC
We design, develop and supply the technology that 
allows people, organisations and electronic devices 
to connect effectively and efficiently, locally and 
globally – key requirements in today’s increasingly 
connected world.
Results
Laird has produced another set of strong results in  
2007. Revenue from our continuing business, Laird  
Technologies, was £564.3 million in 2007, up 52%  
(2006, £370.6 million), driven by continuing market  
growth, increased customer demand for our products,  
market share gains, new product applications and 
the benefits from acquisitions. Organic revenue 
growth, one of our Key Performance Indicators 
(KPIs), was 34%.
Underlying profit before tax from continuing 
operations was £72.4 million in 2007, up 59% (2006, 
£45.5 million), helped by a further expansion of our  
low cost manufacturing base. Profit growth at constant  
exchange rates was 69%. Operating margin for the 
year (one of our KPIs) was 14.2% (2006, 14.9%). The 
small reduction was due to the effects of acquisitions 
and a change in product mix.
Statutory profit before tax from continuing operations 
in 2007, after exceptional items, the amortisation 
of acquired intangibles, the gain or loss on the 
disposal of businesses and the fair valuing of financial 
instruments, was 30% higher at £51.5 million (2006, 
£39.6 million). 
Total underlying profit before tax in 2007, including four 
months’ contribution from Security Systems prior to 
its divestment, was £76.8 million (2006, £73.3 million), 
with the overall growth of 5% still being achieved 
despite the divestment (Security Systems’ underlying 
profit was £23.4 million less in 2007 compared with 
2006) and the adverse effects of currency movements. 
The effect of currency movements has been to reduce 
total underlying profit in the year by £5.1 million; at 
constant exchange rates total underlying profit would 
have been 12% higher than in 2006.
Underlying earnings per share from continuing 
operations increased by 60% to 33.1 pence (2006, 
20.7 pence). Total underlying earnings per share in 
2007 were 34.9 pence (2006, 31.7 pence).
Divestment	of	Security	Systems
The Security Systems Division was divested 
on 27 April 2007, for a total consideration of 
£242.5 million. Underlying operating profit from 
Security Systems, prior to its divestment, was 
£4.4 million (2006, £27.8 million). Shareholder value 
will continue to be increased by the redeployment 
of capital from Security Systems into our successful 
and fast expanding Laird Technologies business. 
Shareholders participated in the crystallisation of 
value realised by the disposal, through a return of 
capital of approximately £100 million in June 2007.
Focusing	on	Laird	Technologies
Laird Technologies is the global leader in the design 
and supply of components that reduce or prevent 
interference both within and between electronic 
devices, and antennae for mobile handsets. We also 
provide a variety of other communications antennae, 
a wide range of thermal management products, and 
complete wireless modules and systems.
Chief Executive’s review
Peter	Hill The Laird Group PLC    05   
“ Laird is a leader in the  
design and supply of 
customised, performance  
critical products and  
systems for wireless  
and other advanced  
electronic applications; 
Technology for a  
connected world.”
We supply components and systems to high 
growth global electronics markets, including cellular 
handsets, telecommunications infrastructure, voice 
and data communications, asset tracking, satellite 
radio and information technology sectors, and also 
supply the automotive, aerospace and defence, 
consumer electronics, medical and industrial markets.
Higher speed, power and performance of 
electronic devices, as well as the increasing trend 
to wireless connectivity, drive an increasing need 
for our products and solutions. Our strategy over 
recent years has been to broaden our technology 
capabilities such that we are now able to offer 
a unique range of products and solutions. This 
also gives us access to new, high growth market 
segments, the ability to combine products and 
exploit technology convergence and to increase 
the content of our offering in individual electronic 
devices. We are developing our radio frequency 
(“RF”) systems capability, allowing us to address an 
increasingly high growth market.
We strive for leadership in our chosen markets, 
working closely with our global and local OEM 
customers in design and development, supporting 
them in their multiple locations based on our own 
global footprint of design, engineering, manufacturing 
and sales infrastructure. We are a leader in the 
design and supply of customised performance 
critical products and systems for wireless and other 
advanced electronics applications; we provide 
technology for an increasingly connected world. 00    007 Annual Report The Laird Group PLC    07   
Mobile Phone Handsets
In 2007, global handset shipments were some 
1,140 million, up some 16% over 2006; during the 
past five years, handset shipments have almost 
tripled, with a 22% average annual growth rate. 
China continues to be an important driver of handset  
sales and now boasts the world’s largest mobile 
subscriber base at over 500 million users. India shows  
even more potential than China. India is likely to 
overtake the USA as the world’s second largest 
mobile phone market in 2008; currently, over 
7 million new subscribers a month sign up, and 
within five years the user base promises to overtake 
China itself. 
Worldwide, almost one third of existing subscribers  
purchase a new mobile phone every year, either  
because their existing one was lost, stolen or broken, is 
out of style, or lacks the latest features. Mobile phones  
have become fashion accessories and personal 
items that for many need to be updated regularly.
New subscribers tend to buy voice-only phones, 
but when buying replacement phones they tend to 
choose more features, including cameras, Bluetooth, 
GPS, MP3 and stereo speakers. This trend is 
observable in China, India and emerging economies. 
Feature-rich mobile phones are more complex and 
require more, and more advanced, components.
Japan leads the way in new mobile phone features  
and these, including “electronic wallets” and mobile  
TV, are often incorporated into mobile phones  
sold elsewhere, helping to further drive the 
replacement market.
Antenna control circuitry production utilising state-of-the-art 
component placement equipment at Laird Technologies’ new 
clean room in Beijing, China.
0
400
800
1,200
1,600
2,000
2006
Developing Source: Gartner, Dec 2007
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
Developed
Asia/Pacific
Unit shipments (millions)
HANDSET SHIPMENTS 
MARKETS:  The Laird Group PLC    09
IT and Datacomm
The IT and Datacomm segment has driven the 
electronics industry for most of its history. It includes 
maturing sub-segments such as desktop PCs, as 
well as higher growth segments such as servers, 
Notebook PCs, internet routers and switches and  
telecommunication infrastructure, together with  
emerging fast growing niches such as Ultra 
Mobile PCs. 
The desktop market is forecast to grow in unit terms 
by some 5% annually over the next several years, 
while the Notebook PC and Ultra Mobile PC should 
deliver stronger unit growth, averaging 17% and over 
50%, respectively. Notebook growth is likely to be 
further driven by new, low-cost portable designs.
Computing has evolved from the operation of 
applications resident on the PC to a networked 
communications portal, communicating with others 
and utilising content stored on the network. The 
number of devices that can fulfil the role of a network 
portal has also grown, including mobile phones, 
automobiles, home appliances, set-top boxes, and 
TVs, as well as PCs. 
The growing importance of networked communications 
and distributed digital content has boosted the 
outlook for networking and storage equipment. The 
server market is expected to show continuing growth 
over the next five years, as is that for internet routers 
and switches, driven by tremendous increases in 
data storage and exchange, as well as Voice over 
Internet Protocols. Video delivery over the network, 
still in its early days, has the opportunity to further 
drive this segment.
Laird Technologies’ products enable high speed digital 
communications essential to broadband internet access, 
streaming video, gaming and other advanced communications 
applications.
500
Unit shipments (millions)
2006
400
300
200
100
Server Source: Gartner Dataquest, Dec 2007
0
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
Notebook
Desktop
PC/NOTEBOOK SHIPMENTS
MARKETS:  The Laird Group PLC    11   
Transportation
Over recent years, the electronics content per vehicle 
has increased remarkably, driven by the incorporation 
of such advanced features as antilock braking, 
anti-collision systems, airbags, advanced audio and 
audiovisual systems, tyre pressure monitoring, and 
parking assist cameras. 
The faster growing portions of this market are 
focused directly on the consumer and include 
systems enabled by electronics including heating 
and cooling, and devices that would be classified 
as consumer electronics if they were not installed 
in an automobile, such as GPS, Bluetooth, DVD 
entertainment and Satellite Digital Radio. These 
consumer focused sub-segments are expected 
to lead the overall growth of the automotive 
electronic market.
Another area of growth is in Intelligent Transportation 
Systems, both within the vehicle itself with features 
such as lane departure warning and adaptive 
cruise control, and where the vehicle itself interacts 
with a transport network or is linked to asset 
tracking systems for insurance, security or fleet 
management purposes.
The recent rise in oil prices has broadened the 
appeal of green alternatives which boost the 
electronics content per vehicle, including clean 
diesels, cylinder deactivation, and hybrid vehicles, 
whose popularity is growing strongly within the 
Japanese and American markets.
The next frontier in automotive electronics is likely to 
be networked communications. While such networks 
are currently implemented on a limited basis, the 
development of broadband and WiFi access is likely 
to reach critical mass over the next five years.
Many leading edge vehicle communication systems including 
satellite radio, tracking, security and in-vehicle safety systems 
feature products designed and produced by Laird Technologies.
9,000
6,000
3,000
12,000
2006
Other Source: Telematics 
Research Group, 
Oct 2007
0
2007
2008
2009
2010
SATELLITE RADIO SHIPMENTS
Americas
Unit shipments (’000s)
MARKETS:  The Laird Group PLC    13   
Consumer Electronics
Over the last ten years the consumer has emerged 
as a key driver of the electronics industry. The market 
includes an array of devices, including Audio (MP3 
players, CD players, digital radios), Video (TVs, 
DVDs, portable video players), Cameras (digital still 
cameras, digital camcorders), and Game Systems. 
Over the next five years the consumer electronics 
market is expected to continue to grow strongly in 
unit terms.
Flat panel displays have been one of the fastest 
growing segments of the electronics industry. Plasma 
screens, with unit shipment growth running at over 
15% annually, have traditionally dominated the 
larger screen market, while liquid crystal displays 
are growing at an even faster rate of over 30% 
annually. The existence of multiple competing display 
technologies (LCD, plasma, micro displays) and 
investments by the LCD panel makers, have made 
prices more competitive, enabling strong growth in 
unit shipments and average panel sizes. 
Another high growth area has been Game Systems, 
with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo all developing and 
bringing to market new products with increasingly 
advanced features.
The continued growth of new consumers in emerging 
markets such as China and India is helping to drive 
the consumer electronics market. In emerging 
economies, electronics consumption per capita 
climbs more quickly than does GDP , with gains in 
purchasing power driving the purchase of consumer 
devices; this is expected to sustain the consumer 
electronics market in future years.
Laird Technologies’ products help remove heat and electronically 
protect flat-panel displays and other consumer electronics devices.
2006
PDP displays Source: iSuppli, Dec 2007
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
LCD displays
250
Unit shipments (millions)
200
150
100
50
0
FLAT SCREEN TV SHIPMENTS
MARKETS:  The Laird Group PLC    15   
Industrial and Instrumentation
The industrial and instrumentation market is one 
of the most fragmented segments of the overall 
electronics industry. The market is diverse, with many 
applications for increasingly advanced electronics 
devices and systems.
A significant and growing industrial electronics end-
market is factory automation equipment, including 
sensing and controls. The continued growth of 
manufacturing capacity and capabilities in countries 
such as China, India, and Vietnam will sustain the 
capital equipment supply chain. 
Networked communications are becoming more 
prevalent in the industrial electronics sector, 
principally in the form of machine-to-machine (“M2M”) 
communications with the transfer of data for control, 
measurement and display purposes. Growing 
applications include electronic point of sale (“EPoS”) 
remote monitoring, radio frequency identification 
(“RFID”), building automation, aerospace electronics, 
and remotely operated infrastructure applications 
including lighting and security. Applications for 
wireless modules also include a growing need within 
the medical and healthcare sectors.
Another growing segment of the industrial electronics 
market is related to alternative energy and energy 
conservation. Photovoltaics, and wind power with 
associated control electronics, have grown at 
average rates exceeding 25% over the past five 
years and this growth is forecast to continue in the 
coming years. 
High brightness Light Emitting Diodes (“LEDs”) are 
also poised to emerge as a major industrial electronics 
application over the next several years. Already widely 
used in automotive and display applications, the use 
of high brightness LEDs in industrial applications is  
expected to grow strongly driven by improving 
economics as well as size and lifestyle considerations.
Laird Technologies’ products are critical to the performance of a 
broad range of applications including medical devices, industrial 
process controllers, energy generation systems and industrial 
diagnostic equipment.
250
200
150
50
100
300
2006
Cellular Source: Various, 2007
0
2007
2008
2009
2010
WIRELESS MODULE M2M SHIPMENTS
Non-cellular
Unit shipments (millions)
2011
MARKETS:  We design, develop and supply 
components and systems that 
provide and enhance connectivity, 
helping people and machines to 
communicate better and faster by 
voice or with data.
This Division comprises our 
cellular and handheld antennae 
products, where we are the global 
market leader, our telematics and 
infrastructure antennae products, 
where we are the market leader in 
North America, and our nascent 
wireless systems activities. The  
Division has integrated the capabilities  
of Centurion Wireless Technologies 
acquired in 2004, RecepTec and 
Antenex (2006), AeroComm and 
Cushcraft (2007) and Ezurio (2008).
The Laird Group PLC    17
Antenna & Wireless  
Systems Division
OPERATING REVIEW 18    The Laird Group PLC
We supply a broad range of markets:-
Mobile Phone Handsets
Cellular and complementary antennae and antennae 
sub-assemblies and modules, and power products, 
for the mobile phone and wireless portable device 
industry.
IT and Datacomm
Wireless broadband infrastructure antennae for 
Wireless Local Area Networks (“WLAN”), Wireless 
Fidelity (“WiFi”), World Interoperability for Microwave 
Access (“WiMax”), Radio Frequency Identification 
(“RFID”) and Wireless Internet Service Providers 
(“WISP”) applications.
Automotive and Transportation
Antennae solutions, including Satellite Digital Audio 
Radio (“SDAR”), Global Positioning System (“GPS”), 
cellular, Bluetooth and analogue and digital terrestrial 
radio for automotive OEMs and other vehicle and 
marine applications, including asset tracking and 
transportation systems management.
Industrial and Instrumentation
External and embedded antennae systems, Radio 
Frequency (“RF”) modules and power products for 
wireless devices, wireless infrastructure and Machine 
to Machine (“M2M”) applications, serving a wide 
variety of end user markets. 
The excellence in what we do, coupled with the 
benefits of our leading market and technology 
positions were reflected in the Division’s strong 
results in 2007, with revenues growing by almost 
50% to £257.5 million and underlying operating profit 
by 54% to £30.0 million.
Organic revenue growth for the Division in the year 
was 33%, driven predominantly by exceptionally 
Antenna	&	Wireless	Systems
Year ended 2007 2006 Growth
31 December	 £m £m
Revenue	 257.5 173.1 49%
Underlying operating profit	 30.0 19.5 54%
Return on sales	 11.7% 11.3% 
AWS 2007 REVENUE BY MARKET SEGMENT
Handsets
IT/Datacomm
Transportation
Industrial and Instrumentation
Other
AWS 2007 REVENUE BY PRODUCT GROUP
Telematics Wireless systems
Mobile Antenna 
systems
Infrastructure 
Antenna systems  The Laird Group PLC    19   
strong growth in our shipments of cellular antennae 
modules and sub-assemblies. These have higher 
average selling prices as a result of both the technical 
complexity of the antennae and their combination 
with cameras, acoustic boxes and stereophonic 
loudspeakers, and other bought in components. 
Growth of modules and sub-assemblies is expected 
to be less in 2008, with organic growth overall 
expected to return to more normal levels.
The Division’s average percentage margin increased 
slightly in the year, with the positive “mix” effect 
of acquisitions and economies of scale more 
than offsetting the greater proportion of bought 
in components in the modules, where we add 
value by offering integrated design, manufacturing 
and testing of the complete module, which has a 
lower percentage return on sales due to the higher 
proportion of bought-in components.
In 2007 we also benefited in handset antennae from 
our positions on both high volume handsets and on 
the lower volume, but higher functionality models 
where our content is greater. We maintained our 
strong position with the world’s leading handset 
company, Nokia, grew our antennae market share 
with Motorola, Sony Ericsson and LG, and started 
selling to the major Taiwanese Original Design 
Manufacturers (“ODMs”). We shipped approximately 
260 million handset antennae units, including 
complementary antennae, up 25% compared 
with 2006.
In telematics, we saw good growth in our shipments 
to our major automotive customers, particularly 
in North America. We continued to increase the 
penetration of our antennae in a flat vehicle market, 
while reducing our presence as planned in the 
low margin consumer retrofit segment.
We also saw growth from our communications 
and infrastructure antennae in North America, and 
our presence in this market was bolstered by our 
acquisition of Cushcraft in February 2007. We are 
adding specialist engineers to our existing sales force 
in Europe and Asia, to allow us to begin selling into 
those markets.
Our wireless systems activity, where we supply fully 
functioning wireless modules and which was initiated 
with the acquisition of AeroComm in January 2007, 
was enhanced further with the acquisition of Ezurio 
in February 2008. Together, these acquisitions give 
us an initial foothold in the fast growing wireless M2M 
sectors such as asset management, healthcare, 
telematics, security and electronic point of sale. We 
see excellent potential in this area and expect to 
develop our presence further.
Overall, our ambition is to be the leader in the 
industrial, consumer and automotive segments of 
antennae and wireless communications technology, 
geographically diversified and with a wide spread of 
customers and end user markets, allowing people, 
organisations and electronic devices to communicate 
better and more effectively.  The Laird Group PLC    1
Electronic Components  
& Systems Division
We design, develop and supply 
throughout the world the high 
precision, performance critical 
components and systems that make 
electronic devices function and 
connect effectively, whether for voice 
or visual communication or for high 
quality data storage and transmission.
This Division designs, manufactures 
and markets our Electromagnetic 
Interference (“EMI”) shielding products,  
where we are the global market leader,  
together with our signal integrity and  
thermal management products; these  
provide vital protection for a wide 
range of electronic devices, allowing 
them to function and connect 
effectively. In early 2007 we entered 
the electromechanical actuation device  
business with the acquisition of 
M2sys in Korea, growing it rapidly 
during the year to become the market  
leader in the design and supply of 
these devices, which improve the 
physical functionality and versatility of 
mobile phone handsets.
OPERATING REVIEW     The Laird Group PLC
We supply a broad range of markets:-
Mobile Phone Handsets
Board level and other EMI shielding, thermal 
management products, electromechanical actuation 
devices, and a range of ancillary electronic contacts 
and components for mobile handsets and other 
portable devices.
IT and Datacomm
Multiple components for network infrastructure 
equipment, including internet routers, switches, 
telecommunication base stations, and infrastructure 
antennae systems, plus a wide range of electronic, 
mechanical and wireless products for the personal 
and notebook computer, server and printer industries.
Automotive and Transportation
System and components for critical electronic 
systems such as collision avoidance, vehicle safety 
systems, adaptive cruise control, power steering and 
communications, as well as for comfort features such 
as climate control systems.
Consumer
EMI, thermal and signal integrity products for 
subsystems within flat screen TVs, game consoles 
and accessories.
Industrial and Instrumentation
EMI and thermal management solutions for motor 
controls, LED lighting, power systems, uninterruptible 
power supplies, medical diagnostic and clinical 
chemistry devices and surgical equipment, together 
with a limited number of military applications.
The benefits of our leading market and technology 
positions, together with our global footprint, were 
also reflected in this Division’s results in 2007, 
with revenues growing by 55% to £306.8 million 
and underlying operating profit by nearly 40% to 
£50.0 million.
Electronic	Components	&	Systems
Year ended 2007 2006 Growth
31 December	 £m £m
Revenue	 306.8 197.5 55%
Underlying operating profit	 50.0 35.9 39%
Return on sales	 16.3% 18.2% 
ECS 2007 REVENUE BY MARKET SEGMENT
Handsets
IT/Datacomm
Transportation
Consumer
Industrial and Instrumentation
Other
ECS 2007 REVENUE BY PRODUCT GROUP
EMI Thermal
Actuation products Signal Integrity The Laird Group PLC    3   
Organic revenue growth for this Division was 35%,  
driven predominantly by exceptionally high year-on-year  
growth in sales of our actuation devices. We do not 
expect the same level of growth in this area in 2008, 
with organic growth overall expected to return to 
more normal levels.
Although the Division’s percentage return on sales 
declined in 2007 this was due to two specific factors. 
One was the “mix” effect of acquisitions, which had 
lower margins than the Division’s average (although 
we would expect these margins to increase over 
time under our ownership). The other was the greater 
than normal growth in sales of our high specification 
actuation devices which have a higher materials 
content (and, therefore, lower average percentage 
margins) than the rest of the Division’s products.
As well as the excellent progress seen in actuation 
products during the year, we also saw continuing 
strong growth for our EMI and thermal interface 
products into the notebook PC market, particularly 
with Dell, HP and Apple. We continued to see 
buoyant sales into the server, networking equipment 
and telecommunications base station markets, 
particularly to Cisco, Huawei, Alcatel, ZTE, Motorola, 
Ericsson and HP , for our EMI shielding, thermal 
interface and signal integrity products.
Our EMI board level shielding sales into the handset 
market, while still delivering double digit organic 
growth, were held back compared with previous 
years by a reduction in demand from one of our 
customers as a result of its own sales decline. 
However, our board level shielding penetration 
increased at Sony Ericsson and we achieved our first 
sales of these products to Samsung.
Our EMI shielding sales into the flat screen TV market,  
predominantly to Panasonic, Samsung, Hitachi and 
Philips, continued to go well, while new products 
are being used in the Microsoft Xbox and the Sony 
Playstation PS3. EMI shielding sales into the medical 
and instrumentation markets, and thermoelectric 
cooler sales into the industrial, automotive, aerospace  
and medical markets have also remained buoyant.
Our largely customised, high precision products and 
systems are critical in maintaining and enhancing 
the integrity and performance of our customers’ 
electronic devices. We expect that the increasing 
challenges for our customers of conducted and 
radiated EMI and of heat generation, as the power, 
speed and performance of devices increases, will  
continue to drive demand for this Division’s products,  
while changing form factors in mobile phone handsets  
should continue to drive increasing demand for our 
actuation products. We aim to be the market leader 
in all of these areas, and increasingly to promote 
and exploit technology and product convergence 
between our two Divisions. 4    The Laird Group PLC
Leading Edge Technologies
Our aim is to make ourselves indispensable to our 
customers through delivering technology based 
solutions, by maintaining our technology leadership.
Technology	Focus
We focus our technology development on the 
following key areas:-
Antennae design, simulation and optimisation 
capability; this is at the heart of our competitive 
advantage in the communications marketplace.
Radiated and conducted EMI suppression 
technology enabling proper system function in 
today’s electrically noisy environments.
Satellite data reception and processing technology, 
enabling satellite radio, GPS and multi-band signal 
reception and processing.
Active wireless systems, firmware and hardware 
development, for radio modules and assemblies.
Thermoelectric device and subsystem technology, 
enabling us to build industry leading thermal 
management modules and assemblies.
Thermally conductive materials technology, 
performance critical components and solutions that 
allow our customers’ devices to function effectively.
Strong	Growth	in	Research	and		
Development	Investment
Our investment in research and development in 
2007 was £25.0 million, up 26% on 2006 and was 
approximately 4.5% of revenues. Over half our spend 
is on new development programmes, including 
redesigns for product extensions, targeted at 
near term customer development platforms and
Laird Technologies’ Corporate Research Laboratory in Bangalore, 
India will focus on fundamental material science that will provide 
breakthrough, new products.
Laird Technologies’ Artificial 
Intelligence Optimiser provides 
the highest performance 
antenna design solution at 
significantly reduced time and 
development cost.
OPERATING REVIEW applications. Nearly one quarter of the spend is in 
product innovation for future platforms which result 
in completely new product families; the remaining 
spend is on advanced technical research, offering 
the greatest future potential. At the end of 2007 we 
employed 660 qualified engineers and technologists, 
one quarter of whom had masters’ degrees 
or doctorates.
Building	our	Intellectual	Property	Portfolio
The ownership of patents, trade secrets and 
trademarks are all forms of intellectual property 
protection that we utilise, helping us to maintain our 
technology leadership positions. In 2007, 121 new 
patents were granted, more than double the number 
granted in 2006, the growth being illustrative of 
our increasing focus on protecting the intellectual 
property we create. By the end of 2007 we possessed 
610 issued patents with a further 506 pending.
Product	Design	Centre	Expansion
We are establishing a network of engineering 
centres to support the product design needs of our 
customers. These centres are strategically located 
around the world close to our customer’s design 
facilities and serve the product design needs of the 
regions in which they are located. These new design 
centres will have the capability to design all Laird 
Technologies’ products under one roof, achieving 
design synergy across our product lines and enabling 
us to integrate the full range of our product offering to 
our customers.
Corporate	Research	Laboratory	Established
In December 2007 we opened our new Corporate 
Research Laboratory in Bangalore, India providing 
an advanced technology research capability as well 
as “horizon scanning” for potential new technology 
opportunities and threats.
Exploiting	Product	Convergence
We are uniquely positioned to exploit our broad 
range of products and technologies to deliver 
multifunctional value to our customers. We do this in 
a number of different ways:-
Technology convergence: Bringing together products 
where the technical design characteristics are 
interdependent.
Physical convergence: Combining two or more 
individual products into a single component.
Modules: Bringing together components from a 
variety of sources, internal and external, to form a 
new multifunctional high value product.
Sub-assemblies: Fitting modules and other 
components together onto a single “deck”.
Bundling: Supplying a range of our individual 
products into a customer’s device.
Delivering	Value	from	Technology
Laird Technologies is delivering shareholder value 
through innovation and technology leadership in the 
products and solutions we offer. We own an industry 
leading patent portfolio, and a global, multidisciplined 
engineering skill base operating from strategically 
located product design centres that are increasingly 
valuable to our customers. We have a unique ability 
to exploit product convergence. All of these factors 
provide us with a technology based competitive 
advantage.
The Laird Group PLC    5    6    The Laird Group PLC
Operational Excellence
We focused heavily on operational excellence in 
2007. We believe this is a key differentiator, from 
supplying our customers “just in time”, to being 
the lowest cost supplier. During 2007 we invested 
in additional manufacturing capacity and in further 
developing our operational capabilities, through 
continuous improvement and more integrated supply 
chain management.
Expanding	our	Footprint
In the first half of 2007 we completed factory moves 
into new, larger premises in Shanghai in China and 
Penang in Malaysia, and in the second half we 
opened our expanded 15,000 square metre facility 
in Reynosa, Mexico. These followed our major new 
plant expansions and relocations in Beijing, Tianjin and 
Shenzhen in China in 2006. We increased our capacity 
utilisation at all of these plants during the year.
2008 will see our 16,000 square metre facility in 
the Nokia Business Park in Chennai, India, fully on 
stream, and we are beginning the planning for our 
“next wave” of new manufacturing capacity, likely to 
be in Western China and Vietnam.
In 2007, 81% of Laird Technologies’ revenues 
by origin were from Asia, Eastern Europe and 
Mexico (2006, 68%). At the end of 2007, Laird 
Technologies had approximately 14,500 employees 
in 15 countries, of which 12,000 are in our regional 
manufacturing centres in Mexico, Eastern Europe 
and Asia, the majority of these in China.
Upgrading	our	Capabilities
We made good progress in 2007 in enhancing 
our manufacturing capabilities and our process 
technologies. Our investment in new production 
capacity and equipment and in improving our 
capabilities continues, underpinning our future growth. 
Capital expenditure in 2007 was £25.6 million, 4.5% of 
sales and 52% higher than in 2006.
Laird Technologies’ new 15,000 sq.m. facility expansion in 
Reynosa, Mexico.
LAIRD	TECHNOLOGIES	
EMPLOYEE	HEADCOUNT	BY	GEOGRAPHIC		
REGION	2007
	Asia 
	North America 
	Mexico  
	Europe 
OPERATING REVIEW Improving	our	Supply	Chain
By the end of 2007 22 sites were live on our new 
global QAD enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) 
system, which provides us with a fully integrated 
materials planning capability. Our global commodity 
management and our strategic sourcing and 
procurement strategies are enabling us to reduce our 
materials costs and improve supplier quality. More 
of our suppliers are now providing us with vendor 
managed inventories, helping contain our working 
capital requirements.
Reducing	our	Cost	Base
We commenced in the year a further restructuring of 
our North American EMI shielding operations, with 
the progressive closure of our facility at Delaware 
Water Gap, Pennsylvania, and a significant reduction 
in manufacturing at St. Louis, Missouri, with the 
transfer of operations to Mexico and China. These 
actions follow the closure of our thermal products 
manufacturing facility in Trenton, New Jersey, 
and the cessation of antennae manufacturing 
and assembly in Lincoln, Nebraska, which have 
now been completed. We have also successfully 
relocated the manufacturing and formulation of the 
ferrite compounds for our signal integrity products 
from the USA to China, as well as the component 
manufacturing. These measures will provide cost 
benefits in 2008 and 2009.
Driving	Continuous	Improvement
We saw good improvements in our manufacturing 
processes, product quality and cost reductions 
through our Six Sigma CIP programme during the 
course of 2007. We now have well established 
systems and supporting infrastructure, and will 
continue to expand and broaden these initiatives 
across all of our businesses. These initiatives are 
allowing us to meet the increasing demands of our 
customers, while remaining cost competitive and 
maintaining our margins.
The Laird Group PLC    7    8    The Laird Group PLC
Revenue	
Revenue from continuing operations increased by 
52% to £564.3 million in 2007 (2006, £370.6 million). 
There was £72.9 million of revenue from discontinued 
operations in 2007 (2006, £237.7 million).
Organic growth from continuing operations is 
measured by restating 2007 revenue at 2006 
exchange rates and comparing it to the reported 
revenue for 2006 but after adjusting 2006 to restate 
it on a pro-forma basis. The pro-forma adjustment is 
the addition of revenue in respect of acquisitions as if 
we had owned the acquisitions in 2006 for the same 
proportion of the year that they were owned in 2007.
On this basis, organic growth was 34%, 33% for 
Antenna and Wireless Systems (AWS) and 35% for 
Electronic Components and Systems (ECS). This is 
summarised in the table below: 
 Antenna  Electronic
 & Wireless Components 
 Systems & Systems Total 
 £m £m £m
2006 revenue 173.1 197.5 370.6
Adjustment for  
 acquisitions in 2006 29.4 38.8 68.2
2006 pro-forma revenue 202.5 236.3 438.8
2007 revenue 257.5 306.8 564.3
Adjustment to restate at  
 constant exchange rates 10.8 12.9 23.7
2007 revenue at 2006  
 exchange rates 268.3 319.7 588.0
Organic growth 33% 35% 34%
The top five customers accounted for 58% of 
revenue in 2007 (2006, 53%) and the top ten 
customers accounted for 65% (2006, 60%). 
Net	Margins
Net margins for the continuing business were 14.2% 
in 2007, lower than in 2006 (14.9%). Margins in 2007 
were higher in AWS compared with 2006 but lower in 
ECS, with particularly strong growth in products with 
higher bought-in material content.
      Adjustment
     for
    Actual acquisitions Pro-forma Actual 
£m   2006 2006 2006 2007
AWS
Revenue 173.1 29.4 202.5 257.5
PBIT   19.5 6.2 25.7 30.0
ROS%  11.3% 21.1% 12.7% 11.7%
ECS 
Revenue 197.5 38.8 236.3 306.8
PBIT   35.9 3.6 39.5 50.0
ROS%  18.2% 9.3% 16.7% 16.3%
Profit	
Profit before tax from continuing operations was 
£51.5 million (2006, £39.6 million). 
The profit after tax for the year from discontinued 
operations of £88.0 million (2006, £19.9 million) 
includes a gain of £89.3 million on the sale of Laird 
Security Systems less a charge of £4.0 million for 
disposals made in prior years. 
Finance Director’s report
Jonathan	Silver The Laird Group PLC    9
    The total surplus on the Security Systems disposal 
was £108.8 million, of which £89.3 million is 
disclosed within the discontinued results and the 
balance of £19.5 million, being the reversal of 
exchange translation movements since 1 January 
2004 on the Division, is disclosed in the Statement 
of Recognised Income and Expense. Operating 
profit from discontinued activities up to disposal 
was £4.4 million on which there is a tax charge of 
£1.1 million. 
Underlying	profit
Total underlying profit before tax in the year was 
£76.8 million (2006, £73.3 million). Underlying profit 
is defined as profit before tax, exceptional items, 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets, the gain 
or loss on sale of businesses and the impact arising 
from the fair valuing of financial instruments, as set 
out in note 14. Underlying profit from continuing 
operations before tax was £72.4 million (2006, 
£45.5 million).
Exceptional	Costs
There were £12.5 million of exceptional costs in 2007 
(2006, £nil). Laird Technologies incurred restructuring 
costs of £10.4 million in the USA and Europe. Early 
repayment of a US$ Private Placement note resulted 
in an exceptional finance charge of £1.5 million. This 
arose due to the divestment of a company which 
issued the notes as part of the divestment of Laird 
Security Systems. The remaining £0.6 million was 
a charge in relation to restructuring Laird Security 
Systems itself. The cash spend on exceptional items 
was £4.6 million.
Finance	costs	
Finance costs, excluding the exceptional finance 
charge of £1.5 million described above and a gain on 
the fair valuing of financial instruments of £1.2 million 
(2006, gain of £0.2 million) were £7.6 million compared  
to the £9.9 million in 2006. Interest cover was 11.1 
times, well above the minimum of 2.5 required by the 
covenant in the Group’s principal loan agreements. 
Taxation	
The underlying tax charge on total underlying profit 
before tax is equivalent to an average tax rate of 
15.5% compared with 18.1% in 2006. Profits in 
the USA are subject to a relatively low charge and 
should remain so for many years in part due to tax 
deductions for amortised goodwill resulting from 
acquisitions. A significant proportion of profits are 
also from jurisdictions with low tax rates or with tax 
incentives. An analysis of the total tax charge is given 
in note 11. Going forward, the average tax rate is 
likely to rise given the increases in tax rates in China 
and this could mean an underlying rate of around 
18% in 2008, and 20-22% in the medium term.
Underlying	Earnings	
Underlying profit before tax was 5% up on 2006 
and total underlying earnings per share of 34.9p 
were up by 10% (note 14). There were less shares 
in issue on average in 2007 following the share 
consolidation in June 2007. Underlying earnings are 
based on underlying profit less underlying tax and 
exclude deferred tax on acquired intangible assets 
and goodwill.
Cash	Flow
Analysis of cash flow 
     £m £m
     Discontinued Continuing
Operating profit   4.4 80.0
Depreciation / asset disposal gain 1.7 10.4
     6.1 90.4
Increase in working capital*  (10.8) (25.6)
Capital expenditure  
 less disposals  (1.9) (25.6)
Operating cash flow  (6.6) 39.2
Total operating cash flow   32.6
Finance costs    (8.2)
Taxation    (7.7)
Trading cash flow surplus   16.7
Dividends    (120.0)
Acquisitions    (81.4)
Disposals    219.9
Exceptional costs    (4.6)
Additional pension contributions    (13.6)
Share issues   3.2
Exchange translation movement    3.5
Reduction in net borrowings    23.7
* after adjusting for creditor increases on exceptional items of £3.9 million. 30    The Laird Group PLC
Finance Director’s report (continued)
Net	borrowings	and	debt	facilities
Overall, there was a £23.7 million reduction in net 
borrowings to £85.4 million. The trading cash flow 
surplus was dwarfed by the £120.0 million paid 
out in dividends which included a special dividend 
of approximately £100 million following the sale 
of Laird Security Systems. Other major cash flow 
items included the expenditure on acquisitions of 
£81.4 million and the proceeds from disposals of 
£219.9 million. 
Taking into account the acquisitions, net borrowings 
were 0.8 times earnings before exceptional items, 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, 23% of 
the maximum permitted of 3.5 times in the principal 
loan covenants. A key consideration for financial 
planning is to maintain sufficient headroom between 
borrowings and the ceiling set by the covenants. In 
circumstances where this ratio is expected to rise 
above 2.5, other than in the short term, the Group 
will either seek to agree with its lenders that the 
ratio can exceed the loan covenant maximum of 
3.5 temporarily or reduce borrowings by raising 
alternative forms of finance.
Due regard is given to maintaining committed loan 
finance which exceeds one year and ensuring that 
committed finance is available that exceeds the 
Group’s expected borrowing requirements. In August 
2007, the Group extended the term of its 5 year 
bilateral revolving credit facilities of £195.0 million 
from August 2011 to August 2012. These facilities, 
together with the US$ private placement facilities, 
the vast majority of which expire between 2008 
and 2016, provide committed facilities totalling 
£276.2 million.
There was a trading cash outflow in the discontinued 
activities prior to their disposal as a result of a 
working capital outflow. 
In the continuing business there was a working 
capital increase of £25.6 million. The principal driver 
of the increase was organic growth. In addition, 
December 2007 itself being a high revenue month 
compared to previous years and compared to our 
expectations and some cash receipts that would 
normally be received prior to the month end were 
received following the month end. 
Capital expenditure of £25.6 million in the continuing 
business was over twice the level of depreciation 
largely due to the continuing expansion in capacity 
to meet demand, with much of the expenditure 
occurring in Asia, and with new plants in Mexico  
and India.  The Laird Group PLC    31
Currency	
The average and period end exchange rates are set 
out in note 5. A significant proportion of revenues 
are in US$ or currencies which are linked to the 
US$. Each US$0.01 movement approximates to an 
annual impact of £375,000 on profit. The year on 
year movement in average exchange rates reduced 
continuing underlying profit by £5.5 million. 
The majority of the Group’s assets are held overseas 
and these are hedged in part by foreign currency 
loans. The translation impact of exchange rate 
movements at the end of 2007 compared with 
the end of 2006 increased shareholders’ funds by 
£4.9 million.
Pensions	
IFRIC 14 has been adopted in 2007 for the first time 
and allows pension surpluses to be taken onto the 
balance sheet dependent on the rules of individual 
schemes. There is an overall defined pension scheme 
surplus of £8.1 million. £13.6 million of the increase 
in asset values was due to additional contributions 
over and above the current service cost of which 
£10.2 million related to the divestment of Laird 
Security Systems. In 2006, there was an overall 
deficit of £10.4 million after excluding surplus assets 
of £0.4 million.
Following the divestment of Laird Security Systems, 
there are now only 15 active members in the defined  
benefit plans. There was a change in the assumptions  
used to calculate liabilities; the bond rate used to 
discount liabilities was 5.7% in 2007 compared 
to 5.1% in 2006, which has reduced liabilities by 
£8.0 million. These changes have been offset in part 
by an increase in the inflation assumption.
Shareholders’	Funds	
Shareholders’ funds at the 2007 year end were  
£448.5 million (2006, £409.2 million). The reconciliation 
is set out in note 31. 
Return	on	Capital	Employed	
Return on capital employed (profit before interest and 
tax over shareholders’ funds plus net borrowings) for 
the continuing business was 16.0% compared  
to 14.8% in 2006. 3    The Laird Group PLC
Nigel	Keen
Chairman. MA, FCA. Appointed a 
non-executive director in 1993 and 
Chairman in 2000. Chairman of the 
Nominations Committee and a member 
of the Remuneration Committee. 
Non-executive director of Bioquell PLC. 
Chairman of Axis-Shield plc, Oxford 
Instruments plc and Deltex Medical 
Group plc. 
Board of Directors
Peter	Hill,	CBE
Chief Executive. BSc, MBA, Chartered 
Engineer. Appointed Managing Director 
in 2001 and Chief Executive in 2002.  
Previously held senior management 
positions with Invensys plc and BTR 
plc. Non-executive director of Meggitt 
plc and a non-executive Board Member 
of United Kingdom Trade & Investment.
Andrew	Robb
Non-executive director. FCMA. 
Appointed in 2004. Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. Previously 
Finance Director of Pilkington plc 
and P&O Steam Navigation Co. 
Non-executive director of Tata Steel 
Limited. Non-executive director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
of Tata Steel UK Limited, Kesa 
Electricals plc and PayPoint plc.
Anthony	Reading,	MBE
Non-executive director. FCA. 
Appointed in 2004. Senior independent 
non-executive director. Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee and a 
member of the Audit and Nominations 
Committees. Previously an executive 
director of Tomkins plc and Chairman 
and Chief Executive of Tomkins Corp. 
USA. Non-executive director of  
Taylor Wimpey Plc, Spectris plc  
and e2v technologies plc. The Laird Group PLC    33
Martin	Rapp
Executive Director. BS, MS, MBA. 
Joined Laird in 1996 as General 
Manager of the Group’s EMI shielding 
business, becoming President of APM, 
Inc in 1997. Appointed Chief Executive 
of Laird Technologies, Inc in 2001. 
Appointed a director in January 2005. 
Previously held management positions 
with Monsanto. Non-executive director 
of Kionix, Inc. US citizen.
Jonathan	Silver
Finance Director. BA, CA. Joined Laird 
in 1986 and appointed to the Board 
as Finance Director in 1994. Previously 
Group Treasurer and Corporate 
Development Manager. Non-executive 
director of INVESCO Income Growth 
Trust plc.
Professor	Michael	Kelly,	FRS	FREng
Non-executive director. BSc, MSc, PhD, 
ScD. Appointed in 2006. A member of 
the Remuneration Committee. Currently 
Prince Philip Professor of Technology 
at the University of Cambridge, and 
part-time Chief Scientific Advisor to 
the Department for Communities 
and Local Government. Formerly 
Cambridge Executive Director for the 
Cambridge-MIT Institute, and previously 
Head of the School of Electronics, 
Computing and Mathematics at the 
University of Surrey.
Dr	William	Spivey
Non-executive director. BS, MS, PhD. 
Appointed in 2002. A member of the 
Remuneration and Audit Committees. 
Formerly President and CEO of 
Luminent, Inc., having previously held 
senior management positions with AT&T 
Corporation and Lucent Technologies. 
Non-executive director of the Raytheon 
Company, Novellus Systems, ADC 
Telecommunications and Cascade 
Microtech Inc. US citizen.
Sir	Christopher	Hum,	KCMG
Non-executive director. MA. Appointed 
in 2006. A member of the Remuneration 
and Nominations Committees. Master of  
Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. 
HM Diplomatic Service, retired. Formerly 
HM Ambassador to the People’s 
Republic of China, having previously 
served as HM Ambassador, Warsaw,  
as Assistant Under Secretary of State 
for North Asia and the Pacific, and 
earlier as Head of the Hong Kong 
Department of the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office. 34    The Laird Group PLC
Directors’ report
for the year ended 31 December 2007
The Laird Group Public Limited Company is a holding company. The principal activities of its subsidiary undertakings (“subsidiaries”) 
during the year were the design, manufacture and supply of products and services to the electronics industry and, for the first four 
months of the year, to the residential building industry. The Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review and Finance Director’s 
report should be read in conjunction with this report. An analysis of revenue, profit, assets and liabilities by segment is shown in 
note 3 on pages 63 and 64.
Business review
A review of the development and performance of the Group during the year, and its position at the year end, is given in the 
Chairman’s statement on page 3, the Chief Executive’s review on pages 4 and 5, the Finance Director’s report on pages 28 to 31, 
the Operating Review on pages 6 to 27, and note 14 to the financial statements. Information on environmental matters is contained 
in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 41 to 44. These pages, and the Key Performance Indicators contained therein, 
are incorporated into this report by reference. Definitions of the KPIs are given on page 112.
Risks and uncertainties
The management and control of risks within the Group is embedded within basic operating procedures. These procedures comprise 
a range of measures including Group Operating Rules, monthly reporting, internal and external audits, the risk management 
framework comprising a strategic level Risk Management Group, and self-assessment and continuous monitoring by Group and 
operating management.
The Group operates globally in varied markets and the principal risks and uncertainties that are or may be faced by the Group are  
set out below. In addition, information on the Laird risk management framework is given on page 40.
Overall growth and demand for products
The overall demand for products is influenced by the level of customers’ commercial activity, which in turn is affected by the 
general economic climate, market conditions and consumer confidence generally. This demand can be volatile and is dependent 
on a number of factors including the macroeconomic climate, the rate of change in the regulatory environment and in industry 
consolidation, the adoption of new technologies and customer spending patterns.
Laird’s markets are highly competitive and the Group must be able to respond to technological change
The Group operates in market sectors which are characterised by a high level of competition between suppliers, and which 
are driven by technological change. The Group must continue to respond promptly and effectively to technological change and 
customers’ and competitors’ innovations in order to be successful.
The markets for some products are characterised by continual technological development and innovation, often involving joint 
collaboration and close working relationships with customers around the world. This requires Laird to put together multi-national, 
multi-functional teams which are essential to the development of new products in high growth markets.
The ability of the Group to meet the demands of the market and to compete effectively is, to a large extent, dependent on the skills, 
experience and performance of its employees and their relationships with customers.
Political, economic and regulatory factors
Having a global reach does involve certain risks for the Group. The Group is exposed to political risk and to the effects of possible 
terrorist action and natural catastrophe. Changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, price or exchange 
controls, composition or changes in taxation or other governmental policies could limit its operations and make the repatriation of 
profits difficult. In addition, the uncertainty of the legal environment in some regions could limit the Group’s ability to enforce its rights.
Dependence on a small number of large customers
The loss of a major contract or customer could adversely affect the Group’s financial condition and prospects. It may also have wider 
profit and cash flow implications if Laird has sited its manufacturing plants in close proximity to theirs.
Reliance on a limited number of suppliers
The Group’s ability to deliver according to market demands depends in large part on obtaining timely and adequate supplies of 
components and raw materials on competitive terms and in line with product quality and safety standards. Failure could interrupt its 
product supply, limit sales and increase costs, as well as affecting the Group’s reputation and brand value.
Operational risks
In common with all manufacturing industries, the Group faces the usual range of operational risks including potential business 
interruption from loss of a major facility or IT system, the consequences of a health and safety / environmental incident and product 
risks arising from failure of operational controls in its own or supplier facilities. 
Risks Relating to Intellectual Property Rights
Our products and solutions include technologies in which we hold the intellectual property rights. Third parties may infringe our 
intellectual property or commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of the intellectual property rights of these technologies, 
either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results. Additionally, recognising that our products incorporate a wide 
variety of technologies, claims could be asserted against the Group that we have infringed the intellectual property owned by others. 
Such claims might require us to incur legal costs, to enter into settlement or licence agreements, or to face legal restrictions on 
selling certain products. 
Environmental Risks
The environmental laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate impose actual and potential obligations on the Group to comply with 
increasingly stringent environmental regulation, changes to which could result in unforeseen cost increases. Additionally, the Group 
could be liable for remediation of contaminated sites, including some sites no longer owned by it. The Group makes provision for the 
expected cost of remediation based on independent professional advice. However, there is a risk that remediation could prove more 
costly than expected or that new contamination could be discovered. The Laird Group PLC    35   
Exposure to increases in the prices of commodities and raw materials
The raw materials used in the business include commodities such as copper and beryllium copper, steel, aluminium and zinc. These 
commodities experience price volatility caused by changes in supply and demand, market fluctuations and governmental attitudes.
Loss of key management or personnel
The Group is highly reliant on the continued services of its senior management, including executive directors, and other key 
personnel, who have skills critical to the continued successful operation of the business. Failure to retain such individuals, or to 
attract and retain strong management and technical staff in the future, could have an adverse affect upon the business and the 
results of its operations.
Financial risks
The Group is subject to various financial and fiscal risks by virtue of its global operations and customer base. Further information on 
Taxation, Currency Exposures and Credit Risk are given in notes 11 and 28 to the financial statements. Information on the Group’s 
defined benefit pension schemes is given in note 36 to the financial statements.
Post balance sheet event
On 11 February 2008, the Group announced the acquisition of Ezurio Limited, a privately owned UK company for a cash 
consideration of £12.5 million on a debt free basis.
Results and dividend
The Group profit for the year after taxation was £127.7 million (2006, £50.7 million). Underlying profit before tax was £76.8 million 
(2006, £73.3 million) and is analysed in note 14 on page 71. The Company paid a special dividend of 50p per ordinary share on 
22 June 2007 following the sale of Laird Security Systems Division. The recommended final dividend is 7.88p per ordinary share to 
be paid on 6 June 2008 to ordinary shareholders registered as members of the Company at the close of business on 2 May 2008, 
making a total dividend for the year of 61.5p per ordinary share.
Share Capital
The Company has only one class of share and the rights attaching to each share are identical. Details of the rights and obligations 
attaching to the shares are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association which are available on its website. The Company may 
refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share. At a general meeting of the Company, every member has 
one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held. Details of the voting procedure are set out in the notice 
of meeting.
In the year to 31 December 2007 the issued share capital was increased by the issue of 1,245,176 ordinary shares following the 
exercise of options under the Company’s 1994 and 2003 executive share options schemes. 8 ordinary shares were issued to 
balance the 8 for 9 share consolidation which was announced in the Circular to Shareholders dated 19 March 2007 and which 
became effective on 11 June 2007. Following this share consolidation, and as at 31 December 2007, the issued share capital of the 
Company was 177,262,248 ordinary shares of 28.125p each. Details of share capital and options outstanding as at 31 December 
2007 are shown in note 29 on page 84.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 May 2008, the shareholders will be requested to renew the directors’ power to allot 
shares in the Company and to renew the disapplication of pre-emption rights. Details are set out in the notice of meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 11 May 2007 a Special Resolution was passed to authorise the Company to make purchases 
of up to 10% of its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange. As at 11 March 2008 no shares have been purchased. 
Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors
Re-election of directors
The directors as shown on pages 32 and 33 were all directors throughout the year to 31 December 2007. The Company’s Articles 
of Association (which require shareholder approval for any amendments), set out the powers of the directors and the regulations for 
their appointment and removal.
In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which requires any non-executive director serving longer than nine 
years on the Board to be subject to annual re-election, Mr N J Keen will offer himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting. 
Mr Keen fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined Code at the time of his appointment and the Board is 
satisfied that Mr Keen remains free from any relationship with the executive management of the Company which could materially 
interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement. The Board believes that Mr Keen makes a valuable contribution to the Group. 
During his Chairmanship, Mr Keen has overseen the restructuring of The Laird Group PLC, in particular the successful disposal of Laird 
Security Systems Division in April 2007 which has resulted in Laird becoming a focused electronics and technology company. He has 
also overseen the strengthening and development of the Board. The Board wishes him to continue as Chairman because of his wide 
experience of business, particularly in the high technology area and his long-standing financial experience. Mr P J Hill, Mr M L Rapp 
and Mr A M Robb will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election. Mr Hill was appointed Chief Executive 
in 2002. Mr Rapp was appointed Chief Executive of Laird Technologies, Inc in 2001 and was appointed as an executive director in 
January 2005. Mr Robb was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in 2004. His comprehensive knowledge of finance 
and extensive international experience are a great asset to the Company. None of the non-executive directors offering themselves for 
re-election has a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Mr Hill has a service contract with the Company and 
Mr Rapp has a service contract with Laird Technologies, Inc., both of which are terminable on twelve months notice.
Directors’ interests
No director had, in the year to 31 December 2007, a material interest in any third party contract of significance with the Company 
or any of its subsidiaries. Directors’ shareholdings at 31 December 2007 are shown overleaf. These interests were unchanged at 
11 March 2008. Details of share options are shown in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 45 to 51. 36    The Laird Group PLC
Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
        Ordinary
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Shares	at
        31.12.07
N J Keen      117,927
P J Hill       149,986
J C Silver      159,999
M L Rapp      46,535
Sir Christopher Hum      1,488
Professor M J Kelly      1,500
A J Reading     	 12,000
A M Robb      15,000
Dr W R Spivey      5,489
Employment policy
The Group is organised on a decentralised basis with managers of subsidiary companies responsible for developing employment 
policies appropriate to the size, organisation and location of their businesses. Various methods are used through the Group as 
appropriate in each location for tracking morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which are reported regularly to local 
management teams.
The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities in terms of recruitment, training and career development for all employees, 
including those with disabilities. Subsidiaries are encouraged to make all employees aware of the financial and economic factors 
affecting the performance of their companies. 
A copy of the Group’s Employment and Human Rights policy statement is available on the Company’s website.
Employee participation
The Board recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its employees and therefore encourages 
two-way communication. Operating subsidiaries encourage consultation at local level and performance and development reviews 
reinforce the link between business goals, an employee’s contribution and his/her remuneration. The Group’s principal operating 
business, Laird Technologies, communicates regularly with its employees, including information on key events within the Group, 
charity and community involvement and employee achievements.
Corporate social responsibility 
In recognition that the Group’s businesses and its activities involve a wide community of stakeholders including investors, employees, 
customers, suppliers and local communities, the Board reviews the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters which 
may affect the Group. A Corporate social responsibility report providing further detail can be found on pages 41 to 44.
Health and safety at work
The Group is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and continuous improvement is sought by the 
setting of objectives and targets based on relevant national and international health and safety standards and monitoring performance 
against these. In addition the Group maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to promote and develop 
good health and safety practices. Further information is shown in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 41 to 44.
Research and development
In recognition of the importance of investing in research and development programmes to foster product innovation and 
manufacturing improvements in the Group, expenditure in 2007 on research and development amounted to £25.1 million (2006, 
£20.9 million), of which £3.9 million has been capitalised (2006, £3.8 million). Laird Technologies continues to develop its technology 
capabilities, with research and development expenditure during the year running at 4.5% of sales (2006, 5.4%).
Basis of preparation of the accounts
As set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities on page 52, the accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis. 
A statement on going concern relating to a business requires judgement at a point in time about future events which by their nature 
are inherently uncertain. The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the accounts.
Financial assets and liabilities
An analysis of Group debt is given in note 22 to the financial statements. An analysis of financial instruments at carrying value and 
fair value is given in note 28 to the financial statements. Financial instruments and related disclosures together with a discussion of 
derivative financial instruments and disclosure about market risk are in accordance with IFRS 7.
Supplier payment policy
The Group requires its subsidiaries to negotiate clear and satisfactory arrangements for the payment of suppliers, as part of the 
overall terms and conditions of the supply, and to make payment accordingly. At the year end the Group had no operating UK 
subsidiaries.
Directors’ Indemnities
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has indemnified the directors in respect of proceedings brought by third parties.
In 2005 two of the Laird Group’s final salary pension schemes were merged and the trustees of the schemes, including Mr Keen 
who is Chairman of the trustees of one of the schemes merged, received an indemnity from the Company against any claim or other 
liability arising out of or in connection with the pension schemes and their agreement to the merger. The Laird Group PLC    37   
Auditors
It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditors.
Shareholders
At 31 December 2007 there were 3,766 shareholders.
Substantial equity interests
With effect from 20 January 2007, section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, which required the notification of interests in shares, was 
replaced by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules (“DTRs”) issued by the Financial Services Authority, whereby notifications relate to 
control over exercising voting rights attached to shares. Categories of notifiable interests include direct interests (holdings of shares 
with voting rights attached), indirect interests (those with access to voting rights) and financial instruments (which give the holder the 
formal entitlement to acquire shares with voting rights attached). Notification must be made of each category, and also the aggregate 
of combined holdings, which exceed or fall below the notifiable threshold. The requirements of the DTRs specify that notifications of 
holdings of over 3% only have to be made when a full percentage point increase or decrease occurs. The Company has only one 
class of shares, and does not hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights under the DTRs is equivalent to the number 
of shares in issue.
As at 10 March 2008 the Company had received the notifications of control of 3% or more over the Company’s total voting rights 
and capital in issue as set out below. 
       Number of  Percentage
       Shares  of voting rights
Standard Life Investments Ltd     33,616,738 18.96%
Aviva Plc and its subsidiaries     14,359,625 8.10%
Fidelity International Limited and its subsidiaries    8,749,585 4.93%
Schroders plc and its subsidiaries     13,701,565 7.73%
Legal & General Group Plc     7,210,886 4.06%
Lloyds TSB Group PLC     5,342,672 3.01%
Charitable donations
In the year to 31 December 2007, the Group gave £35,000 for charitable purposes (2006, £15,000).
Disclosure of information to the Auditors
As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware. Each director has taken such steps as he should have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
By Order of the Board 
D	J	L	HUDSON	
Secretary 
11 March 2008
Registered	office  
100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ 
Registered in England No. 55513 38    The Laird Group PLC
Corporate governance report
for the year to 31 December 2007
The Board considered that during the year ended 31 December 2007 the Company was in compliance with all of the provisions of 
section 1 (Companies) of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board
The responsibilities and objectives of the Board
The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are the owners of the Company. The Board’s principal responsibility is to act in 
the best interests of the shareholders as a whole within the legal framework of the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 
2006. The Board establishes the aims and objectives for the Company, approves the strategic direction and plans and the operating 
budgets proposed by the Chief Executive, and monitors performance against them. The Board is also responsible for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Company, for exercising proper and appropriate corporate governance, for 
establishing and ensuring the effectiveness of the Company’s systems of internal control and reviewing management performance. 
Through the Chief Executive, the Board has regard to the necessary financial and human resources required to meet the Company’s 
objectives.
The composition of the Board
The composition of the Board is outlined on pages 32 and 33. The Board comprises an appropriate mix of executive and non-executive 
directors and is of a size and includes the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business. There is a clear 
written division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which has been agreed by the Board. Mr Reading is 
the senior independent non-executive director. The principal role of the senior independent non-executive director is to be available 
to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive. 
As has been the practice for a number of years, the major shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet with the senior 
non-executive director.
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent. Nigel Keen, the Chairman, was appointed to the 
Board as an independent non-executive director in 1993. Mr Keen fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined 
Code at the time of his appointment and the Board is satisfied that Mr Keen remains free from any relationship with the executive 
management of the Company which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement. The terms and 
conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available from the Company on request and will be on display at the 
Annual General Meeting. At the Annual General Meeting every year at least one third of the directors retire from office. Such rotation 
of directors ensures that directors submit themselves for re-election regularly, and at least every three years.
The operation of the Board
The Board meets at least eight times a year. A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be discussed is normally set out at 
least twelve months in advance. The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to Committees which are described below. The 
Board determines the membership and Chairmanship of the Committees. Minutes of those Committee meetings are circulated to 
Board Members prior to each Board Meeting. All directors receive Board Papers prior to the Meetings which include detailed financial 
information and a comprehensive operational overview from the Chief Executive. The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet 
at least twice a year without the executive directors present and the senior independent director meets at least annually with the 
non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved for Board approval, including for example significant long term obligations 
such as capital investments, acquisitions and divestments above certain levels, the raising of new capital and entering into loan 
agreements. The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive.
Communications with shareholders
Communication with shareholders takes place through the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report. Additional 
information, including copies of press releases, is published on the Company’s website. Presentations covering strategic issues 
as well as financial and operating performance were made to major shareholders through investor roadshows in the UK, USA and 
Continental Europe during the year. The Laird Group, within the limits imposed by the Listing Rules, enters into a dialogue with 
institutional shareholders to develop an understanding of their views and to communicate and explain the Company’s objectives. 
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with shareholders and report to the Board following these meetings. The 
Board is kept up to date with investors’ views through the distribution of analysts’ and brokers’ notes. In addition, the Company’s 
stockbroker periodically contacts shareholders and provides non-attributable feedback which is reported to the Board. Following 
presentations to analysts of the interim and full year results, confidential exit polls are conducted by outside consultants and the 
results are reported to the Board. From time to time more extensive formal surveys on a non-attributable basis are commissioned.
The Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director are available for meetings with shareholders in the event that there 
are any concerns which cannot be addressed through management, or in connection with any significant change to the Company’s 
strategy, remuneration policy or governance arrangements. The Chairman has met with various investors during the year, for 
discussions including issues of strategy, governance and remuneration. The senior independent director and the Chairman attended 
one meeting with an institutional shareholder and the senior independent director, in his capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, has had discussions with three institutional shareholders.
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with both private investors and institutional 
shareholders and encourages them to attend. Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the 
directors informally after the meeting. The Chairman gives a formal report on the Company’s progress at the meeting. A copy of 
his statement is issued to the London Stock Exchange and is published on the Company’s website. All of the directors attended 
the AGM in 2007 and the chairmen of the various Board Committees were available to answer questions relating to their areas of 
responsibility. The number of proxy votes cast for, against or withheld on the resolutions are reported to the meeting and, following 
the meeting, are published on the Company’s website.
Committees of the Board
The written Terms of Reference of the Committees are available on the Company’s website, from the Company on request and will 
be on display at the Annual General Meeting. The Laird Group PLC    39   
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr A M Robb. The other members of the Committee during the year were Mr A J Reading and 
Dr W R Spivey. The Board ensures that at least one member has recent and relevant financial experience, currently Mr Robb; all of 
the members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the 
integrity of the financial statements of the Company which are relied upon by the Board. The Committee reviews The Laird Group 
PLC’s financial statements prior to their publication with particular reference to significant financial reporting issues and judgements. 
The Committee oversees the internal audit function and also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls. It considers 
the scope and planning of internal and external financial audits and the findings of those audits. The Committee reviews the 
Company’s procedure for handling allegations from whistleblowers set out in the Company’s Business Ethics and Conduct Policy, 
which is on the Company’s website, and any whistleblowing events are brought to its attention. The Chairman of the Board, the Chief 
Executive, the Finance Director and the external auditors are given notice of all meetings and may be invited to attend and speak at 
any meeting. The Committee and the external auditors met formally without any executive directors present twice during the year. 
During the year, the Audit Committee met seven times. The Annual Report and Accounts, the AGM Statement, the Interim Report 
and the December Trading Update were reviewed before recommending them to the Board for approval. It also reviewed the 
Unaudited Interim Financial Statements for the Company for the period ended 11 May 2007 which were prepared prior to paying 
the Special Dividend of 50p per share to shareholders on 22 June 2007. The appointment and terms of engagement of the external 
auditor were considered and the independence of the external auditors assessed. The auditors’ policy for the rotation of audit 
partners was also reviewed. The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the audit process, including a report on the audit firm’s 
own internal quality control procedures. During the year a review of the provision of internal audit services was conducted and a new 
global provider appointed. 
The Committee also agrees to the audit fee and recommends for Board approval a policy for non-audit services so as to ensure that 
the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors’ independence or objectivity. This policy prohibits the use 
of the external audit firm for certain specified matters and the hiring of its former employees. There are often sound commercial and 
practical reasons, including confidentiality, for using Ernst & Young LLP to provide non-audit services. For example, during the year, 
Ernst & Young LLP undertook work in connection with the Circular to shareholders dated 19 March 2007 and more generally on 
the disposal of Laird Security Systems Division where to use another firm would have added considerably to the cost and the time 
required to complete the work. They undertook financial due diligence on the acquisitions of AeroComm Inc., Cushcraft Holdings 
Corporation and M2Sys Co. Ltd. and also provided tax planning and compliance advice and regulatory compliance work. Where 
applicable, competitive quotes are obtained. Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in note 6 on page 66. The Committee 
recommends to the shareholders, through the Board, the re-election of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditors at the Annual 
General Meeting and the authority for the fixing of their remuneration. 
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman and at least two non-executive directors. It is chaired by Mr N J Keen and 
comprised Mr A J Reading and Sir Christopher Hum. The Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, regularly reviews 
the structure, size and composition (including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience) required of the Board and makes 
recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes. At least annually the Committee reviews the performance of the Chief 
Executive and reports to the Board. It is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the 
Board having regard to the overall skills balance and composition of the Board. It reviews and advises upon succession planning and 
takes into account the need to refresh the Board ensuring that changes to the Board’s composition can be managed without undue 
disruption. The Committee is assisted by external search consultancies in identifying suitable candidates. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr A J Reading. Currently comprising the Chairman, Mr N J Keen, and all the other 
non-executive directors, it met six times in 2007 and is responsible for recommending to the Board the Company’s general policy on 
remuneration and in particular to determine the remuneration and benefits of the executive directors and the grant of all options and 
award of shares under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Scheme. In accordance with the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration 
Committee, the Chairman of the Board is not the chairman of the Committee. The Remuneration Committee, excluding the 
Chairman, determines the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment. 
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings and, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends the meetings. 
In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive is consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive 
directors and employees. Further details on the Remuneration Committee are to be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on 
page 45. 
Administration Committee
The Administration Committee of the Board consists of any two or more directors and deals with items of a routine and 
administrative nature. 
Performance of the Board
During the last twelve months the Board has conducted a self-evaluation assessment of itself and its committees. Following 
completion of questionnaires by all directors, the Chairman led discussions to consider the Board’s “behaviours” and “processes”. 
Certain areas were identified for improvement or action. The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees also considered their 
own performance and reported to the Board thereon. The performance of individual directors has been considered by the Chairman 
and Chief Executive in discussion with other non-executive directors. The non-executive directors have considered the performance 
of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors. The Chairman and Chief Executive have considered the 
performance of the executive directors. 
Board attendance
The Board had nine meetings during 2007. All of the directors attended all of the Meetings. Whenever a director is unable to attend a 
meeting, the director, if possible, consults with the Chairman prior to the Meeting and is briefed by the Chairman after the Meeting. 40    The Laird Group PLC
Corporate governance report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2007
There were seven Audit Committee meetings, six Remuneration Committee Meetings and one Nominations Committee Meeting 
during the year, at all of which there was full attendance.
Internal control
The Laird Group PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with businesses now primarily located overseas, following the 
sale of Laird Security Systems in April 2007. These activities are organised as subsidiary companies where the management of 
these companies are appointed to manage within the framework established by The Laird Group Board, as well as complying with 
local statutory and regulatory requirements. Overall responsibility for the Group’s systems of internal control and reviewing their 
effectiveness lies with The Laird Group Board. During the year a review was carried out which assessed the adequacy of those 
systems. Primary responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the managers of the subsidiaries. The Group’s executive 
directors are responsible for implementing Group policy and for monitoring the businesses and performance of operating companies 
and units and reporting to the Board thereon. 
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and complies with 
the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is regularly reviewed by the Board. This process has been in place 
for the full financial year and up to the date the accounts were approved by the Board. Acquisitions during that period were subject 
to due diligence prior to their purchase and are required to adopt the Group’s procedures thereafter. The systems of internal control 
are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives as well as safeguarding the Group’s 
assets. These systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Group operating rules are issued each year to the managers of subsidiaries setting out their responsibilities and the procedures to be 
followed to agree their commercial and financial objectives. These rules require approval for specific transactions and call for accurate 
and relevant financial information to be delivered on a timely basis. The ability to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting of 
management information and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
Subsidiaries submit their budgets annually to the Group’s executive directors. As part of this process they are required to identify 
the key risks and opportunities that their businesses face and set out the strategies they will employ to manage the risks and 
exploit the opportunities. The issues raised by the subsidiaries are reviewed by the Board. This process is supplemented by papers 
submitted to the Board by the executive directors throughout the year and by meetings from time to time between the Board and 
the management of the subsidiaries, some of which take place at the premises of the operating companies. The Chief Executive 
presents the Group’s business objectives which are approved by the Board, and the Board also addresses those risks which affect 
The Laird Group as a whole. The Board instigates further reports and investigations as it considers necessary.
During the year, the Laird Risk Management Group (“RMG”), chaired by an executive director and with members drawn from the 
Group’s businesses, examined aspects of operational risk within the Group. The RMG, which met three times during the year, reports 
to the Board. The principal objectives of the RMG were to identify potential risks, physical exposure and business interruption issues 
associated with each operating company’s business and their wider implications for the Group as a whole; to review business 
continuity planning and emergency response procedures; to develop contingency plans and to oversee the implementation of 
remedial actions where appropriate; and to continue to develop and ensure the implementation of best risk management practice 
throughout the Group and review the results of comprehensive self-assessment control reviews by subsidiary management. The 
RMG also oversaw Health, Safety and Environmental issues using external advisers to assist where appropriate. From November 
2007, a revised structure was introduced to progress the development of risk management. Risk identification and review in all 
areas below corporate level and improvements in controls and operational risk management are driven by the Laird Technologies 
Risk Management Committee (“RMC”), chaired by the Laird Technologies Chief Operating Officer. Risk management strategy, risk 
performance monitoring and risk oversight at Group level rests with a revised RMG to which the RMC reports. The revised RMG is 
chaired by the Group Chief Executive and reports to the Board. The RMC and RMG will each meet at least three times a year. The 
Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the Laird Technologies Chief Operating Officer are members of both committees, 
reinforcing consistency and linking between the Laird Group’s risk management strategy and its implementation in all countries. 
Further details on the RMG and RMC are set out in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 41 to 44.
The Audit Committee reviews The Laird Group PLC’s financial statements. It also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial 
controls and considers the scope and planning of internal and external audits. It reviews reports on internal financial control including 
reports by the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the Finance Director and the results from internal financial audits. 
As part of their audit, the external auditors, to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit opinion, review and test the 
systems of internal control and the data contained in the accounts, including an independent and objective review of the approach of 
management to the reporting of the operating results and financial condition.  The Laird Group PLC    41   
Corporate social responsibility
for the year to 31 December 2007    
The Laird Group PLC and its businesses (“the Group”) involves a wide community of stakeholders, including investors, 
employees, customers, suppliers and local communities. During the year the Company’s membership of the FTSE4Good UK 
Index, a financial index series that is designed to identify and facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised 
corporate responsibility standards, was renewed. 
Product Stewardship
Laird designs and supplies innovative, value-added products that advance performance and protection across the electronics 
market, improving the quality of life for people who use them. As a forward-thinking Group, Laird recognises the need to 
behave as a good corporate citizen and pursue environmentally-conscious design and manufacturing practices, via various 
strategies including maximising resource productivity and minimising energy intensity. 
In 2007 Laird Technologies demonstrated its commitment to this philosophy through the development and implementation of 
a Restricted Substance Management Plan at all manufacturing locations to manage processes and procedures associated 
with the 2002/95/EC RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) Directive and other customer-specific restricted substance 
product requirements. As part of the plan the Company invested in in-house RoHS testing laboratories in Shenzhen and 
Kunshan, China, along with screening equipment in Tianjin, China and Cleveland, USA, to enable internally verified RoHS and 
restricted substance product compliance. Laird Technologies’ Beryllium-free Recyclable Clean Copper™ gaskets alleviate 
any environmental, safety and segregation concerns associated with the traditional use and recycling of Beryllium-based 
copper alloys, and its EcoGreen™ fabric-over-foam gaskets offer a halogen-free option with uncompromised EMI shielding 
effectiveness. The Company also implemented lead-free SMT (Surface Mount Technology) operations during the year to meet 
the needs of the EU automotive sector and upgraded its chrome-coating processes.
Laird Technologies continued to be proactive in the field of product stewardship during the year, with the provision of 
halogen-free flame retardant coatings for its MaxAir™ ventilation panels and absorber EMI shielding products.
Business Ethics
The Laird Group PLC believes that high standards of business ethics are critical in today’s business world and therefore 
places high priority on compliance with all legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance of high ethical 
standards, within each of the territories and jurisdictions in which it conducts its business.
The Group commits to conducting itself, and expects all employees to conduct themselves, in an honest, ethical manner 
in all dealings on its behalf and to behave professionally and with integrity and fairness. The Group applies these same 
standards to all business dealings with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Group’s policy is that businesses should compete enthusiastically and fairly in the marketplace and must comply with the 
relevant competition laws of each country in which it operates.
A copy of the Business Ethics and Conduct Policy statement is available on the Company’s website or from the Company on 
request.
Human Rights
The International Labour Organisation, a tripartite UN agency bringing together governments, employers and workers of its 
member states in common action to promote decent working conditions throughout the world, has identified eight Core 
Conventions as being fundamental to the rights of human beings at work. These Core Conventions cover: commitment to 
freedom of association and collective bargaining, equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value, 
the abolition of forced labour, the elimination of discrimination on grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, 
national extraction or social origin, and the abolition of child labour. The Group has expressed its support for the International 
Labour Organisation eight Core Conventions and has stated its commitment to the principles within these conventions.  
A copy of the Group’s Employment and Human Rights policy statement is available on the Company’s website.
Supply Chain management
The Group is committed to ensuring that its supply base complies with the Electronic Industry code of Conduct (EICC), and 
has therefore implemented these requirements into its business systems and continues to audit and work with its suppliers 
to ensure compliance. The EICC, a code of best practice adopted and implemented by some of the world’s major electronics 
brands and their suppliers, sets forth performance, compliance, auditing and reporting guidelines across five areas of social 
responsibility:
•	 Labour
•	 Health and Safety
•	 Environmental
•	 Management Systems
•	 Ethics
Continuous Improvement
The Group saw strong gains in its manufacturing processes, product quality and cost reductions through its Six Sigma CIP 
(Continuous Improvement Process) programme during 2007. The combined Six Sigma and CIP approach has established a 
foundation for best practice across the Group for problem solving and since its inception in 2005 has delivered solid results 
year on year. With a well established system and infrastructure in place, the Group will continue to expand and broaden the 
initiative across all of its facilities to support its strategies and strengthen its capabilities.  42    The Laird Group PLC
Risk Management
Until November 2007, responsibility for oversight of risk management, with particular emphasis on health, safety and environmental 
matters, rested with the Laird Risk Management Group, which was chaired by a Laird Group executive director and met three times 
during the year. From November 2007, a revised structure was introduced to progress the development of risk management in the 
future. Improvements in controls and operational risk management, including health, safety and environment initiatives, are driven 
by the Laird Technologies Risk Management Committee (“RMC”), chaired by the Laird Technologies Chief Operations Officer. Risk 
management strategy, risk performance monitoring and oversight at Group level rests with a revised Laird Risk Management Group 
(“RMG”), to which the RMC reports. The revised RMG is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and reports to the Board. The RMC 
and RMG will each meet at least three times a year.
Environmental Policy and Management
The Group is committed to pursuing high standards of environmental performance including the maintenance of safe and healthy 
working environments.
Detailed policies are developed, implemented and regularly reviewed by Laird Technologies and its businesses to reflect their specific 
trading activities and the associated risks. The Group’s minimum requirements are for its businesses to comply with local legislation 
and to operate continuous improvement programmes, to ensure that efficient use is made of all resources, including energy, water 
and raw materials, that emissions are restricted to within best practice levels, waste is minimised and accidents are prevented 
through comprehensive training. 
2007 saw further progress in overall performance in the areas of health, safety and environmental management, driven by the 
continuation of the Group’s ISO 14001-2004/OHSAS 18001-1999 integrated Health, Safety and Environmental management system 
accreditation programme; a joint standard to which seven additional Laird Technologies facilities achieved accreditation in 2007, 
bringing the total of continuing Group certified manufacturing sites to eleven. A further six main facilities, including certain recent 
acquisitions, are on schedule to achieve Integrated System certification in 2008. This is in addition to the majority of the Group’s main 
manufacturing facilities being ISO 9000 and ISO 9001 certified. 
The Group undertakes a rolling programme of environmental audits covering all of its manufacturing sites. The formalisation 
of environmental management systems via the certified Environmental and Health and Safety standards promotes continuous 
improvement and allows consistent monitoring of energy source reduction, waste treatment and the re-use and reclamation of 
natural resources. 
The continuing Group’s performance in these areas showed improvement in 2007; due to the effect of acquisitions, the addition 
of new manufacturing capacity and the significant expansion of certain existing facilities during the year, an increase in energy 
consumption and the production of greenhouse gas emissions was recorded, however a major reduction in the level of waste to 
landfill was achieved. CO
2 
emissions for the continuing Group increased by 11% to 65,451 (total kilograms per £1m of Group sales) 
with energy consumption also up 11% to 175,328 (total KwH per £1m of Group sales). Waste to landfill was reduced 59% to 1,077 
kilograms (total waste to landfill per £1m of Group sales). 
2007 Environmental achievements
•	 	 Laird Technologies St Louis, USA, maintained its 16-year history of zero environmental non-compliance issues.
•	 	 An in-house waste water treatment facility at Laird Technologies’ Shenzhen, China plant increased waste water recycling by 25% 
vs. 2006; equating to a reduction in water usage of 52,800 gallons/day.
•	 A Laird Technologies facility in Kunshan, China achieved a 5.6% reduction in electricity and water usage vs. 2006 consumption 
and completed full air and noise emission inspections, whilst upgrading its control/abatement equipment.
•	 Laird Technologies’ Liberec, Czech Republic facility reduced its electricity consumption per CZK million sales by 25% and water 
consumption per CZK million sales by 27% vs. 2006. The same facility increased its cardboard and paper recycling by 34% in the 
year.
•	 An ISO 14001 programme of energy reduction reaped benefits at Laird Technologies’ Tianjin, China facility in 2007; electricity 
usage was reduced by 38% vs. the established baseline set when the system was implemented in 2004.
•	 As part of the Group’s Restricted Substance Management Plan Laird Technologies in Shenzhen, China, utilised its in-house RoHS 
testing facility to ensure product compliance and in avoiding the use of a third party laboratory, realised a cost saving of $150,000.
A copy of the Group’s Health, Safety and Environmental Policy statement is available on the Company’s website or from the 
Company on request.
Corporate social responsibility (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2007    
Far Left: The RoHS lab established for 
in-house product compliance testing at 
Laird Technologies Shenzhen, China 
Left: The in-house water treatment facility 
at Laird Technologies Shenzhen, China, 
which increased waste water recycling at 
the plant by 25% in 2007  The Laird Group PLC    43   
Health and Safety
The Group is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and the Group maintains a proactive 
communications strategy amongst all employees to stimulate continuous improvement and promote and develop good 
health, safety and environmental practices. 
During the year comprehensive health, safety and environmental audits were carried out at all recently acquired Group 
businesses and update audits were conducted at all other major Group facilities. The results of the health, safety and 
environmental audits and their follow up are monitored by the RMC. Health, safety and environmental training is provided, 
and reinforced via refresher courses where necessary, to designated employees and focuses on the perceived risk within 
each business. 
2007 Health and Safety achievements
•	 	 Laird Technologies’ facility in St Louis, USA, reduced minor workplace accident rates by 43% in 2007 vs. 2006, and 
reportable accident rates by 67%, on working hours up 17%.
•	 	 Laird Technologies’ Hungary facility reduced total workplace accident rates by 77% from 2.1/100 employees in 2006 to 
0.5/100 employees in 2007, despite a doubling of total hours worked.
•	 	 Laird Technologies Cleveland, USA, reduced minor workplace accident rates by 10% and reportable accidents rates by 
45% in 2007 vs. 2006, despite a 32% year on year increase in total hours worked.
Worldwide employee headcount for the Group’s continuing operations increased from c. 9,000 at the end of 2006, to c. 
14,500 at the end of 2007, resulting in a 54% increase in the total number of hours worked. The Group records near misses, 
minor and reportable accidents, based on a uniform reporting standard, at all facilities along with total hours worked which 
together provides an aggregate annualised minor/reportable accident rate per 100 employees.
In 2007, total reportable accident rates decreased 33% to 0.4/100 employees vs. 0.6/100 employees in 2006. Minor 
accident rates remained virtually the same as 2006 levels at 0.8/100 employees. This is viewed as a positive trend given the 
Group’s high growth rate with respect to workforce and total number of hours worked.
Charitable Donations and Community Affairs
The well-being of the communities in which the Group operates is important to its long term development and success. 
During the year the Group gave £35,000 to national and local charities (2006, £15,000). The Group supported a number 
of large UK charities including The Stroke Association, MacMillan Cancer Relief, CLIC Sargent and Prince’s Trust. Group 
businesses, many of which are long-established in their communities, supported a variety of local initiatives. 
2007 Charitable and Community initiatives
•	 	 Employee participation in an Open Day held to raise funds at a Salvation Army children’s home in Penang, Malaysia, 
and monetary donations to a local government scheme providing support for under-privileged families over the winter in 
Shanghai, China.
•	 	 In Schaumburg, USA, employees donated food and holiday gifts to disadvantaged families as part of a Township 
Community out-reach ‘Adopt a Family’ programme and also took part in a food drive to benefit the Township.
•	 The Laird Group Head Office continued its commitment to the charity Guide Dogs for the Blind through the sponsorship of 
another trainee Guide Dog, Cassie, in 2007. 
16,000
2006
12,000
8,000
4,000
0
2007
TOTAL EMPLOYEE
HEADCOUNT
0.8
2006
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
2007
REPORTABLE ACCIDENTS
PER 100 EMPLOYEES 44    The Laird Group PLC
•	 	 Participation in a raffle to raise funds for supplies and field trips for under-privileged school children in Reynosa, Mexico, along with 
employee donations of funds and gifts to a local orphanage.
•	 Sponsorship of a children’s football team in the UK via donations toward kit and equipment. 
•	 Endowment donation to the Department of Engineering at Missouri University, USA.
•	 	 Donation of funds to non-profit organisation, Harz-Weser-Workshops, in Germany, which aims to integrate adults with mental and 
physical disabilities into working life through the provision of gainful workshop employment and support and rehabilitation services.
•	 	Donation of funds to the Little Bit Foundation in St Louis, USA which supplies coats and outerwear to the homeless and 
low-income attendees at a local out-reach centre and to students at eleven inner-city schools. 
•	 	 In December The Laird Group PLC Head Office sent electronic Seasonal Greeting cards and donated the money that would have 
been spent on traditional cards and their postage to SOS Children’s Villages, an international organisation that looks after children 
around the world who have lost their parents through war, famine, disease or poverty.
Corporate social responsibility (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2007    
Far Left: Mr Chen Choon See, Finance 
Manager of LT Penang (right) presents a 
cheque from Laird Technologies to Major 
Francis Ng, Chairman of the Salvation 
Army Penang Children’s Home 
Left: Mr Beng Ee Ang, General 
Manager and Ms Bee Lin Khoo of Laird 
Technologies Penang serve customers 
from the company food stall at the Open 
Day for the Salvation Army Children’s 
Home in Penang, Malaysia The Laird Group PLC    45   
The Directors’ remuneration report sets out the Company’s policy on the remuneration of executive and non-executive directors 
together with details of directors’ remuneration packages and service contracts.
The Remuneration Committee, which met six times during the year, is responsible for recommending to the Board the Company’s 
general policy on remuneration and in particular determining the remuneration packages of the Chairman and the executive directors, 
and the grant of all options and awards of shares. The Chairman does not attend discussions on his own remuneration.
The members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and the membership of the Committee is reviewed at least annually. The 
Chairman of the Committee is appointed by the Board and cannot be the Chairman of the Board. The Chief Executive is given notice 
of all meetings and, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends the meetings. The Chief Executive may request that he 
attends and speaks at Committee meetings. In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive will be consulted on general policy matters 
and matters concerning the other executive directors and employees. The written Terms of Reference are available on the Company’s 
website and from the Company on request. They will also be on display at the Annual General Meeting. The Remuneration Committee, 
chaired by Mr A J Reading, comprises the Chairman, Mr N J Keen, and Sir Christopher Hum, Professor Michael Kelly, Mr A M Robb 
and Dr W R Spivey, all independent non-executive directors. Mr Keen is a member of the Committee because the Board considers it 
essential that the Chairman be involved in setting remuneration policy. Mr D J L Hudson, the Company Secretary, acts as Secretary 
to the Committee. The Board, as a whole, is responsible for setting the remuneration of the non-executive directors. 
The Remuneration Committee has during the past year retained Watson Wyatt Limited to provide independent external professional 
advice. Watson Wyatt Limited also provide pension actuarial services to The Laird Group and to the Trustees of two of The Laird 
Group pension schemes. The Remuneration Committee has also sought the views of the Chief Executive, Mr P J Hill, during the year. 
Remuneration Policy
The Remuneration Committee has established a policy on the remuneration of executive directors and the Board has established a 
policy for the non-executive directors.
Executive Directors 
The current policy for providing remuneration for the executive directors is to have an incentive driven remuneration package which 
promotes the alignment of interests of executive directors and shareholders. That policy is based upon the following principles:
•  the need to link remuneration to achieving strategic objectives and to sustainable long-term corporate success having due regard 
to environmental, social and governance issues;
•  the reward opportunity offered to executive directors should be sufficiently competitive to recruit and retain management of the 
appropriate calibre and experience; and
•  the need to provide a total compensation package which reflects the international complexity of the Group’s operations.
The executive directors receive base salary, annual performance awards up to a maximum percentage of base salary, pensions 
and other benefits, and long term performance awards. Base salaries, benefits and performance awards of the executive directors 
are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee. Base salaries are determined with reference to an appropriate comparator 
group of companies which is reviewed annually. Benefits comprise the provision of a car or car allowance, life, disability and health 
insurance, participation in the annual performance scheme and membership of a pension scheme. Neither performance incentive 
awards nor benefits in kind are pensionable.
Performance linked incentives are a key component of the total remuneration package. Since 2003, the Remuneration Committee 
has granted options and awards under its executive share option plans and Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”). A summary of these 
arrangements is set out below. The Committee believes that a combination of Share Option Plans and the LTIP for senior executives 
is the most appropriate way of providing the incentive to create substantial improvement in the Company’s performance in a way that 
aligns the interests of executives and shareholders.
A proposal will be put to shareholders to establish a share price improvement plan for the executive directors aimed at rewarding 
exceptional performance over a five year period. Details of the plan are contained in the notice convening the 2008 Annual 
General Meeting.
Service Agreements
Each of the executive directors has a service agreement. Messrs Hill and Silver’s service agreements are dated 8 March 2004. Mr Rapp’s 
service agreement is dated 31 December 2004. In line with the Company’s policy, the executive directors’ service agreements are not 
for a fixed term and provide for twelve months’ written notice of termination from either party. Mr Rapp’s service agreement is with 
Laird Technologies, Inc. and he has a separate letter dated 7 March 2008 from the Company in respect of his appointment as an 
executive director. In 2006, the terms of employment for the executive directors in the UK were amended to change the contractual 
retirement date from age 60 to age 65 to comply with the Employment Equality (Age) Regulations 2006 which came into force in 
the UK on 1 October 2006. The executives may still retire at age 60 with their retirement benefits unchanged from the previous 
arrangements. The Company’s policy on termination is to comply with the contractual terms and conditions set out in the service 
agreement. The Company may, at its election, make a payment in lieu of notice. The payment would be calculated as the total of the 
director’s base salary plus the value of his benefits, in each case by reference to the period of the unexpired notice of termination. 
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but their appointments are subject to review every three years and the 
rotation provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association.
Shareholding Guidelines
Shareholding guidelines, under which executive directors will be expected to retain as shares all of the after-tax profit on the gains 
made on the vesting of Long Term Incentive Plan awards and the exercise of existing or future executive share options, until they 
have acquired a shareholding equal in value to their base salaries, were introduced in 2003. At 31 December 2007, Messrs Hill,  
Silver and Rapp owned shares equivalent to a multiple of 1.46, 2.97 and 0.98 of their base salaries respectively.
Directors’ remuneration report
for the year to 31 December 2007     46    The Laird Group PLC
Non-Executive Directors
The Laird Group’s policy is to establish and maintain a body of non-executive directors with a breadth of international skills and 
experience that is relevant to The Laird Group’s global businesses. In this context, it is the Board’s policy for the non-executive 
directors to be paid a level of fee that reflects market conditions and is sufficient to attract individuals with appropriate knowledge 
and experience.
Executive Directors’ Remuneration
Emoluments of executive directors showing breakdown between base pay, benefits-in-kind, performance related remuneration and 
cash in lieu of pension:
     Performance
     Related Cash in lieu
   Salaries and fees Benefits Remuneration		 of pension*	 Total
 2007	 2006 2007	 2006 2007	 2006 2007	 2006 2007	 2006
 £000	 £000 £000	 £000 £000	 £000 £000	 £000 £000	 £000
 
P J Hill 595	 568 16	 13	 554 464 –	 –	 1,165 1,045
M L Rapp 275	 263 13	 13	 330 316 81	 77	 699 669
J C Silver 313	 299 12	 12	 291 244 125	 90	 741 645
* See below
Mr Hill was a non-executive director of Meggitt plc and an independent board member of UK Trade & Investment during the year.  
He was entitled to retain the fees of £41,000 and £4,800 respectively, which were paid in addition to the above.
Mr Rapp was a non-executive director of Kionix, Inc during the year and he was entitled to retain fees of £14,993 paid in addition  
to the above.
Mr Silver was appointed a non-executive director of INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc on 1 August 2007 and he was entitled to 
retain fees of £7,500 paid in addition to the above.
Executive directors’ salaries were reviewed on 1 July 2007, with those of Messrs Hill, Rapp and Silver being increased by 5%, 15% 
and 5% respectively. The Remuneration Committee took account of the individuals’ and the Company’s performance, as well as an 
analysis prepared by Watson Wyatt of salaries and compensation of both a comparator group and a wider spread of companies. 
The increasing complexity and breadth of Laird’s operations and, in the case of Mr Rapp, the increased scale of Laird Technologies’ 
business and operations were also considered. Mr Rapp’s base, performance and pension related compensation is denominated in 
US dollars and the figures above are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for each year. 
Annual Performance Incentive Awards
The awards in 2007 for the executive directors were determined by the Remuneration Committee. For the UK executive directors, up 
to a maximum of 100% of base salary could be earned for exceptional performance and for Mr Rapp the maximum was 125%. Actual 
awards as a percentage of base salary in respect of 2007 for Messrs Hill, Rapp and Silver were 91%, 115% and 91% respectively.
The potential level of awards made in 2007 took into account the underlying financial performance of both the Laird Group and of its 
principal operating division, Laird Technologies, and the strategic development of the Company. Awards made have been at the high 
end of the range reflecting the significant improvement in underlying profit before tax in 2007 to £76.8 million, with underlying profit 
before tax from continuing operations up 59% compared with 2006.
The Committee also considered a number of criteria designed to assess performance against a number of key strategic objectives. 
These benefits are not disclosed for reasons of commercial sensitivity. Of particular importance were the successful divestiture of 
Laird Security Systems and the significant increase in shareholder value during the year: for 2007, the increase in the Company’s 
total shareholder return made it the best performer in the FTSE Electrical and Electronics Equipment Sector.
For 2008, the annual performance incentive awards will take into account environmental, social and corporate governance issues. 
Pensions
Mr Rapp, who is based in the USA, is a member of an employee managed defined contribution program to which Laird Technologies, 
Inc. makes a 50% match of the member’s contributions up to 6% of gross earnings. The amount paid in by Laird Technologies in 2007 
was £3,373. In addition, Mr Rapp receives a taxable cash payment of 30% of base salary in lieu of any additional pension. 
Messrs Hill and Silver are members of a UK Group contributory defined benefits plan, which is supplemented, where necessary, by 
unfunded arrangements to maintain the same level of benefits as if the earnings cap maintained in the defined benefits plan did not 
apply. The main benefits are: on pension retirement at age sixty, a maximum pension of two thirds final salary (excluding bonuses 
and other benefits) dependent on service; on death in retirement, a dependant’s pension of 60% of the member’s pension; on death 
in service, a lump sum of four times salary and a dependant’s pension of 20% of salary or 60% of the member’s expected pension, 
if higher. 
Following the introduction of the A Day legislation in April 2006, Mr Silver’s pension has ceased to accrue within the defined benefits 
plan. In light of the Company’s previous pension commitment to Mr Silver, he now receives a taxable salary supplement of 40% 
of base salary in lieu of future pension accrual under the pension plan. This is expected to be cost neutral for the Company and 
will reduce future pension risks for the Company. Payments in lieu of pension provision are excluded from the calculation of bonus 
entitlements and share scheme awards. 
Pensions in payment for Messrs Hill and Silver will increase by the lesser of the increase in the retail price index or 8.5% per annum 
compound. Transfer values provided on leaving service do not include any allowances for discretionary benefits.
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2007     The Laird Group PLC    47   
       Increase
  Transfer    Increase in accrued Transfer
  value of   Accrued in deferred pension value of Change
  accrued Directors’  deferred pension during the accrued in transfer
 Age at pension Contributions Service at pension at during year (net pension at value over
 31.12.07 at 31.12.06 in 2007 31.12.07 31.12.07* the year of inflation) 31.12.07 the year**
  £000 £000 (yrs) £000 p.a. £000 £000 £000 £000
 
P J Hill 55 1,657 6 6 124 26 22 2,255 592
J C Silver 50 1,745 Nil 21 135 7 2 2,009 264
* payable at Normal Retirement Date
** after deduction of directors’ contributions
The actuarial assumptions have been determined in a manner consistent with last year’s disclosures. The changes in transfer value 
reflect the normal build-up of pension under the scheme, and changes in market conditions.
Mr Silver ceased to accrue further pension benefits from 6 April 2006, however, his benefits accrued at that date remain linked to any 
growth in his pensionable pay. 
Share Plans
The Company currently operates two share incentive schemes for the executive directors, the Long Term Incentive Plan and 
Share Options, as the Remuneration Committee believes that this is the most appropriate way of providing the incentive to create 
substantial improvement in the Company’s performance in a way that aligns the interests of executives and shareholders.
a) Long Term Incentive Plan
The Long Term Incentive Plan involves the award of shares which only vest after the achievement of demanding performance targets 
measured over three years. Executives are eligible for annual awards of shares. The maximum annual award value under the Plan is 
one times base salary. In setting the level of awards the Remuneration Committee takes into account options granted to executives 
under the 2003 executive share option plans in the same financial year.
The extent to which awards granted under the Plan in 2007 vest will be determined by reference to the Company’s total shareholder 
return relative to FTSE 250 companies (excluding investment trusts) and the following targets will apply:
Total Shareholder Return 
Performance Level
Amount of Award Vesting 
%
Upper Quartile 
Median to Upper Quartile 
Below Median
Full vesting
Pro rata between 30% and full vesting
Nil
These performance conditions will be measured only over a single three year period. There is no provision for retesting. In addition, 
no awards will vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Company’s 
underlying financial performance.
The Long Term Incentive Plan may use either market purchased shares or new issue shares, provided that any new shares issued 
will count against the overall dilution limit. Awards under the plan in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 took the form of nil cost 
options or conditional awards (in order to comply with US tax legislation), to be satisfied by shares from The Laird Group 1990 
Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”) purchased in the market. Further details on the Trust are on page 50. 
Awards made in 2004 lapsed at the end of 2006 as the performance criterion for total shareholder return was not met. The awards made in 
2005 will vest on 18 March 2008. The amount of award vesting as determined by the total shareholder return performance level is 85.7%.
The awards in 2007 were made at one times base salary on 15 May 2007 and were calculated with reference to a share price of 
587.50p the closing mid-market share price on that day. They will, apart from Mr Rapp’s awards, be exercisable between 15 May 
2010 and 15 May 2012, to the extent to which the performance criteria are met. Mr Rapp’s award will vest automatically on 15 May 
2010 once the performance criteria have been met. In accordance with the rules of the plan, outstanding awards may become 
exercisable before their normal vesting date in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee made these awards at one times base salary as it considered that this, together with awards under 
the Share Option Schemes described below, should be at this level to promote the interests of executives and shareholders in the 
continuing delivery of above market growth in shareholder value that the Company has achieved in recent years. 
The amount charged to the income statement during the year in respect of the Long Term Incentive Plan granted to the executive 
directors was £625,000.
The directors’ interests in the Long Term Incentive Plan are as follows:
      Vested/ 
     Awards Exercised Lapsed
    1.1.07 in 2007 in 2007 in 2007 31.12.07
  
P J Hill  439,093 98,000 153,774 – 383,319
M L Rapp  149,902 45,000 – – 194,902
J C Silver  251,711 51,000 101,809 – 200,902 48    The Laird Group PLC
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2007
In May 2007, Messrs Hill and Silver exercised 153,774 and 101,809 nil cost options respectively granted in June 2003. Mr Hill sold 
133,274 shares and retained the balance and Mr Silver sold 96,870 shares and retained the balance. The market price at the time of 
exercise was 599.86p and the notional gains were £922,433.79 and £610,714.82 for Messrs Hill and Silver respectively. Under the 
terms of the Scheme, unlike the Share Options described below which are exercisable up to seven years from the date of vesting, 
the nil cost options under the Long Term Incentive Plan are only exercisable up to two years from the date of vesting and therefore 
these options needed to be exercised by June 2008.
The breakdown of outstanding awards are:
  Number of nil cost
  options/conditional
  awards as at 
  31 December
 Date of Grant 2007 Exercise period
 
P	J	Hill 18.3.05 163,319 18.3.08-18.3.10
 25.4.06 122,000 25.4.09-25.4.11
 15.5.07 98,000 15.5.10-15.5.12
  
  383,319
  
J	C	Silver 18.3.05 85,902 18.3.08-18.3.10
 25.4.06 64,000 25.4.09-25.4.11
 15.5.07 51,000 15.5.10-15.5.12
  
  200,902
  
 
M	L	Rapp 18.3.05 85,902 18.3.08*
 25.4.06 64,000 25.4.09*
 15.5.07 45,000 15.5.10*
  
  194,902
  
* Mr Rapp’s conditional awards vest automatically, in order to comply with US tax legislation.
b) Share Options
The executive directors have outstanding options under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme and the 2003 Executive Share 
Option Plan (No.1). The 1994 scheme was replaced by new share option schemes approved by shareholders at the 2003 Annual 
General Meeting. Since May 2001 the basis for calculation of the maximum grant of options to executive directors and other 
employees is the equivalent of shares with a market value at the time of grant of up to one times salary in any one year and up  
to two times salary in special circumstances, such as the recruitment or promotion to a key management position. 
1994 Share Option Scheme
The 1994 scheme granted options over new shares to be issued at the time of exercise (and also over existing shares). The exercise 
of options under the 1994 scheme is dependent upon the attainment of performance criteria set by the Remuneration Committee. 
The scheme permitted the grant of both approved and unapproved options. Options were granted at the closing middle market price 
on the last dealing day prior to grant and are exercisable after three years but not more than ten years from the date of grant.
The performance criteria set by the Remuneration Committee for grants made in 2002, the last year in which options were granted 
under this Scheme, is that the increase in earnings per share must not be less than the increase in the rate of United Kingdom 
Retail Price Inflation plus an average of 3% per annum over a three year period. In 2006 the Committee reviewed the performance 
conditions and agreed that the earnings per share target had been met and that there had been a significant and sustained 
improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company.
The directors’ interests in options under the 1994 executive share option scheme in respect of new shares to be issued are shown  
in the table below:
      Exercised Lapsed
     1.1.07 in 2007 in 2007 31.12.07
  
P J Hill   236,357 – – 236,357
M L Rapp   – – – –
J C Silver   106,050 33,936 – 72,114
Mr Silver exercised options over 33,936 shares at a price of 402p per share. He sold 28,727 and retained the balance. The market 
price at the time of exercise was 546.696p and the notional gain was £49,104.03. Had they not been exercised, these options would 
have lapsed on 8 September 2007. The Laird Group PLC    49   
The 2003 Executive Share Option Plans
There are two plans which were approved by shareholders in 2003. One plan permits the grant of options approved by Her Majesty’s 
Revenue and Customs to be made to individuals who may be eligible for capital gains tax relief on the exercise of options; otherwise 
both plans are identical in all material respects. The value of shares under options granted to an executive in any financial year are 
limited, to one times base salary, unless there are exceptional circumstances (e.g. a high level recruitment), in which case the limit 
is twice base salary. When granting options, the Remuneration Committee takes into account both the level of awards made to 
executives under the new Long Term Incentive Plan and the prevailing share price.
The performance criteria used since 2003 has been to measure the increase in earnings per share against the rate of UK retail price 
inflation plus a specified percentage per annum over a fixed three year period. The Committee considers that a consistent and real rate 
of growth in earnings per share is an appropriate performance target as it is a good guide to the underlying financial performance of The 
Laird Group. The rules of the 2003 plan permit the waiver of performance criteria in certain limited circumstances, such as a change of 
control, death or retirement. In accordance with the rules of the plan, outstanding options may become exercisable before their normal 
exercise date in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The performance conditions under the plans are based on the Company’s earnings per share growth adjusted to exclude items 
which do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance. 
 
 
Tier of Option Grant
Applicable Performance Target: 
Average Annual growth in earnings 
per share in excess of inflation
Up to 0.5 x salary 
0.5 x salary – 1 x salary  
and above
UK RPI + 3% per annum
UK RPI + 3% to 5% per annum applied 
pro rata to the multiple of salary
The performance conditions are measured over a three year period. To the extent that the performance conditions have not been 
met after three years, the options will lapse.
In order to allow for the grant of options to employees who are not executive directors, there is an overall dilution limit of 10% of the 
ordinary share capital in issue from time to time for allocations in respect of newly issued shares over a ten year period under these 
plans and all other share schemes operated by the Company.
In considering whether share options granted in 2004 should vest in 2007, the Remuneration Committee considered not just whether 
the performance criteria described above had been met, but also the absolute level of growth in underlying earnings per share 
over the three year period. This showed that average annual growth in underlying earnings per share over the three year period 
was approximately 33%, which the Remuneration Committee considered did represent a sustained improvement in the underlying 
financial performance of the Group.
Mr Rapp exercised options over 106,051 shares at a price of 195p per share and 74,236 shares at 271p per share, all of which 
were sold at 599.92p; he then acquired 7,000 shares at a price of $11.92 (601p) per share. The gain on the exercise was £673,591. 
Mr Silver exercised options over 40,000 shares at a price of 195p; all of the shares were sold at 599.92p giving a gain of £161,966.
The aggregate of actual and notional gains made by the directors on the exercise of options during the year was £2,417,810.
The targets shown above applied for options granted in 2007 and the earnings per share growth is measured from a base point 
of 31.7p.
The awards in 2007 were made at one times base salary as the Remuneration Committee considered that this, together with awards 
under the LTIPs as described above, should be at this level to clearly promote the continuing delivery of above market growth in 
shareholder value that the Company has achieved in recent years. 
The amount charged to the income statement in respect of the share option plans granted to the executive directors was £296,000.
The directors’ interests in options under the 2003 executive share option (No. 1) plan in respect of new shares to be issued are 
shown in the table below:
     Granted Exercised Lapsed
  1.1.07 in 2007 in 2007 in 2007 31.12.07
 
P J Hill  318,066 49,000** – – 367,066
  268,223 49,000
† 
– – 317,223
M L Rapp  169,124 23,000** 94,704 - 97,420
  161,064 22,000
† 
85,583 – 97,481
J C Silver  191,182 26,000** 40,000 – 177,182
  158,307 25,000
† 
– – 183,307
**  The performance criterion is growth in the Company’s earnings per share of at least UK RPI plus an average of 3% per annum for the three year 
period ending 31 December 2009.
†
   The performance criterion is that the average annual growth in the Company’s earnings per share is at least UK RPI plus 3% to 5% per annum 
applied pro rata to the multiple of salary at time of grant for the three year period ending 31 December 2009. For grants of options to be made in 
2008 the criterion is that the average growth in the Company’s earnings per share is at least UK RPI +5% to 7.5% per annum applied pro rata to 
the multiple of salary at date of grant for the three year period ending 31 December 2010. 50    The Laird Group PLC
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2007
The breakdown of the outstanding options is shown in the table below:
 Number of shares
 under option as at Exercise
 31 December 2007 price (p) Exercise period
 
P	J	Hill
1994 Executive Scheme 236,357 161 10.12.05-10.12.12
2003 Executive (No. 1) Plan 153,773 195 02.06.06-02.06.13
	 147,198 271 12.03.07-12.03.14
	 163,318 323 18.03.08-18.03.15
 122,000 457.75 25.04.09-25.04.16
  98,000 587.50 15.05.10-15.05.17
 
 920,646
 
M	L	Rapp
2003 Executive (No. 1) Plan 85,901 323 18.03.08-18.03.15
 64,000 457.75 25.04.09-25.04.16
 45,000 587.50 15.05.10-15.05.17
 
 194,901  
 
   
J	C	Silver	  
1994 Executive Scheme 29,694 315 10.09.02-10.09.09
 42,420  293.5 16.11.03-16.11.10
2003 Executive (No. 1) Plan 61,808 195 02.06.06-02.06.13
 97,780 271 12.03.07-12.03.14
 85,901 323 18.03.08-18.03.15
  64,000 457.75 25.04.09-25.04.16
  51,000 587.50 15.05.10-15.05.17
 
 432,603 
 
There have been no changes in these interests since the year end. The middle market share price at 31 December 2007 (the 
last business day of the year) was 580p. During the year the share price was in the range 417.48p (adjusted for the 8 for 9 share 
consolidation which occurred on 11 June 2007) to 635p.
The Laird Group 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”)
The Trust purchases and holds shares in The Laird Group to meet the requirements of share option awards and grants under the 
Long Term Incentive Plan. The Trust, which is financed by a loan of £1.9m from the Company, currently holds 610,087 ordinary 
shares of which 579,048 shares relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan. The balance of the shares is unallocated. Currently there are 
no outstanding share options to be satisfied by the Trust. Whilst shares are held within the Trust, the voting rights in respect of those 
shares are exercisable by the trustee, in accordance with its fiduciary duties.
Independent Non-executive Directors
Chairman
Under an arrangement between the Company and Imperialise Limited, Mr Keen is retained to act as Chairman of the Company. 
Mr Keen’s fees for his services, for which he must account to Imperialise Limited, are £175,000 per annum. Imperialise is responsible 
for Mr Keen’s National Insurance and is paid a sum equivalent to the National Insurance on those fees of £22,400, for which it 
accounts to Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (“HMRC”) whereas National Insurance in respect of the non-executive directors 
is paid directly to HMRC. NI payments are not included in the table overleaf. Mr Keen’s initial period of appointment as Chairman 
was for three years commencing 5 June 2000. His term of appointment, was extended by the Board for a further three years 
commencing 5 June 2003 and for a further three years commencing 5 June 2006. The appointment, which is subject to rotation, 
may be terminated by either party giving not less than six months notice.
Non-executive Directors
The non-executive directors’ annual fee is £36,000 per annum. A J Reading and A M Robb’s emoluments include fees at the rate of 
£7,000 per annum to reflect their chairmanship of Board Committees. Dr Spivey who is based in North America, received additional 
remuneration of £15,000 during the year to take account of additional time spent on the Company’s business. Sir Christopher Hum’s 
services as a non-executive director are supplied by Qilin Consulting Limited. The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not 
receive any other benefits. The Laird Group PLC    51   
Emoluments of the Chairman and non-executive directors:
 2007	 2006
	 £000 £000
N J Keen, Chairman 175	 175
Professor M J Kelly 36	 17
Sir Christopher Hum 36	 3
A J Reading 43	 38
A M Robb 43	 38
Dr W R Spivey 51	 46
Performance Graph
The graph below shows for the five years ended 31 December 2007, the total shareholder return on a holding of the Company’s 
ordinary shares compared with hypothetical holdings of shares made up of shares of the same kind and number as those by 
reference to which the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) is calculated, and also the Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector 
of the FTSE. The FTSE 250 and the Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector have been shown because Laird is in both. Total 
shareholder return has been calculated by reference to the relevant share price for each constituent company assuming dividends 
are reinvested.
Total	shareholder	return	for	the	five	years	ended	31	December	2007
0
100
200
300
500
400
Dec – 02
Jun– 03
Dec – 03
Jun– 04
Dec – 04
Jun– 05
Dec – 05
Jun– 06
Dec – 06
Jun– 07
Dec – 07
The Laird Group PLC FTSE Mid 250 rebased (exc. Investment Trusts) FTSE Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector
p
£100 invested in the Company as at 31 December 2002 would have resulted in a gain of £361 (assuming all dividends are 
reinvested) against £186 if the same sum was invested in the FTSE250 and £40 if the same sum was invested in the Electronic and 
Electrical Equipment sector.
In accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations, the ten tables setting out directors’ remuneration, pensions, 
LTIP awards and share options contained within the report have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP; the statements of policy and 
the total shareholder return graph have not been audited.
This report was adopted by the Remuneration Committee at a meeting on 6 March 2008 and has been approved subsequently by 
The Laird Group Board for submission to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 May 2008.
By Order of the Board
A	J	Reading
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
11 March 2008 52    The Laird Group PLC
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
in relation to the Group financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the 
Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the 
directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•	 	 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; and
•	 	 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
•	 	 state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The Laird Group PLC    53   
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of The Laird Group PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of The Laird Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise  
the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Recognised Income  
and Expense and the related notes 1 to 36. These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies  
set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of The Laird Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 
2007 and on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable 
United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial 
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also 
report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements. The 
information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific information that is cross referred from the operating review section  
of the Directors’ report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit,  
or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are 
not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial 
statements. The other information comprises only the Directors’ report, the unaudited part of the Directors’ remuneration report, the  
Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s review, the Finance Director’s report, the Corporate social responsibility report and the 
Corporate governance report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements  
or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial 
statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of 
the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order 
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy  
of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•  the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the 
state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended; 
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
London
11 March 2008
Notes:
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the The Laird Group PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve 
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they 
were initially presented on the web site.
2.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 54    The Laird Group PLC
note      2007 2006
       £m £m
  Continuing operations   
 4 Revenue     564.3 370.6
    
  Operating profit before amortisation of acquired 
  intangible assets and exceptional items    80.0 55.4
 17 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets    (10.2) (6.1)
 7 Exceptional items     (10.4) –
   6 Operating profit       59.4 49.3
 10 Finance revenue     2.8 2.1
 10 Finance costs     (11.2) (12.5)
 10 Financial instruments – fair value adjustment    1.2 0.2
 36 Other net finance revenue – pension     0.8 0.5
 7 Exceptional finance costs     (1.5) –
 
  Profit before  tax from continuing operations     51.5 39.6
 11 Taxation     (11.8) (8.8)
 
  Profit for the year from continuing operations    39.7 30.8
  Discontinued operations 
 12 Profit for the year from discontinued operations    88.0 19.9
  Profit for the year      127.7 50.7
    Earnings per share  
 13 Basic from continuing operations     21.4p 16.3p
 13 Diluted from continuing operations     21.2p 16.2p
 13 Basic on profit for the year     68.7p 26.8p
 13 Diluted on profit for the year     68.0p 26.6p
 14   Underlying profit before tax*  
  Continuing     72.4 45.5
  Total     76.8 73.3
  
  Underlying basic earnings per share*  
  Continuing      33.1p 20.7p
  Total     34.9p 31.7p
 15  Dividends declared / proposed   
  Dividends     120.1 20.5
  Dividend per share      61.5p 10.30p
   *before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, exceptional items, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or 
loss on disposal of businesses, and the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments
Group income statement
for the year to 31 December 2007  The Laird Group PLC    55   
note      2007 2006
        (restated)
       £m £m
  Profit for the year      127.7 50.7
    
 36 Actuarial gains on retirement benefit obligations    3.0 4.7
 11 Deferred tax on actuarial gains / losses    (1.7) –
   Exchange differences on retranslation of overseas net investments   3.2 (48.4)
  Exchange losses transferred to discontinued in income statement   19.5 –
  Exchange differences on net investment hedges    1.7 17.8
  Financial instruments – losses on cash flow hedges taken to equity   – (0.3)
 11 Tax on exchange differences      0.7 (1.1)
  Total income and expense recognised directly in equity    26.4 (27.3)
  Total income and expense recognised for the year   154.1 23.4
 36 Effect of adoption of IFRIC 14       0.5
Statement of recognised income and expense
for the year to 31 December 2007 56    The Laird Group PLC
Group balance sheet
as at 31 December 2007
note      2007 2006
        (restated)
       £m £m
  Assets   
  Non-current assets   
 16 Property, plant and equipment     76.1 86.6
 17 Intangible assets     451.0 429.7
 25 Deferred tax assets     1.4 0.1
 36 Retirement benefit assets     12.3 0.5
  Other non-current assets     0.7 3.5
       541.5 520.4
  Current assets   
 19 Inventories     55.4 69.6
 20 Trade and other receivables     159.9 123.5
  Income tax receivable     2.0 0.7
 21 Cash      32.8 44.0
       250.1 237.8
  Liabilities  
  Current liabilities  
 22 Borrowings     (9.4) (4.9)
 28 Derivative financial instruments     – (0.3)
 24 Trade and other payables     (132.8) (106.8)
  Current tax liabilities     (9.1) (3.9)
 27 Provisions     (7.1) (0.9)
       (158.4) (116.8)
  Net current assets     91.7 121.0
  Non-current liabilities  
 22 Borrowings      (108.8) (148.2)
 28 Derivative financial instruments     – (1.2)
  Income tax payable     (22.0) (22.7)
 25 Deferred tax liabilities     (43.9) (33.7)
 36 Retirement benefit obligations     (4.2) (10.9)
 26 Other non-current liabilities     (2.1) (5.9)
 27 Provisions     (3.7) (9.6)
       (184.7) (232.2)
  Net assets     448.5 409.2
  Capital and reserves  
 29 Equity share capital     49.8 49.5
 31 Share premium     268.9 266.0
 31 Retained earnings     128.4 155.4
 31 Translation reserve     3.3 (59.0)
 31 Treasury shares     (1.9) (2.7)
  Total shareholders’ equity     448.5 409.2  The Laird Group PLC    57   
Group cash flow statement
for the year to 31 December 2007
note      2007 2006
       £m £m
 32 Cash flows from operating activities   
  Cash generated from operations     42.4 80.8
  Tax paid     (7.7) (3.4)
  Net cash flows from operating activities    34.7 77.4
  Cash flow from investing activities   
  Interest received     2.9 2.1
  Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired)    (81.4) (102.0)
  Purchase of property, plant and equipment    (27.9) (22.9)
  Inflow / (outflow) from sale of businesses    219.9 (8.5)
  Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment    0.5 3.4
  Net cash flows from investing activities    114.0 (127.9)
  Cash flows from financing activities   
  Interest paid     (12.5) (11.8)
  Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital    3.2 118.5
  Movement in treasury shares     – (0.7)
  Decrease in borrowings     (32.3) (11.4)
  Dividends paid to shareholders     (120.0) (19.4)
  Net cash flows from financing activities    (161.6) 75.2
  Effects of movements in foreign exchange rates    1.3 (2.4)
  (Decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents for the year   (11.6) 22.3
   
 32 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January    44.0 21.7
 32 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December     32.4 44.0
    58    The Laird Group PLC
note
	 1	 Authorisation	of	financial	statements	and	statement	of	compliance	with	IFRS
The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors 
on 11 March 2008 and the balance sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by P J Hill and J C Silver. The Laird Group PLC 
is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the 
London Stock Exchange.
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted for use in the European Union (IFRS) and the principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in 
note 2.
	 2	 Accounting	policies
	 	 Basis	of	preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, 
that have been measured at fair value. The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values 
are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand unless otherwise indicated. The preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the directors to make judgements and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements 
and the reported income and expense during the reporting periods. Although these judgements and assumptions are based on 
the directors’ best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of goodwill and the measurement 
of defined benefit pension obligations and defined benefit assets. The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill 
on a business combination involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate. The Group 
determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash 
generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated. This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing 
a suitable discount rate (see note 17). Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future 
changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable 
discount rate (see note 36). 
The accounting policies set out below have been used to prepare the financial information.
	 	 Basis	of	consolidation
The consolidated Group comprises The Laird Group PLC (‘the Group’) and all of its subsidiaries. The financial statements of 
the subsidiaries are prepared as of the same reporting date as the parent, using consistent accounting policies. Intra-group 
balances and transactions are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date on 
which the Group ceases to control them.
All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of a business combination is measured 
as the aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of any assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity 
instruments issued by the Group, plus any costs directly attributable to the combination. The identifiable assets and liabilities 
of the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the business combination 
over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, including those of an intangible and tangible nature 
and liabilities and is recognised as goodwill.
	 	 Currency	translation
The financial statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries are prepared using its functional currency. The functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates. The presentation currency of the 
Group is sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary 
assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
In the Group accounts the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted 
average rates of exchange for the period. Net investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rates of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising from retranslating opening net investments and the 
retained profits for the period of overseas subsidiaries, less exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide 
a hedge against overseas investments, are shown as movements in equity. All other exchange differences are dealt with in 
the Income Statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. On 
disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders’ equity that relate to the disposed 
operation are transferred to the Income Statement.
	 	 Revenue	recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received and excludes intra-group sales and value-added taxes and 
represents net invoice value.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party, the 
amount of revenue can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction 
will flow to the Group.
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007 The Laird Group PLC    59   
note
	 2	 Accounting	policies	(continued)
Retirement	benefit	obligations
Under IAS 19 the assets and liabilities of defined benefit pension plans are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet and 
the operating and financing costs of defined benefit pension plans are recognised in the Income Statement as operating 
costs and interest costs respectively. Variations from expected costs, arising from the experience of the plans or changes in 
actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense (SORIE).
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit 
credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the 
current and prior periods (to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. The 
assets of defined benefit plans are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet and the liabilities are recognised at present 
value using a high quality corporate bond rate. 
The Group has adopted IFRIC 14 during the year, which allows the Group to recognise a surplus in schemes where a right to 
a refund exists. This is a change in accounting policy. Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect this.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they 
become payable.
Share	based	payments
The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and Restricted Share Plan (RSP) shares awarded is estimated at the date 
of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP 
and RSP shares were awarded including market based performance conditions. The fair value of share options granted is 
estimated at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions 
upon which share options were granted. Non-market company performance conditions are not taken into account when 
estimating the fair value. 
No expense is recognised for grants that do not vest and charges previously made are reversed except that an expense is 
recognised for grants where vesting is conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as vesting irrespective of 
whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided all the other performance conditions are satisfied. 
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as 
vesting as described above. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the 
Income Statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not 
been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share 
based payment, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of 
cancellation or settlement, and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately. 
Intangible	assets
Acquired intangible assets, including patents, trade secrets, brand names and customer relationships, are recognised 
separately from goodwill and capitalised at fair value and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives. Amortisation 
is charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis. The estimated useful life of an intangible asset ranges between 
3 and 20 years depending on its nature.
Research	and	development
Research and development expenditure is expensed as it is incurred, except for certain development costs, which are 
capitalised as intangible assets when it is probable that the development project will be commercially viable, and certain 
criteria, including commercial and technological feasibility have been met. Intangible assets arising in this manner are 
amortised over their useful economic lives, from the product launch date, which is typically less than three years. Intangible 
assets relating to products in the development phase, both internally generated and externally acquired, are subject to an 
impairment review at each balance sheet date, or earlier should indication of impairment arise. Any impairment losses are 
written off immediately to income.
Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired. Goodwill arises where the fair value of 
the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications 
that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to 
being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill set off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated 
and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 60    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 2	 Accounting	policies	(continued)
Income	taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation 
authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
•  where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that 
is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction effects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
•  in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
•  deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise 
income tax is recognised in the Income Statement.
Dividends
Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a 
legal liability of the Company.
Interest
Interest is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method.
Property,	plant	and	equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost 
comprises the purchase price and directly attributable costs, for example, initial delivery and handling costs and installation 
and assembly costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. For all other property, plant, and equipment depreciation is 
calculated on a straight line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings   50 years or less
Leasehold buildings   50 years or the lease term if less
Computer equipment    5 years or less
Motor vehicles    4 years
Other plant and machinery   13 years or less
A proportion of one year’s depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
Impairment	of	assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such 
indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s 
recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs 
to sell and its value in use. This is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that 
are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are 
largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to 
which the asset belongs is determined. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset 
is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the Income 
Statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Leases
Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated 
as a finance lease. All other leases are treated as operating leases, and are expensed to the Income Statement as incurred.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at fair value. Each asset is 
depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the asset. The obligations relating to finance leases, net 
of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate under current, or non-current, trade and other 
payables. The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a 
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period. The Laird Group PLC    61   
note
	 2	 Accounting	policies	(continued)
Segment	reporting
The Group’s primary reporting format is business segments and its secondary format is geographical segments. A business 
segment is a component of the Group that is engaged in providing a group of related products and is subject to risks and 
returns that are different from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is a component of the Group 
that operates within a particular economic environment and is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of 
components operating in other economic environments.
Exceptional	items
These items are presented within the relevant Income Statement category. The separate reporting of exceptional items helps 
provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. Events which may give rise to the classification 
of items as exceptional include the restructuring of businesses, the integration of new businesses, gains or losses on the 
disposal of businesses, and asset impairments.
Financial	assets	
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Trade receivables are recognised when the Group 
becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable 
amount. Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made when there 
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of 
recovery is assessed as being remote. The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group  
of financial assets is impaired. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised 
or impaired. 
Trade and other receivables are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the 
asset and are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment. A provision for impairment is made when there 
is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will 
not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is 
reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable. 
Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Derivative financial assets are classified as held for trading, unless they are designated as hedging instruments. These assets 
are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses in value being recognised in the Income Statement.
A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised 
where:
• the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or
•  the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Financial	liabilities
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less, in the case of a liability not at fair value through profit and loss, 
directly attributable transaction costs. Measurement after initial recognition is at amortised cost, with the changes in the 
carrying amount being taken through the Income Statement.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in 
finance income and finance expense.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Derivative	financial	instruments	and	hedging
The Group may use derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to 
hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. From 1 January 2005, such derivative 
financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at fair value. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the Income Statement. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is 
positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with 
similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar 
instruments.
For those contracts designated as hedges the hedging relationship is documented at its inception. This documentation 
identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness 
will be measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to be 
effective and periodically throughout their duration to assess continuing effectiveness. 62    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 2	 Accounting	policies	(continued)
Cash flow hedges
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while 
the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when 
the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs. Where the hedged item is the 
cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial 
asset or liability.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or 
loss. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation 
as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are 
transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above. If the related 
transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to profit or loss.
Net investment hedges
These are used to hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign operations. 
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in 
shareholders’ equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the Income Statement. 
Interest rate swaps
The interest rate swap contract has not been designated as a hedge and gains or losses arising on this contract are taken to 
the Income Statement.
During the year the Group has adopted IFRS 7, which gives further disclosure surrounding the Group’s financial instruments. 
The new disclosures are included throughout the financial statements. While there has been no effect on the financial position 
or results, comparative information has been revised where necessary.
Treasury	shares
The Laird Group PLC shares held in the Laird Group 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“ESOP”) are classified in shareholders’ 
equity as ‘treasury shares’ and are recognised at cost. Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised 
in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to revenue reserves. No gain 
or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Cash	and	cash	equivalents
Cash in the balance sheet comprises cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity in three 
months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as 
defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. For finished goods and work in progress, cost includes 
directly attributable costs and certain overhead expenses (principally administration costs) are excluded. Net realisable value 
is determined as estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling, 
and distribution.
Provisions
These comprise liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions for 
restructuring are recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring 
has either commenced or has been publicly announced on or before the balance sheet date. Provisions are discounted 
where the time value of money is material.
New	Standards	and	Interpretations	not	applied
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these 
financial statements:
	 International	Accounting	Standards	(IAS/IFRS)	 Effective	date
IFRS 2 Amendment to IFRS 2 – Vesting Conditions and Cancellations 1 January 2009
IFRS 3 Business Combinations (revised January 2008) 1 July 2009
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009
IAS 1  Presentation of Financial Statements (revised January 2008) 1 January 2009
IAS 23  Borrowing Costs (revised March 2007) 1 January 2009
IAS 27  Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (revised January 2008) 1 July 2009
IAS 32  Amendment to IAS 32 – Puttable Financial Instruments 1 January 2009
	 The Laird Group PLC    63   
note
	 2	 Accounting	policies	(continued)
International	Financial	Reporting	Interpretations	Committee	(IFRIC)
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements  1 January 2008
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 1 July 2008
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the 
Group’s financial statements in the period of initial application.
	 3	 Segmental	analysis
Following the disposal of Laird Security Systems during the year and the implementation of a new organisation structure, 
the Group has changed its primary reporting format to the two segments Antenna and Wireless Systems, and Electronic 
Components and Systems. The segments Antenna and Wireless Systems and Electronic Components and Systems were 
aggregated as Laird Technologies in the 2006 Report and Accounts. Comparative information for 2006 has been restated to 
reflect these segments.
Primary	reporting	format	–	business	segments
 Antenna &  Electronic Components  Laird Security
 Wireless Systems & Systems Systems Total
 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing	operations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
Total revenue 257.5 173.1 311.2 199.0 – – 568.7	 372.1
Elimination of sales to other segments – – (4.4) (1.5) – – (4.4)	 (1.5)
Revenue from customers 257.5 173.1 306.8 197.5 – – 564.3	 370.6
Segment profit before: 30.0 19.5 50.0 35.9 – –	 80.0 55.4
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets	 (6.7) (4.6)  (3.5) (1.5) – – (10.2) (6.1)
Exceptional items (1.7) –  		(8.7) –  – – (10.4) –
Operating profit 21.6 14.9 37.8 34.4 – – 59.4 49.3
Finance revenue       2.8 2.1
Finance costs       (11.2) (12.5)
Fair value adjustment on interest rate swap       1.2 0.2
Other finance revenue – pension       0.8 0.5
Exceptional finance costs       (1.5) –
Profit before tax       51.5 39.6
Taxation       (11.8) (8.8)
Profit for the year from continuing operations       39.7 30.8
Discontinued	operations
Revenue – – – – 72.9 237.7 72.9 237.7
Segment profit before: – –	 – – 4.4 27.8 4.4 27.8
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – – – – (0.3) (1.0) (0.3) (1.0)
Exceptional items – – – – (0.6) – (0.6) –
Operating profit – – – – 3.5 26.8	 3.5 26.8
Taxation – – – – (1.1) (7.4) (1.1) (7.4)
Profit after tax from discontinued  
  operations – – – – 2.4 19.4 2.4 19.4
Profit before tax on current year disposal – – – – 89.3 – 89.3  –
Loss before tax on prior year disposal*       (4.0) (2.1)
Taxation*       0.3 2.6
Profit from discontinued operations       88.0 19.9
Profit for the year       127.7 50.7
* These relate to other business segments disposed of in years prior to 2007. 64    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 3	 Segmental	analysis	(continued)
 Antenna & Electronic Components Laird Security 
 Wireless Systems & Systems Systems Total
 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 
        (restated)
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment	assets 374.0 256.4 385.9 332.5 – 164.5 759.9 753.4
Unallocated assets – – – – – – 31.7 4.3
Total	assets 374.0 256.4 385.9 332.5 – 164.5 791.6 757.7
Segment	liabilities 69.8 36.9 56.0 42.4 – 33.9 125.8 113.2
Unallocated liabilities        
– borrowings – – – – – – 118.2 153.1
– other – – – – – – 99.2 82.7
Total	liabilities 69.8 36.9 56.0 42.4 – 33.9 343.2 349.0
Other	segment	items        
Capital expenditure  14.9 9.6 15.3 11.1 2.0 6.3 32.2  27.0
Acquisition of businesses 72.6 40.0 18.2 62.3 – 13.4 90.8 115.7
Total additions 87.5 49.6 33.5 73.4 2.0 19.7 123.0 142.7
Depreciation 3.7 2.2 9.4 5.8 1.7 5.3 14.8 13.3
Amortisation of intangible assets 8.2 5.3 3.9 1.7 0.3 1.0 12.4 8.0
Secondary	reporting	format	–	geographical	segments
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis. The operations are based in four main geographical areas.  
The parent company is resident in the UK. The main operations in the principal territories were as follows:
UK, North America, Continental Europe, Asia and Rest of World.
The segment revenue analysis in the table below is based on the location of the customer. Segment assets and additions 
during the year are based on location of production.
 Segment revenue Segment assets Asset additions
  2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
     (restated)
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing	operations
United Kingdom 7.8 6.7 6.1 5.3 0.7 –
North America 126.9 104.7 429.2 350.5 79.4 83.7
Continental Europe 94.2 71.4 119.3 89.4 3.7 23.1
Asia 324.9 179.0 205.3 143.7 37.2 16.5
Rest of World 10.5 8.8 – – – –
  564.3 370.6 759.9 588.9 121.0 123.3
Discontinued	operations
United Kingdom 42.1 124.7 – 92.4 1.0 6.4
North America 28.8 107.7 – 66.2 1.0 13.0
Continental Europe 0.1 4.4 – – – –
Asia 1.4 0.5 – 5.9 – –
Rest of World 0.5 0.4 – – – –
  72.9 237.7 – 164.5 2.0 19.4
Total continuing and  
  discontinued 637.2 608.3 759.9 753.4 123.0 142.7
Unallocated – –	 31.7 4.3 – –
  637.2 608.3 791.6 757.7 123.0 142.7 The Laird Group PLC    65   
note
	 4	 Revenue	
Revenue disclosed in the Income Statement is analysed as follows:
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
Sale of goods    
Total      637.2	 608.3
Less: from discontinued operations      (72.9) (237.7)
Revenue     564.3 370.6
Finance revenue     2.8 2.1
Total	revenue      567.1 372.7
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods and services (2006, £nil).
	 5	 Exchange	rates	
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted average rates of exchange for 
the year. The principal rates used were as follows:
 Average   Closing
    2007 2006 2007 2006
Euros   1.46 1.47 1.36 1.48
US dollars   2.00 1.85 1.99 1.96
Renminbi   15.22 14.70 14.54 15.28
	 6			 Operating	profit	before	finance	costs	and	tax
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
Revenue      564.3 370.6
Cost of sales      (378.7) (233.4)
 
Gross profit     185.6 137.2
Selling, administration and other expenses    (105.0) (71.6)
Research and development costs (net)    (21.2) (16.3)
 
Operating profit before finance costs and tax    59.4 49.3
 
Included in selling, administration and other expenses are £10.4m (2006, £nil) of exceptional items as described in note 7  
to the financial statements and £10.2m (2006, £6.1m) of amortisation relating to acquired intangible assets. 66    The Laird Group PLC
note
	 6			 Operating	profit	before	finance	costs	and	tax	(continued)
    2007	 2007 2006 2006
   	 Continuing	 Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
    operations	 operations operations operations
    £m	 £m £m £m
Profit for the year is stated after charging the following items: 
Staff costs   94.1	 16.0 66.1 50.3
 
Exceptional items    10.4	 0.6 – –
 
Research and development expenditure 
 Incurred   25.0	 0.1 19.9 1.0
 Capitalised	 	 	 (3.8)	 (0.1) (3.6) (0.2)
 
Depreciation and amortisation 
 Property, plant and equipment   13.1	 1.7 8.0 5.3
 Intangible assets   12.2	 0.3 7.0 1.0
 
Operating lease rentals 
 Hire of plant and machinery   1.0	 0.3 0.5 1.1
 Other   4.2	 1.1 4.6 3.4
 
Auditors’ remuneration* 
 Audit fees 
 – Group accounts   0.2	 –	 0.2 –
 – Local statutory audit   0.6	 – 0.6 0.2
 Tax fees 
 – Compliance services   0.4	 0.1 0.4 0.1
 – Planning services   1.0	 – 0.6 –
Transaction support services   0.1	 0.9 0.2 –
Other services   0.1	 – – –
* In addition, fees of £0.3m (2006, £0.8m) for services largely in respect of acquisitions were paid to the auditors but not charged against 
operating profit. Total fees paid to the auditors were £3.7m (2006, £3.1m). 
	 7	 Exceptional	items	
      2007 2006
      £m  £m
Continuing operations: 
Antenna and Wireless Systems
  Asset write downs     (0.2) –
  Other restructuring      (0.9) –
 Acquisition related payments     (0.6) –
Electronic Components and Systems
  Asset write downs     (2.9) –
  Other restructuring      (5.8) –
     	 (10.4) –
Finance costs incurred on the early repayment of Private Placement notes  (1.5) –
Discontinued operations: 
Laird Security Systems 
 Restructuring costs     (0.6) –
      (12.5) –
Note
(a)  Finance costs of £1.5m (2006, £nil) were incurred on the early repayment of US$ Private Placement notes. This arose 
due to the divestment of a company which issued the notes.
(b) The total cash outlay for exceptional costs in 2007 was £4.6m (2006, £0.5m).
(c) The tax effect on exceptional items is a £1.6m tax credit (2006, £nil).
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007 The Laird Group PLC    67   
note
	 8	 Directors’	emoluments	
      2007 2006
     	 £m  £m
Emoluments  
 Fees     0.2 0.2
 Salaries and benefits     1.4 1.6
 Pension contributions     0.3 0.3
 
Performance incentive awards  
 Bonuses      1.2 1.0
 Share based payments     0.9 0.7
     	 4.0 3.8
Aggregate notional and other gains on the exercise of share options by directors have been disclosed in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on page 49.
	 9	 Employees	
     	 2007 2006
     	 Number Number
Average number of Group employees 
  Antenna and Wireless Systems     5,270 3,377
 Electronic Components and Systems    6,188 4,756
 
 Continuing operations     11,458 8,133
  
 Discontinued operations    	 839 2,601
      12,297 10,734
The total number of Group employees at 31 December 2007 was 14,332 (2006, 11,314).
     	 2007 2006
    	 	 £m £m
Employee costs  
 Wages and salaries     94.7 99.8
 Social security costs     11.3 11.0
 Other pension costs     2.1 4.0
 Share based payments     2.0 1.6
    	 	 110.1 116.4
Compensation of key management personnel (excluding directors)
Key management personnel comprise members of the management team as defined by IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”. 
In 2006 key management personnel included the management team of Laird Security Systems.
     	 2007 2006
        	£m    £m
Short term employee benefits     3.5 4.1
Post employment benefits    	 0.3 0.5
Termination benefits     – –
Share based payments     0.5 0.5
      4.3 5.1
  68    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 10	 Finance	costs	and	revenues
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Interest expense 
 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts    4.8 5.5
 Interest payable on other loans     5.7 6.3
 Other finance charges     0.7 0.7
Finance costs    	 11.2 12.5
Exceptional finance costs     1.5 –
Fair value adjustment on interest rate swaps    (1.2) (0.2)
     	 11.5 12.3
Interest income    	 (2.8) (2.1)
	 11	 Taxation
      2007 2006
      £m £m
(a) Analysis of the tax charge / (credit) for the year 
 Current tax 
   UK corporation tax – continuing operations   	 – 0.2
                    – discontinued operations    – (0.2)
 UK corporation tax     	 – –
 Overseas tax – continuing operations   	 17.4 4.6
 – discontinued operations   	 2.4 6.5
 
 Adjustments in respect of prior years – continuing operations  	 (3.9) (0.5)
   – discontinued operations  	 – (1.4)
 Total current tax charge     	 15.9 9.2
 
 Deferred tax 
   Continuing operations    	 (1.2) 7.4
   Discontinued operations    	 (1.6) (0.1)
   Adjustments in respect of prior years – continuing operations  	 (0.5) (2.9)
 Total deferred tax charge / (credit)    	 (3.3) 4.4
 Tax charge in the income statement   	 12.6 13.6
 The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows: 
   Tax charge on continuing operations   	 11.8 8.8
   Tax charge on discontinued operations   	 0.8 4.8
     	 12.6 13.6
(b) Tax included in the statement of recognised  income and expense
 The tax charge / (credit) is made up as follows: 
 Current tax  – exchange differences   	 (0.7) 1.9
 Deferred tax – exchange differences   	 – (0.8)
  – actuarial gains / losses on retirement benefit obligations  1.7 –
     	 1.0 1.1
  The Laird Group PLC    69   
note
	 11  Taxation	(continued)
(c) Reconciliation of the total tax charge / (credit) for the year
  The tax charge / (credit) in the income statement for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 
of 30% (2006, 30%). The differences are reconciled below:
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 Profit before tax from continuing operations   	 51.5 39.6
 Profit before tax from discontinued operations   	 88.8 24.7
 
 Profit before tax     140.3 64.3
 
 Profit before tax multiplied by the  standard rate of corporation  tax in the UK of 30% (2006, 30%)	 42.1 19.3
 Effects of: 
 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes    	 7.4 4.6
 Non taxable profit on disposal    	 (25.6) –
 Regional tax incentives    	 (12.4) (9.7)
 Overseas tax rate differences    	 2.6 2.4
 Adjustments in respect of prior years   	 (4.4) (4.8)
 Unrelieved tax losses    	 2.9 1.8
 
 Total tax expense reported in the income statement   	 12.6 13.6
 
 (d)   Factors that may affect future tax charges 
Since the Group operates internationally, it is subject to income taxes in many different tax jurisdictions. The Group’s 
average expected tax rate is a weighted average of the tax rates in the tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates and 
may vary depending upon results in each jurisdiction. On 21 March 2007, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced 
that with effect from 1 April 2008 the standard rate of UK Corporation tax will reduce from 30% to 28%. The reduced tax 
rate was included in the Finance Bill 2007. The Finance Bill passed through the House of Commons on 27 June 2007 
and is therefore considered substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
	 12	 Discontinued	operations
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Results	from	discontinued	operations:	
Revenue    	 72.9 237.7
Operating profit before:    	 4.4 27.8
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets   	 (0.3) (1.0)
Exceptional items    	 (0.6) –
Taxation    	 (1.1) (7.4)
Profit after tax from discontinued operations   	 2.4 19.4
Profit	on	disposal	of	businesses:
Profit before transfer from translation reserve   	 108.8 –
Transfer from translation reserve    	 (19.5) –
Profit on current year disposals    	 89.3 –
Loss on prior year disposals    	 (4.0) (2.1)
Taxation    	 0.3 2.6
Profit after tax on disposals    	 85.6 0.5
Profit from discontinued operations    	 88.0 19.9
 The results from discontinued operations are the results from Laird Security Systems, which was disposed of on 27 April 
2007 for a total consideration of £242.5m. 70    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 13	 Earnings	per	share
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the profit for the year divided by the daily average 
of the number of shares in issue during the year. Diluted earnings per share is based on the same profits but with the 
number of shares increased to reflect the daily average effect of relevant share options granted but not yet exercised where 
performance conditions have been met and shares contingently issuable.
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Profit 
Profit after tax from continuing operations   	 39.7 30.8
Profit from discontinued operations    	 88.0 19.9 
Profit for the year     	 127.7 50.7 
      Number	of	 Number of
      shares	 shares
      (m) (m)
Weighted	average	shares 
Basic weighted average shares    	 185.9 189.2
Options    	 1.8 1.5 
Diluted weighted average shares    	 187.7 190.7 
 
     	 Pence Pence
Earnings	per	share 
Basic from continuing operations    	 21.4 16.3
Diluted from continuing operations    	 21.2 16.2
Basic from discontinued operations    	 47.3 10.5
Diluted from discontinued operations    	 46.9 10.4
Basic on profit for the year    	 68.7 26.8 
Diluted on profit for the year    	 68.0 26.6  The Laird Group PLC    71   
note
	 14	 Underlying	results
Underlying profit and earnings per share are shown as the Board considers them to be relevant guides to the performance of 
the Group. The tax charge for the year is equivalent to 15.5% (2006, 18.1%) of underlying profit before tax.
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Profit 
Continuing profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items	 	 80.0 55.4
Finance revenue    	 2.8 2.1
Finance costs    	 (11.2) (12.5)
Other finance revenue – pension    	 0.8 0.5
Continuing underlying profit before tax   	 72.4 45.5
Discontinued operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items		 4.4 27.8
Total underlying profit before tax    	 76.8 73.3
Tax	
The underlying tax charge is calculated as follows: 
Underlying tax on continuing operations   	 10.8 6.3
Underlying tax on discontinued operations   	 1.1 7.0
Total underlying tax    	 11.9 13.3
Continuing underlying tax rate    	 14.9% 13.8%
Total underlying tax rate    	 15.5% 18.1%
Tax relief on exceptional items    	 (1.6) –
Deferred tax on goodwill and acquired intangible assets  	 2.2 2.5
Tax on prior period discontinued operations   	 (0.3) (2.2)
Tax on fair value movement financial instruments   	 0.4 –
Total tax charge    	 12.6 13.6
Analysis of tax charge: 
Tax on profit from continuing operations   	 11.8 8.8
Tax on discontinued operations    	 0.8 4.8
Total tax charge    	 12.6 13.6
      Pence Pence
Earnings	per	share    	
Continuing underlying earnings per share – basic   	 33.1 20.7
Total underlying earnings per share – basic   	 34.9 31.7
Total underlying earnings per share – diluted   	 34.6 31.5
	 15	 Dividends	paid	and	proposed
On 11 March 2008 the Board declared, subject to approval from shareholders, a final dividend of 7.88p per share (2006, 6.45p).  
The final dividend will be paid on 6 June 2008 to shareholders registered on 2 May 2008. Dividends paid are charged to 
retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a legal liability of the Company.
Total Dividends   Dividends
  Dividends paid declared / proposed*
	 	 	 	 2007 2006	 2007 2006
   	 £m £m	 £m £m
 
Final 2005  	 – 12.8	 – –
Interim 2006  	 – 6.6	 – 6.6
Final 2006  	 13.9 –	 – 13.9
Special 2007  	 99.7 –	 99.7 –
Interim 2007  	 6.4 –	 6.4 –
Final 2007  	 – –	 14.0 –
   	 120.0 19.4	 120.1 20.5
* attributable to the period 72    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 15	 Dividends	paid	and	proposed	(continued)
Dividends per share   Dividends
  Dividends paid declared / proposed*
	 	 	 	 2007 2006	 2007 2006
   	 Pence Pence	 Pence Pence
 
 
Final 2005  	 – 6.45	 – –
Interim 2006  	 – 3.35	 – 3.35
Final 2006  	 6.95 –	 – 6.95
Special 2007  	 50.00 –	 50.00 –
Interim 2007  	 3.62 –	 3.62 –
Final 2007  	 – –	 7.88 –
   	 60.57 9.80	 61.50 10.30
* attributable to the period
	 16	 Property,	plant	and	equipment
     Land and Plant and 
     buildings machinery Total
       £m £m £m
 
Cost	 
At 1 January 2006    27.6 115.9 143.5
Additions    3.2 19.7 22.9
New businesses    0.6 3.7 4.3
Disposals    (2.1) (3.9) (6.0)
Foreign currency adjustment    (2.6) (11.7) (14.3)
At 31 December 2006    26.7 123.7 150.4
Additions    6.9 21.4 28.3
New businesses    – 1.3 1.3
Disposals    (12.5) (55.0) (67.5)
Foreign currency adjustment    0.9 2.1 3.0
At 31 December 2007    22.0 93.5 115.5
 
Accumulated	depreciation 
At 1 January 2006    4.7 57.2 61.9
Charge for year    1.3 12.0 13.3
Disposals    (0.3) (3.1) (3.4)
Foreign currency adjustment     (0.8) (7.2) (8.0)
At 31 December 2006    4.9 58.9 63.8
Charge for year    2.4 12.4 14.8
Disposals    (3.4) (36.1) (39.5)
Foreign currency adjustment     – 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 2007    3.9 35.5 39.4
Net	book	value	at	31	December	2007	 	 	 18.1	 58.0	 76.1
Net book value at 31 December 2006   21.8 64.8 86.6
Net book value at 1 January 2006    22.9 58.7 81.6 The Laird Group PLC    73   
note
	 17	 Intangible	assets
      Other
   Capitalised   acquired
   development  Customer intangible 
   costs Goodwill relationships  assets Total
   £m £m £m £m £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2006  2.7 354.9 26.3 19.2 403.1
Additions  3.8 – – 0.3 4.1
Acquisition of businesses  – 63.3 34.3 9.7 107.3
 Adjustments in respect of prior year 
  acquisitions  – 3.2 – –  3.2
Foreign currency adjustment   (0.3) (38.3) (4.5) (2.7) (45.8)
At 31 December 2006  6.2 383.1 56.1 26.5 471.9
Additions  3.9 – – – 3.9
Acquisition of businesses in the year  – 56.6 20.4 9.9 86.9
 Adjustments in respect of prior year
 acquisitions  – 0.3 (1.3) 2.1 1.1
Disposal of businesses  (0.3) (51.8) (9.1) (0.9) (62.1)
Foreign currency adjustment   0.2 (2.0) 0.2 (0.5) (2.1)
At 31 December 2007  10.0 386.2 66.3 37.1 499.6
Amortisation 
At 1 January 2006  0.2 32.4 2.7 3.3 38.6
Charge for the year  1.0 – 4.1 3.0 8.1
Foreign currency adjustment   – (3.3) (0.5) (0.7) (4.5)
At 31 December 2006  1.2 29.1 6.3 5.6 42.2
Charge for the year   2.0 – 6.5 4.0 12.5
Disposal of businesses  – (4.5) (1.3) (0.2) (6.0)
Foreign currency adjustment   – (0.1) 0.1 (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2007  3.2 24.5 11.6 9.3 48.6
Net	book	value	at	31	December	2007	 6.8	 361.7	 54.7	 27.8	 451.0
Net book value at 31 December 2006 5.0 354.0 49.8 20.9 429.7
Net book value at 1 January 2006  2.5 322.5 23.6 15.9 364.5
Capitalised	development	costs
Internally generated assets arising from the capitalisation of qualifying development expenditure in 2007 typically have a 
finite expected useful life of less than 3 years. Capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a straight line basis. 
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits. The total amount of research and 
development activity expensed during 2007 is £25.1m (2006, £20.9m). There is no indication of impairment for capitalised 
development costs.
Goodwill
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for indications of impairment in accordance with IAS 36. No indications of 
impairment to goodwill were identified.
Antenna and Wireless Systems had a goodwill balance of £182.3m at the year end (2006, £135.6m). Electronic Components 
and Systems had a goodwill balance of £179.4m at the year end (2006, £172.2m). All of the recoverable amounts are based 
on value in use.
For Antenna and Wireless Systems and Electronic Components and Systems the key assumptions were:
• Projected cash flows for 2008 to 2012 (2006: 2007 to 2011)
•  The equity market risk premium, calculated as 4.0% (2006, 4.0%). This is an internally calculated figure, having been 
confirmed with external advisors as being reasonable
•  Laird’s beta, calculated as 1.1 (2006, 1.1). This is an internally calculated figure, having been confirmed with external 
advisors as being reasonable
The forecasts provided are based on figures approved internally for the 2008 budget, which also include estimates for 2009 
to 2012. Cash flow for 2013 has been increased at a conservative rate estimate of 3% (2006, 3%) per annum. The cash flow 
figures were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 10.1% (2006, 10.3%).
With regard to the assessment of value in use for both Antenna and Wireless Systems and Electronic Components and 
Systems, management believe that no reasonable possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the 
value in use to be lower than the carrying value. 74    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 17	 Intangible	assets	(continued)
Other	acquired	intangible	assets
Assets in this class are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits. 
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets:
 Brand names – 5 years
 Trade secrets – 8 to 15 years
 Trade marks and names – 5 to 15 years
 Patents – the remaining duration of the 17 year legal right
 Licence – the remaining duration of the 20 year legal right
 Customer relationships – 10 years
The expected life assigned to acquired customer relationships is an estimate and is not secured by any legal obligation on 
the customer to continue business with the Group for any finite period. Other than goodwill, the Group does not hold any 
intangible assets with an indefinite life.
	 18	 Business	combinations
Acquisition	of	businesses	in	2007
The Group purchased three businesses during the year for a total consideration of £83.4m in cash, all of these purchases 
have been accounted for as acquisitions. All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual 
excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
Book and fair values of the net assets of businesses acquired, stated at rates of exchange at the date of acquisition were 
as follows:
      	 Fair
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 values
      Book	 to	the
      values	 Group
      £m	 £m
 
Property, plant and equipment     1.3	 1.3
Intangible assets      –	 31.1
Inventories     3.3	 3.3
Trade and other receivables     7.8	 7.5
Income tax recoverable / (payable)     0.3	 (1.2)
Trade and other payables     (6.3)	 (6.3)
Deferred tax liabilities     (1.0)	 (10.3)
Net	assets	acquired     5.4	 25.4
 
Goodwill arising on acquisition     	 58.0
 
Consideration     	 83.4
 
Consideration	satisfied	by: 
Cash consideration (including transaction costs)    	 (82.4)
Deferred cash consideration     	 (2.6)
Net cash acquired     	 1.6
      	 (83.4)
In January 2007, AeroComm Inc, a USA based supplier of wireless communications solutions was acquired for a 
consideration of £19.1m. In February 2007, Cushcraft Holdings Corporation, a USA based designer and manufacturer of 
antennae and accessory products was acquired for a consideration of £45.9m. Also in February 2007, M2sys Co., Ltd, a 
South Korean based supplier of actuation devices, was acquired for £17.0m. The Group has acquired a 100% interest in 
all of the acquisitions noted above. Underlying profit before tax for the entities acquired in the period totals £11.9m since 
acquisition. If all of the acquisitions noted above had been held for the full year, revenues would have been £7.8m higher at 
£572.1m and profits would have been £1.4m higher, at £52.9m. 
There have been changes made during 2007 to the provisional fair values of £114.2m assigned to acquisitions made in 
2006 and deferred consideration arising from prior year acquisition agreements. The effect of these changes was to increase 
goodwill carried forward at 31 December 2007 by £0.2m and total consideration by £0.3m.
Details of all significant subsidiaries held by the Group are disclosed in the list of ‘Principal subsidiaries’ on page 94. After the 
balance sheet date the Group has acquired Ezurio Limited for a consideration of £12.5m. The Laird Group PLC    75   
note
	 18	 Business	combinations	(continued)
Acquisition	of	businesses	in	2006
The Group purchased six businesses during the year for a total consideration of £114.2m and all of these purchases have 
been accounted for as acquisitions. All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual excess 
over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
Book and fair values of the net assets of businesses acquired, stated at rates of exchange at the date of acquisition were 
as follows:
      	 Fair
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 values
      Book	 to	the
      values	 Group
      £m	 £m
 
Property, plant and equipment     4.3	 4.3
Intangible assets     –	 45.4
Inventories     7.8	 7.5
Trade and other receivables     17.8	 17.5
Trade and other payables     (14.9)	 (15.0)
Income tax payable     (1.1)	 (1.0)
Deferred tax liabilities     (0.7)	 (9.1)
Net	assets	acquired     13.2	 49.6
 
Goodwill arising on acquisition     	 64.9
 
Consideration     	 114.5
 
Consideration	satisfied	by: 
Cash consideration (including transaction costs)    	 (99.2)
Deferred cash consideration     	 (3.9)
Net cash acquired     	 0.9
 
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (102.2)
Borrowings acquired     	 (12.3)
 
      	 (114.5)
In March 2006, Balance UK, a UK based supplier of window balances for vertically sliding windows was acquired for a 
consideration of £3.3m, Bandlock Corporation, a USA based supplier of custom PVC extrusions mainly for fenestration and 
door markets, was acquired for a consideration of £10.4m and Antenex, a USA based supplier of wireless communications 
antennae was acquired for £10.1m. Also, in March 2006, RecepTec, based in Germany and the USA, a supplier of wireless 
communications antennae was acquired for a consideration of £54.7m. In December 2006, Steward, which supplies ferrite 
based products for the electronics industry and is based in the USA, Mexico and China, was acquired for a consideration of 
£26.8m. Also in December 2006, Coolab AB, a Swedish based supplier of thermoelectric modules and cooling systems, was 
acquired for £8.9m. The Group has acquired a 100% interest in all of the acquisitions noted above. Profit before tax for the 
entities acquired in the period totals £2.9m since acquisition. If all of the acquisitions noted above had been held for the full 
year, continuing revenues would have been £37.7m higher at £408.3m and continuing profits would have been £2.2m higher, 
at £41.8m, discontinued revenues would have been £1.8m higher at £239.5m and discontinued profits would have been 
£0.3m higher at £27.1m. 
	 19	 Inventories	
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Raw materials and consumables    	 23.8 30.4
Work in progress    	 1.9 5.1
Finished goods    	 29.7 34.1
     	 55.4 69.6
Expenses relating to inventories written down during the period totalled £0.6m (2006, £1.3m). 76    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 20	 Trade	and	other	receivables	
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Trade receivables    	 131.8 109.9
Other receivables    	 24.9 9.9
Prepayments and accrued income    	 3.2 3.7
     	 159.9 123.5
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Sterling    	 0.4 23.2
Euros    	 13.6 8.3
US dollars    	 73.3 52.1
Renminbi    	 30.2 18.0
Others    	 14.3 8.3
     	 131.8 109.9
Out of the carrying amount of trade receivables of £131.8m (2006, £109.9m), £76.6m is against ten major customers 
(2006, £38.9m).
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision 
for impairment. As at 31 December 2007, trade receivables at nominal value of £1.3m (2006, £2.0m) were impaired and fully 
provided for. Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows:
      2007 2006
      £m £m
At 1 January    	 2.0 1.4
Charge for the year    	 0.5 0.9
Amounts written off    	 – (0.1)
Unused amounts reversed    	 – (0.2)
Acquired / (disposed of) in period    	 (1.2) –
At 31 December    	 1.3 2.0
As at 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
   Neither past
   due nor Less than   More than
  Total impaired 30 days 30-60 days  60-90 days 90 days
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
31 December 2007 131.8 101.6 17.6 5.9 3.2 3.5
31 December 2006 109.9 83.3 14.5 8.9 1.3 1.9
The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical 
information relating to the counterparty default rates is used.
	 21	 Cash		
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand    	 32.8 44.0
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, “Cash and cash equivalents” comprises the following at 
31 December:
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand    	 32.8 44.0
Bank overdrafts    	 (0.4) –
      32.4 44.0 The Laird Group PLC    77   
note
	 22	 Borrowings
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Current:
Bank overdrafts    	 0.4 –
Short term borrowings    	 0.2 1.1
Acquisition related Loan Notes due 2008   	 2.5 3.6
US Private Placement loans due 2008   	 6.3 –
Finance lease obligations     	 – 0.2
     	 9.4 4.9
Non-current: 
Acquisition related Loan Notes due 2009   	 4.5 7.3
US Private Placement loans due 2012   	 5.0 25.6
US Private Placement loans due 2014/2016   	 69.9 71.0
Other term loans    	 29.4 44.2
Finance lease obligations     	 – 0.1
     	 108.8 148.2
Total	borrowings    	 118.2 153.1
Borrowings	are	repayable	as	follows: 
Within one year 
  Bank    	 0.6 1.1
  Other    	 8.8 3.6
  Finance leases    	 – 0.2
Between one and two years  
  Other    	 4.5 9.1
  Finance leases    	 – 0.1
Between two and five years 
  Bank    	 29.4 44.2
  Other    	 5.0 13.2
In five years or more 
  Other    	 69.9 81.6
Total	borrowings    	 118.2 153.1
Notes
(a) There are no borrowings secured on the assets of subsidiary undertakings (2006, £nil).  
(b)  US Private Placement loans, arising from private placements of debt with US insurance companies, comprise $22.5m 
(2006, $50m) repayable between 2008 and 2012 at an average fixed rate of interest of 7.33% and $140m (2006, $140m) 
repayable between 2014 and 2016 at an average fixed rate of interest of 5.64%.
(c)  The Group had committed bilateral revolving bank loan facilities of £195m which were underwritten in excess of four 
years. Drawings by Group companies under these facilities were £29.2m (2006, £44.2m). Although these drawings are 
repayable within one year they are classified as long term as they can be refinanced under the terms of the facilities. 
(d)  Ancillary costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings are amortised over the term of the facility, using 
the effective interest rate method.
	 23	 Operating	lease	commitments	–	minimum	lease	payments
    	 2007 2006
   	 Land	and  Land and 
   	 buildings	 Other buildings Other
   	 £m	 £m £m £m
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year  	 4.7	 1.0 8.6 1.2
Later than one year and less than five years 	 14.0	 0.9 20.3 0.8
After five years  	 2.7	 – 16.5 –
   	 21.4	 1.9 45.4 2.0 78    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 24	 Trade	and	other	payables	
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Trade payables    	 87.9 71.9
Social security costs    	 0.8 1.5
Other payables    	 31.3 21.8
Accruals and deferred income    	 12.8 11.6
     	 132.8 106.8
	 25	 Deferred	taxes	
Deferred	tax	assets     2007 2006
      £m £m
Losses    	 0.8 –
Other temporary differences    	 0.6 0.1
     	 1.4 0.1
Deferred	tax	liabilities     2007 2006
      £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances    	 41.4 33.3
Tax losses carried forward    	 – (2.7)
Chargeable gains    	 – 0.7
Other temporary differences    	 2.5 2.4
     	 43.9 33.7
 
Movements on deferred tax liabilities during the year were:
   Accelerated tax  Rolled over 
   depreciation Losses gains Other Total
   £m £m £m £m £m
 
At 1 January 2006  22.1 (4.2) 2.8 2.4 23.1
Acquisitions  0.1 – – 0.2 0.3
Charged / (credited) to the income statement 4.6 1.4 (2.1) 0.5 4.4
Charged to the statement of 
  recognised income and expense  – – – (0.8) (0.8)
Fair value of intangible assets acquired 8.1 – – 0.3 8.4
Foreign exchange  (1.5) 0.1 – (0.3) (1.7)
 
At 1 January 2007  33.4 (2.7) 0.7 2.3 33.7
Acquisitions and disposals  (4.7) 2.7 – 2.3 0.3
Charged / (credited) to the  
  income statement  2.4 (0.8) (0.7) (4.2) (3.3)
Charged to the statement of 
  recognised income and expense  – – – 1.7 1.7
Reclassification to deferred tax assets  – 0.8 – 0.5 1.3
Fair value of intangible assets acquired 10.6 – – (0.3) 10.3
Foreign exchange  (0.3) – – 0.2 (0.1)
 
At 31 December 2007  41.4 – – 2.5 43.9
Deferred tax assets have been established in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences where it is probable that 
these assets will be recovered.
Unrecognised	tax	losses
Deferred tax assets have not been established on trading losses of £5.7m (2006, £11.0m) where it is unlikely that future relief 
would be available at the balance sheet date.
Temporary	differences	associated	with	Group	investments
No deferred tax has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries. The taxable temporary difference 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to £2.8m 
(2006, £0.5m).
Change	in	UK	Corporation	tax	rate
The UK Corporation tax rate will decrease from 30% to 28% from 1 April 2008. The deferred tax balance has been adjusted 
in the current year to reflect this change. The Laird Group PLC    79   
note
	 26	 Other	non-current	liabilities	
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Other creditors    	 1.7 5.9
Accruals and deferred income    	 0.4 –
     	 2.1 5.9
	 27	 Provisions		 	 	 	 	 	 	
    Warranty  Onerous
    claims lease Other Total
    £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2007 
Current   – 0.3 0.6 0.9
Non-current   3.1 3.4 3.1 9.6
    3.1 3.7 3.7 10.5
Provided   2.9 – 1.7 4.6
Utilised    – (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
Disposals   – (3.6) (0.4) (4.0)
At 31 December 2007   6.0 – 4.8 10.8
Analysed as:
Current   6.0 – 1.1 7.1
Non-current   – – 3.7 3.7
    6.0 – 4.8 10.8
Provisions provided for during the year of £4.6m include £2.9m of warranty claims and £1.1m of other provisions which 
relate to businesses disposed of in prior years.
Warranty claims are in respect of potential warranty and  other claims arising from the disposal of businesses.
Other provisions consist mostly of amounts provided in respect of events arising from trade and various other provisions from 
Group companies that do not fit into distinct categories. The timing of cash outflows for warranty claims and other provisions 
are by their nature uncertain and dependent upon the outcome of related events. The best estimates are shown in the 
table above.  80    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 28	 Financial	instruments
An explanation of the Group’s financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the 
notes to the financial statements (Note 2).	
Financial	assets
The financial assets of the Group comprised:
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Current	      
Cash at bank and in hand (Note 21)     32.8	 44.0
Trade and other receivables (Note 20)     159.9	 123.5
      192.7	 167.5
Non-current	      
Other non-current receivables     0.7	 3.5
      0.7	 3.5
Financial	liabilities
The financial liabilities of the Group comprised:
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Current	      
Borrowings (Note 22)     9.4	 4.9
Derivative financial instruments     –	 0.3
Trade and other payables (Note 24)     132.8	 106.8
      142.2	 112.0
Non-current	      
Borrowings (Note 22)     108.8	 148.2
Derivative financial instruments     –	 1.2
Other payables (Note 26)     2.1	 5.9
      110.9	 155.3
Interest	rate	risk	profile	of	financial	assets	and	liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest 
rate risk:
       More 
Year ended 31 December 2007  Within 1 – 2 2 – 3 3 – 4 4 – 5 than 5 
  1 year Years Years Years Years Years Total
 
Fixed	rate
$12.5m Loan Notes at 7.24% due 2008 6.3 – – – – – 6.3
$10m Loan Notes at 7.44% due 2012 – – 1.6 1.7 1.7 – 5.0
$97m Loan Notes at 5.59% due 2014 – – – – – 48.4 48.4
$43m Loan Notes at 5.76% due 2016 – – – – – 21.5 21.5
Sub Total 6.3 – 1.6 1.7 1.7 69.9 81.2
       
Floating	rate	      
Cash (32.8) – – – – – (32.8)
Bank overdrafts 0.4 – – – – – 0.4
Bilateral revolving bank loans – – – – 29.2 – 29.2
$14m floating rate Loan Notes 2.5 4.5 – – – – 7.0
Short term bank loans 0.2 – – – 0.2 – 0.4
 
Sub Total (29.7) 4.5 – – 29.4 – 4.2
 
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. 
Interest on the financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument. The Laird Group PLC    81   
note
			 28	 Financial	instruments	(continued)	
       More 
Year ended 31 December 2006 Within 1 – 2 2 – 3 3 – 4 4 – 5 than 5 
  1 year Years Years Years Years Years Total
 
Fixed rate
$12.5m Loan Notes at 7.24% due 2008 – 6.4 – – – – 6.4
$25m Loan Notes at 7.44% due 2012 – – – 4.3 4.3 4.2 12.8
$97m Loan Notes at 5.59% due 2014 – – – – – 49.2 49.2
$12.5m Loan Notes at 7.55% due 2014 – – – – – 6.4 6.4
$43m Loan Notes at 5.76% due 2016 – – – – – 21.8 21.8
$2m Loan Notes at 5% due 2007 1.0 – – – – – 1.0
Finance lease obligations  0.2 0.1 – – – – 0.3
Sub Total 1.2 6.5 – 4.3 4.3 81.6 97.9
       
Floating rate
Cash (44.0) – – – – – (44.0)
Bank overdrafts – – – – – – –
Bilateral revolving bank loans – – – – 44.2 – 44.2
$19m floating rate Loan Notes 2.6 2.7 4.6 – – – 9.9
Short term bank loans 1.1 – – – – – 1.1
Forward currency contracts 0.3 – – – – – 0.3
Interest rate swaps* – – 1.2 – – – 1.2
Sub Total (40.0) 2.7 5.8 – 44.2 – 12.7
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on the financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
* The effect of the interest rate swaps are discussed under fair value hedges below.
Derivative	financial	instruments	
The Group holds interest rate swap contracts to manage interest rate exposure with an underlying notional principal  
amount of $70m. The contracts have not been designated as a hedge and the increase in the fair value during 2007 of  
£1.2m (2006, £0.2m), has been taken to the Income Statement. 
Interest	rate	and	currency	profile
The Group’s policy is to maintain an appropriate balance between variable and fixed interest rate borrowings. Interest rate 
swaps and similar instruments are used to manage interest costs. $70.0m (£35.2m) of US Private Placement loans were 
swapped from fixed to variable interest rates for a five year term, expiring in 2009.
Interest	rate	risk
The following table shows the sensitivity to a change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s 
profit before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings). There is no impact on the Group’s equity. The interest rate 
considered is US dollar, being the currency in which the Group has historically issued debt and held investments.
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes  
those recognised at fair value as well as all non-derivative floating rate financial instruments. Where the Group has taken 
out fixed to variable interest rate swaps, the hedged loans are treated as floating rate borrowings for the purpose of the 
sensitivity analysis.
The 2007 analysis below reflects a larger possible change in interest rates than in 2006, due to increased volatility in the 
financial markets.
   Effect on profit before tax
  £m
2007
50 basis points increase in US dollar interest rates  0.3
A 50 basis point decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect.
2006	 
25 basis points increase in US dollar interest rates  0.2
A 25 basis point decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect. 82    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 28	 Financial	instruments	(continued)	
Credit	risk
Laird Technologies’ customer base is largely focused in the global electronics market where it has leading positions in its 
principal products with customers who themselves have significant market shares. Inevitably this results in levels of business 
and trade receivables that are material in the overall Group context.
Foreign	currency	risk
The Group’s revenues and profits are affected by currency movements on translating overseas revenues and profits into 
sterling for reporting purposes. The actual translation effects on cross border transactions which involve the sale of goods 
and services in currencies foreign to a Group entity are not significant taking into account that a number of currencies are 
linked to the US dollar. 
The Group does not have significant transactional currency exposures on financial assets and liabilities on which net currency 
gains and losses would be recognised in the Income Statement.   
The following table shows the sensitivity to a possible change in US dollar, Euro and Renminbi exchange rates against 
sterling with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s profit before tax (due to changes in the fair value of monetary 
assets, liabilities, and forward currency contracts) and the Group’s equity (due to changes in the fair value of forward currency 
hedges and net investment hedges). 
      Effect on profit Effect on
      before tax equity
      £m £m
2007	  
5% appreciation of the US dollar     (2.1) 4.5
5% appreciation of the Euro     0.4 –
5% appreciation of the Renminbi     0.7 –
2006	  
5% appreciation of the US dollar     (1.4) 6.3
5% appreciation of the Euro     0.2 –
5% appreciation of the Renminbi     1.0 –
A 5% depreciation of the stated currencies would have an equal and opposite effect.
Cash	flow	hedges
At 31 December 2007 the Group held no forward foreign exchange contracts (2006, 34) designated as hedges of expected 
future purchases from overseas suppliers. The forward currency contracts were used to hedge the foreign currency risk of 
these purchases. The terms of these contracts were for the Group to purchase a total of US$22,750,000 between 3 January 
2007 and 27 September 2007 at an average exchange rate of £/US$ 1.9093. The fair value movement in the period on 
these contracts was £nil (2006, loss of £0.3m).
Net	investment	hedging
Included in borrowings are US $181.7m of debt (£91.3m) which have been designated as a hedge of the net investments 
in the United States subsidiaries, Czk 374.1m (£10.3m) designated as a hedge of the net investment in the Czech Republic 
subsidiary and Sek 122.7m (£9.6m) designated as a hedge of the net investment in Swedish subsidiaries. Comparative 
figures for 2006 were US $193.2m (£98.7m), Czk 361.3m (£8.8m) and Sek 115.1m (£8.6m). These amounts are being used 
to hedge the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments. Gains or losses on the retranslation of the 
borrowings are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries. The Laird Group PLC    83   
note
		 28	 Financial	instruments	(continued)	
Liquidity	risk
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2007 and 2006 based on 
contractual undiscounted payments.
Year	ended	31	December	2007       More 
    On Within 1 1 – 5 than 5 
    demand Year Years Years Total
    £m £m £m £m £m
 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings    0.4 14.2 60.4 76.8 151.8
Interest rate swaps    – 0.2 (0.1) – 0.1
Trade and other payables    – 132.8 2.1 – 134.9
    0.4 147.2 62.4 76.8 286.8
Year ended 31 December 2006       More 
    On Within 1 1 – 5 than 5 
    demand Year Years Years Total
    £m £m £m £m £m
 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings    – 11.4 98.6 89.5 199.5
Forward currency contracts    – 0.3 – – 0.3
Interest rate swap    – 0.6 0.8 – 1.4
Finance lease obligation    – 0.2 0.1 – 0.3
Trade and other payables    – 106.8 5.9 – 112.7
    – 119.3 105.4 89.5 314.2
Undrawn	committed	borrowing	facilities
The Group’s financial policy is to maintain committed borrowing facilities, which provide substantial headroom over and 
above its day to day borrowing requirements. 
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December were as follows:
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Expiring between four and five years     	 165.8	 150.8
     	 165.8	 150.8
Loan	covenants
The principal covenants in the Group’s committed loan facilities and loan note agreements that place restrictions on net 
borrowings are based on UK GAAP and are set out below:
Interest cover
The interest cover covenant is for earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax, and amortisation (“EBITA”) to be not less 
than 2.5 times interest payable.
Net borrowings: EBITDA ratio
Net borrowings must not exceed 3.5 times earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
(“EBITDA”).
The Group was in compliance with the covenants detailed above at 31 December 2007.
Fair	value	of	financial	instruments
The US Private Placement loans with a book value of £81.2m (2006, £96.6m) have an estimated fair value of £78.1m 
(2006, £96.0m) which has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing coupon rates as at 31 December 2007.
There are no material differences between fair value and book value on any of the other financial instruments. 84    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 29			 Authorised	and	issued	share	capital	
	 	 	 	 	 2007	 	 2006
Authorised	 	 	 	 £m	 	 £m
 
248,888,888 (2006, 280,000,000) ordinary shares 
 of 28.125p each (2006, 25p each)   70.0  70.0
 
  2007	 2006
Issued	and	fully	paid	 	 	 Shares	 £m Shares £m
 
Ordinary	shares	of	28.125p	each	(2006,	25p	each)
At 1 January   198,174,845	 49.5 159,780,676 40.0
Issued by Right  	 –	 – 37,602,512 9.4
Issued for deferred consideration   –	 – 323,667 –
Issued for exercise of share options   1,245,176	 0.3 467,990 0.1
8 for 9 share consolidation   (22,157,773)	 – – –
 
At 31 December   177,262,248	 49.8 198,174,845 49.5
On 11 June 2007 a share consolidation took place whereby every 9 existing issued and unissued ordinary shares of 25p 
each were consolidated into 8 new ordinary shares of 28.125p each. During the year 218,464 ordinary shares were issued 
under the Company’s 1994 executive share option scheme for a consideration of £680,933 and 1,026,712 ordinary shares 
were issued under the Company’s 2003 executive share option scheme for a consideration of £2,522,583.
177,262,248 ordinary shares of 28.125p each were in issue at the year end (2006, 198,174,845 shares of 25p each).
At 31 December 2007, options to subscribe for 2,272,388 ordinary shares at prices between 161p and 587.5p were 
outstanding under the Company’s executive share option schemes. Options outstanding under the schemes are held by 
29 individuals and are exercisable at various times up to 15 May 2017. No further options have been granted since the 
year end.
	 30	 Share	based	payments
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 45 to 51, sets out the general terms and conditions including vesting 
requirements for the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the 1994 Share Option Scheme and the 2003 Executive Share Option 
Plans. Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) vest 3 years after they have been awarded to the employee, 
provided the employee is still employed by the Group. 
All share based payments are equity settled. An expense of £2.0m was recognised in the year (2006, £1.6m) before 
employer’s national insurance and was based on the fair value of the LTIP shares awarded, the RSP shares awarded and the 
share options granted.
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, and those granted during 
the year.
      2007 2006
      Number Number
Granted prior to 1 January     1,900,433 1,502,433
Lapsed prior to 1 January     (605,605) –
Vested and exercised prior to 1 January   	 (257,706) –
Outstanding as at 1 January     1,037,122 1,502,433
Granted during the year     266,750 398,000
Lapsed during the year    	 – (605,605)
Vested and exercised during the year    	 (255,583) (257,706)
Outstanding as at 31 December    	 1,048,289 1,037,122 The Laird Group PLC    85   
note
	 30	 Share	based	payments	(continued)
The following table shows the number of RSP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, and those granted during the year.
      2007 2006
      Number Number
Outstanding as at 1 January     202,400 –
Granted during the year     163,120 204,900
Lapsed during the year     (16,920) (2,500)
Vested and exercised during the year    	 (51,500) –
Outstanding as at 31 December     297,100 202,400
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options 
issued under the 1994 Share Option Scheme.
	 	 	 	 	 2007  2006
    2007	 WAEP 2006 WAEP
    Number (p) Number (p)
Outstanding as at 1 January
 Option prices 132-236p   290,443	 159 290,443 158
 Option prices 237-330p   121,958	 293 196,193 291
 Option prices 331-431p   114,534	 403 241,796 399
    526,935	 243 728,432 274
Exercised 
 Option prices 132-236p   (54,086)	 150 – –
 Option prices 237-330p   (49,844)	 278 (74,235) 289
  Option prices 331-431p   (114,534)	 403 (58,329) 375
Expired  	 –	 – (26,513) 431
Forfeited   –	 – (42,420) 402
    308,471	 194 526,935 243
Outstanding as at 31 December 
 Option prices 132-236p   236,357	 161 290,443 159
 Option prices 237-330p   72,114	 302 121,958 293
 Option prices 331-431p   –	 – 114,534 403
    308,471	 194 526,935 243
Exercisable at 31 December   308,471	 194 526,935 243
As at 1 January, options over 236,357 shares (2006, 236,357 shares) and at 31 December options over 236,357 shares 
(2006, 236,357 shares) were issued and a charge recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 and resulted in a charge against 
profits. The balance of the share options were granted prior to 7 November 2002 and do not result in a charge against profits 
in accordance with the transitional arrangements of IFRS 2. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the 
options exercised was 542p (2006, 383p). For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2007, the weighted average 
remaining contractual life is 4.4 years (2006, 4.0 years).  86    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 30	 Share	based	payments	(continued)
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options 
issued under the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan.
	 	 	 	 	 2007  2006
    2007	 WAEP 2006 WAEP
    Number (p) Number (p)
Outstanding as at 1 January 
 Option prices 132-236p   676,602	 195 962,213 195
 Option prices 237-323p   1,723,883	 299 1,994,497 298
 Option prices 324-458p   334,000	 458 – –
 Option prices 459-588p   –	 – – –
    2,734,485	 293 2,956,710 265
Issued   266,750	 588 398,000 458
Exercised 
 Option prices 132-236p   (439,811)	 195 (285,611) 195
 Option prices 237-323p   (586,901)	 284 (49,815) 269
  Option prices 324-458p  	 –	 – – –
 Option prices 459-588p   –	 – – –
Forfeited   (10,606)	 323 (284,799) 332
    1,963,917	 357 2,734,485 293
Outstanding as at 31 December
 Option prices 132-236p   236,791	 195 676,602 195
 Option prices 237-323p   1,126,376	 307 1,723,883 299
 Option prices 324-458p   334,000	 458 334,000 458
 Option prices 459-588p   266,750	 588 – –
   	 1,963,917	 357 2,734,485 293
Exercisable at 31 December   579,975	 240 676,602 195
All options in the table above were recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as noted above. The weighted average share price 
at the date of exercise for the options exercised was 571p (2006, 380p). For the share options outstanding at 31 December 
2007, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 7.3 years (2006, 7.6 years). 85,901 options (2006, 149,532) in 
the price range 132p to 236p, 404,589 options (2006, 504,282) in the price range 237p to 323p, 334,000 options (2006, 
334,000) in the price range 324p to 458p and 266,750 (2006, nil) in the price range 459p to 588p are subject to the higher 
performance targets set out in the table on page 49 of the Directors’ remuneration report.
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including the market based performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. The non-market company 
performance conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating the 
fair value. 
The weighted average fair value of LTIP awards during the year was 439p (2006, 253p), of RSP awards during the year was 
545p (2006, 427p) and of share options granted during the year was 162p (2006, 119p). The Laird Group PLC    87   
note
	 30	 Share	based	payments	(continued)
The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2007.
    LTIP LTIP
    &	RSP & RSP ESOP ESOP
    2007 2006 2007 2006
Dividend Yield (%)   2.5 2.75 2.5 2.75
Expected Share Price volatility (%)   25 25 25 25
Expected comparator volatility (%)   20 30 n/a n/a
Risk-free interest rate (%)   n/a n/a 5.3 4.7
Expected life of LTIP/option (years)   3.0 3.0 7.0 7.0
Weighted average share price (p)   587.3 460.3 587.5 460.3
The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise 
patterns that may occur. 
The expected volatility of the LTIP and RSP shares is based on historical volatility; average of monthly activity over the last 
three years. Expected volatility reflects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may 
not necessarily prove to be the actual outcome. Dividends are not payable on LTIP or RSP shares prior to vesting and this is 
taken into account in calculating the fair value. 
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting.
	 31	 Reconciliation	of	movements	in	equity
  Ordinary 
  share Share Retained Translation  Treasury 
  capital premium earnings reserve shares Total
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2006 40.0 155.5 119.9 (28.4) (2.7) 284.3
Total recognised income 
  and expense for the year – – 54.0 (30.6) – 23.4
Issue of shares – Rights Issue 9.4 108.2 – – – 117.6
Exercise of share options  0.1 0.9 – – – 1.0
Issue of shares on  
  acquisition of businesses – 1.4 – – – 1.4
Share based payments – – 1.6 – – 1.6
Purchase of treasury shares – – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Vesting of LTIPs – – (0.7) – 0.7 –
Dividends paid – – (19.4) – – (19.4)
At 1 January 2007 49.5 266.0 155.4 (59.0) (2.7) 409.2
Total recognised income and 
  expense for the year – – 129.7 24.4 – 154.1
Transfer between reserves  – – (37.9) 37.9 – –
Exercise of share options  0.3 2.9 – – – 3.2
Share based payments – – 2.0 – – 2.0
Vesting of LTIPs – – (0.8) – 0.8 –
Dividends paid – – (120.0) – – (120.0)
At 31 December 2007 49.8 268.9 128.4 3.3 (1.9) 448.5
The investment in Laird shares as held by the Laird Group 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“ESOP”) as described on page 50 of 
the Directors’ remuneration report are treated for accounting purposes as treasury shares. At 31 December 2007 the ESOP 
held 610,087 shares (2006, 996,118 shares) of which 579,048 relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan, the remaining shares 
are unallocated. The shares held by the ESOP had a total market value at that date of £3.5m (2006, £4.1m). 88    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
note
	 32		 Additional	cash	flow	information	
	 	 Cash	generation	from	operations
Continuing	operations     2007 2006
      £m     £m
Net profit after taxation     39.7 30.8
Depreciation and other non-cash items 
  Depreciation     10.3 7.9
  Amortisation of capitalised development costs    2.0 1.0
  Exceptional fixed asset write downs    3.1 –
  Loss on disposal of fixed assets     0.1 –
  Capitalised development costs     (3.8) (3.5)
  Share based payments     1.8 1.6
  Amortisation of acquired intangible assets    10.2 6.1
  Financial instruments – fair value adjustment    (1.2) (0.2)
  Pension charges      0.2 0.7
Other net finance costs     9.1 9.9
Taxation     11.8 8.8
Pension contributions     (14.1) (2.9)
Changes in working capital 
  Inventories      (19.6) (2.4)
  Trade and other receivables     (41.5) (17.7)
  Trade, other payables and provisions    39.5 13.2
      (21.6) (6.9)
 
Cash	generated	from	continuing	operations	 	 	 	 47.6 53.3
Discontinued	operations
 
Net profit after taxation     88.0 19.9
(Profit) / loss on disposal of businesses before taxation    (85.3) 2.1
Depreciation and other non-cash items 
  Depreciation     1.7 5.3
  Profit on disposal of fixed assets     – (0.7)
  Amortisation of acquired intangible assets    0.3 1.0
Taxation     0.8 4.8
Changes in working capital     (10.7) (4.9)
 
Cash	flow	from	discontinued	operations    (5.2) 27.5
Cash	generated	from	operations     42.4 80.8
Notes
(a)  Working capital movements from continuing operations are after creditor increases of £3.9m (2006, £nil) in respect of 
exceptional costs of redundancy and restructuring. The Laird Group PLC    89   
note
	 32	 Additional	cash	flow	information	(continued)
	 	 Net	cash	outflow	on	acquisitions	and	disposals
     	 2007 2006
     	 £m £m
Acquisition	of	businesses	
Consideration: 
Cash consideration    	 (80.6) (97.6)
Net cash acquired    	 1.6 0.9
     	 (79.0) (96.7)
Deferred consideration paid    	 (2.4) (5.3)
Net cash outflow on acquisition of businesses   	 (81.4) (102.0)
Borrowings acquired    	 – (11.6)
 
Disposal	of	businesses	
Consideration: 
Net cash consideration
  Current year disposals    	 219.4 –
  Prior year disposals    	 (0.2) (8.5)
     	 219.2 (8.5)
Cash disposed of    	 (0.1) –
Borrowings disposed of    	 0.8 –
Net cash inflow / (outflow) on disposal of businesses    	 219.9 (8.5)
The total disposal consideration and major classes of assets and liabilities sold during 2007, stated at average exchange 
rates, is as follows:
     	 2007 2006
     	 £m £m
Assets and liabilities disposed of other than cash
  Property, plant and equipment    	 27.3 –
  Intangible assets (including goodwill)   	 56.2 –
  Inventories    	 39.3 –
  Receivables    	 39.2 –
  Payables    	 (38.6) –
  Borrowings    	 (0.8) –
     	 122.6 – 
Cash and cash equivalents relating to the disposal in 2007:
  Cash consideration (after transaction costs)   	 219.4 –
  Cash disposed of    	 (0.1) –
Net cash inflow from disposal during the year    219.3 –
Gross consideration for the disposal in 2007 was £242.5m of which £12.5m was deferred for one year.
	 	 90    The Laird Group PLC
note
	 32	 Additional	cash	flow	information	(continued)
Analysis	of	movements	in	net	borrowings	
    At     At 31
    1 January Cash Acquisitions Non-cash Exchange December
Period to 31 December 2007   2007 flow and disposals changes differences 2007
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank 	 	 44.0 (12.5) – – 1.3 32.8
Overdrafts 	 	 – (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Loans due within one year  	 (4.7) (5.0) 0.6 – 0.1 (9.0)
Loans due after more than one year  	 (148.1) 37.2 – – 2.1 (108.8)
Finance leases  	 (0.3) 0.1 0.2 – – –
Total  	 (109.1) 19.4 0.8 – 3.5 (85.4)
    At     At 31
    1 January Cash  Non-cash Exchange December
Period to 31 December 2006   2006 flow Acquisitions  changes differences 2006
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
 
Cash at bank   23.9 22.5 – – (2.4) 44.0
Overdrafts   (2.2) 2.2 – – – –
Loans due within one year   (4.2) 3.0 (4.0) – 0.5 (4.7)
Loans due after more than one year   (165.0) 8.0 (7.6) – 16.5 (148.1)
Finance leases   (0.6) 0.3 – – – (0.3)
Total   (148.1) 36.0 (11.6) – 14.6 (109.1)
	 33	 Post	balance	sheet	event	
On 11 February 2008 the Group acquired Ezurio Limited, a UK based supplier of machine to machine solutions for wireless 
data applications, for a cash consideration of £12.5m on a debt free basis.
	 34	 Capital	commitments
      2007 2006
      £m £m
Future capital expenditure not provided  in the accounts 
  Contracts placed     1.1 6.9
	 35	 Contingent	liabilities	
There are legal claims against the Company or its subsidiary undertakings but none where the Board takes the view that it is 
likely that damages will be awarded against the Group which would have a materially adverse effect on its financial position. 
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007 The Laird Group PLC    91   
note
	 36		 Retirement	benefit	obligations
Pension schemes
The Group operates a number of pension schemes of both the defined benefit and defined contribution types.
15 employees (2006, 400) are members of six different defined benefit schemes and these schemes have approximately 
2,100 (2006, 1,900) deferred and current pensioners. The employer contributions made to these schemes during the year 
were £14.1m (2006, £3.2m). 
The total assessed value of the schemes’ assets at 31 December 2007, at their market value, is estimated at £97.9m 
(2006, £83.2m) and the liabilities estimated at £88.9m (2006, £93.2m). 
The Group has adopted IFRIC 14 which, depending on the rules of individual schemes, allows the Group to recognise 
pensions surpluses on the balance sheet where there is an unconditional right to a refund. The resultant aggregate net 
pension asset under IAS 19 is £8.1m (2006, £10.4m deficit). The impact of adopting IFRIC 14 was to recognise £11.8m 
(2006, £0.5m) of retirement benefit assets and to increase the actuarial gains recognised in the statement of recognised 
income and expense from £8.8m loss to £3.0m gain (2006, £4.2m gain to £4.7m gain).
The market value of the schemes’ assets, the present value of the schemes’ liabilities and the net pension assets and liability 
under IAS 19 at 31 December were as follows:
      Schemes
   Schemes	 	 in surplus	 	
   in	surplus	 	 	 with a right	 Other	
   with	a	right	 Other		 	 to a refund schemes Total
	 	 	 to	a	refund	 	schemes	 Total (restated) (restated) (restated)
   2007	 2007	 2007 2006 2006 2006
   £m	 £m	 £m £m £m £m
Annuities  3.9	 4.9	 8.8 – 10.3 10.3
Equities  32.9	 8.3	 41.2 4.2 41.3 45.5
Gilts and bonds  31.0	 9.8	 40.8 – 27.3 27.3
Other including cash  7.0	 0.1	 7.1 – 0.1 0.1
Total market value of assets  74.8	 23.1	 97.9 4.2 79.0 83.2
Present value of scheme liabilities  (62.3)	 (26.6)	 (88.9) (3.3) (89.9) (93.2)
Funded status  12.5	 (3.5)	 9.0 0.9 (10.9) (10.0)     
Disallowed assets  (0.2)	 (0.7)	 (0.9) (0.4) – (0.4)
Surplus / (deficit) in the schemes  12.3	 (4.2)	 8.1 0.5 (10.9) (10.4)
There are minor variations in the assumptions used by the different actuaries employed to value the separate schemes. The 
expected long term rates of return on gilts and bonds are estimated at 4.9% per annum (2006, 4.8%) and those for equities 
at 8.4% per annum (2006, 7.8%). The returns on the annuities match the relevant liabilities.
Asset return assumptions have been derived by considering best estimates for the expected long term real rates of return 
from the main asset classes. For gilts and corporate bonds, a return in line with the returns available in the markets for these 
assets has been assumed. For equities, a higher rate of return than for bond assets has been assumed, to reflect the greater 
returns anticipated over the long term from a mixture of UK and overseas equities.
The mortality assumption used at the year end is based on 92 series tables with an allowance for improvements in line with 
the medium cohort based on each member’s year of birth.
The expected lifetime of a participant who is age 65 and the expected lifetime of a participant who will be age 65 in 15 years 
are shown in years below based on the above mortality tables:
Age     Males  Females
65      21.9  24.8
65 in 15 years     22.8  25.6
For IAS 19 the schemes’ liabilities have been calculated under the projected unit method and the main financial assumptions 
were inflation of 3.4% per annum (2006, 3.0%), salary increases of 4.4% per annum (2006, 4.0%) and a discount rate for 
liabilities of 5.7% per annum (2006, 5.1%). The only variation to these assumptions was the discount rate used to calculate 
the liabilities of the Laird Technologies plan, which was 4.9% per annum (2006, 6.0%). 92    The Laird Group PLC
note
	 36	 Retirement	benefit	obligations	(continued)
Analysis	of	the	defined	benefit	cost	for	the	year	ended	31	December:
    	 	 2007 2006
     	 £m £m
Current service cost    	 1.1 1.9
Past service cost    	 – –
Gain on settlements or curtailments    	 (0.8) (0.4)
Total charge to operating profit    	 0.3 1.5
 
Expected return on pension investments   	 (5.5) (4.9)
Interest on pension liabilities    	 4.7 4.4
Finance income relating to pensions   	 	 (0.8) (0.5)
Total charge to income statement before deduction of tax  	 (0.5) 1.0
The charge in respect of defined contribution plans was £1.5m during 2007 (2006, £2.5m).
Changes	in	the	present	value	of	defined	benefit	pension	obligations	are	analysed	as	follows:
  	 2007	  2006
  	 Funded		 Un-funded   Funded Un-funded
  Total	 plans		 plans Total plans plans
                                                        £m	 																		£m	 																		£m                   £m                   £m £m
As at 1 January 93.2	 88.8	 4.4 94.6 90.6 4.0
 Current service cost 1.1	 0.7	 0.4 1.9 1.5 0.4
 Past service cost – – – – – –
 Interest cost 4.7	 4.5	 0.2 4.4 4.2 0.2
 Employee contributions 0.1	 0.1	 – 0.2 0.2 –
 Actuarial gains and losses (3.7)	 (3.7)	 – (3.0) (3.2) 0.2
 Benefits paid (4.6)	 (3.9)	 (0.7) (3.8) (3.8) –
 Settlement / curtailment gain (0.8)	 (0.6)	 (0.2) (0.4) – (0.4)
 Acquisition / divestiture (1.1)	 (1.1)	 – – – –
 Foreign currency differences –	 –	 – (0.7) (0.7) –
As at 31 December 88.9	 84.8	 4.1 93.2 88.8 4.4
Changes	in	the	fair	value	of	the	plan	assets	are	analysed	as	follows:
      2007 2006
      £m £m
As at 1 January     83.2 78.2
 Employer contributions     14.1 3.2
 Employee contributions     0.1 0.2
 Benefits paid     (3.9) (3.8)
 Expected return on assets     5.5 4.9
 Asset gain / (loss)     (0.1) 1.2
 Acquisition / divestiture     (1.0) –
 Foreign currency differences     – (0.7)
As at 31 December     97.9 83.2
Employer contributions of £14.1m during the year include £13.6m of additional payments made over and above regular 
contributions.
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007 The Laird Group PLC    93
	 36	 Retirement	benefit	obligations	(continued)
History	of	experience	gains	and	losses:
   2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
   £m £m £m £m £m
 
Fair value of plan assets  97.9 83.2 78.2 64.6 61.2
Present value of defined benefit obligation (88.9) (93.2) (94.6) (79.4) (71.1)
Funded status  9.0 (10.0) (16.4) (14.8) (9.9)
Disallowed assets  (0.9) (0.4) – – –
Surplus / (deficit) in the schemes  8.1 (10.4) (16.4) (14.8) (9.9)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities (0.1) – 1.9 – (0.8)
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets (0.1) 1.2 4.5 (0.1) 0.9
 
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense 
is a loss of £6.3m (2006, £9.3m loss) since 1 January 2004. The directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial 
gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense from the date 
of inception of the company schemes to 31 December 2003.
The Group estimates that the total value of contributions to defined benefit plans will be £1.1m in 2008, which is expected to 
include £0.7m of additional contributions to be paid over and above regular contributions.
Within Sweden, the Group operates a plan, included within a multi-employer plan, for its employees which is insured with 
Alecta. This scheme is a defined benefit plan, but Alecta is currently unable to provide sufficient information to report the 
Group’s proportional share of the defined benefit commitments and the assets under management and expenses associated 
with the plan. Consequently, Alecta cannot provide the information regarding the Group’s proportional share of the surplus or 
deficit in the plan. As a result the scheme is reported as if it were a defined contribution plan, although it is actually a defined 
benefit plan.
  94    The Laird Group PLC
The following were the principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2007. All subsidiary undertakings are wholly 
owned and operate principally in the country of incorporation or registration unless stated otherwise. The list excludes (under 
the provisions of section 231 of the Companies Act 1985) certain subsidiary undertakings which do not materially affect 
the accounts.
  Country of incorporation
Name of company or registration Nature of business
 
Laird	Technologies 
AeroComm, Inc.* USA Wireless systems
Antenex, Inc.* USA Antennae products
Cateron Technology Company Limited Taiwan EMI and thermal products
Centurion Electronics (Shanghai) Limited* China Antennae products
Centurion Wireless Technologies, Inc* USA Antennae products
Centurion Wireless Components (M) SDN. BHD* Malaysia Antennae products
Cushcraft Holdings Corporation* USA Antennae products
Kunshan Cateron Electronics Co. Ltd* China EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies Antennagyarto KFT* Hungary Antennae products
Laird Technologies (Beijing) Co., Ltd.* China  Antennae and actuation  
products
Laird Technologies GmbH.* Rosenheim, Germany EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies GmbH.* Hildesheim, Germany Antennae products
Laird Technologies (Holdings) AB* Sweden Antennae products
Laird Technologies India Private Limited* India Antennae products
Laird Technologies Japan, Inc. * Japan Multiple products
Laird Technologies Korea Y.H.* Korea EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies MAP Co., Ltd. (formerly M2sys Co., Ltd)* Korea Actuation products
Laird Technologies S.A.S.* France EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies S. de R. L. de C. V.* Mexico Multiple products
Laird Technologies (SEA) PTE Limited* Singapore Multiple products
Laird Technologies (Shanghai) Limited* China EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies (Shenzhen) Limited* China Multiple products
Laird Technologies S.R.O.* Czech Republic EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies Taiwan, Inc.* Taiwan Multiple products
R&F Products, Inc.* USA EMI and thermal products
RecepTec Corp.* USA Antennae products
Steward, Inc.* USA Signal integrity products
Steward (Foshan) Magnetic Materials Co., Ltd* China Signal integrity products
Supercool AB* Sweden Thermal products
Supercool Thermoelectrics* USA Thermal products
Tianjin Laird Technologies Limited* China EMI and thermal products
Thermagon, Inc* USA Thermal products
 
*Held by a subsidiary undertaking
 
Principal subsidiaries The Laird Group PLC    95   
Trading	results    2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
    £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 
– continuing operations    564.3 370.6 259.4 142.8 95.8
– discontinued operations    72.9 237.7 249.3 325.2 333.0
Total revenue    637.2 608.3 508.7 468.0 428.8
Operating profit 
– continuing operations     80.0 55.4 37.7 20.7 12.6
– discontinued operations    4.4 27.8 27.9 31.2 28.8
    84.4 83.2 65.6 51.9 41.4
Exceptional items    (11.0) – (15.5) – (5.9)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets    (10.5) (7.1) (4.4) (1.2) (10.6)
Profit / (loss) on disposal of businesses    85.3 (2.1) (7.8) 3.6 –
Finance costs (net) before exceptionals    (7.6) (9.9) (10.5) (5.6) (4.0)
Exceptional finance costs    (1.5) – – – –
Financial instruments – fair value adjustment    1.2 0.2 (1.1) – –
Profit before tax    140.3 64.3 26.3 48.7 20.9
Taxation    (12.6) (13.6) (6.1) (11.5) 2.9
Profit after tax    127.7 50.7 20.2 37.2 23.8
Underlying profit     76.8 73.3 55.1 46.4 37.4
Non-current assets    541.5 520.4 447.7 390.4 245.0
Other current assets    250.1 237.8 180.7 163.2 37.0
Net borrowings    85.4 109.1 148.1 118.6 60.1
Shareholders’ equity    448.5 409.2 284.3 260.2 193.8
 
Basic earnings per share     68.7p 26.8p 12.1p 24.0p 15.8p
Basic underlying earnings per share    34.9p 31.7p 27.3p 24.8p 20.4p
Dividends per share   	 61.5p 10.3p 9.56p 9.2p 8.6p
Dividend cover   	 1.1 2.6 1.3 2.6 1.9
This information is prepared under IFRS for 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 and UK GAAP for 2003.
Five year summary 96    The Laird Group PLC
Financial calendar      Dividend bank mandates 
31 December 2007  Financial year end    Should you wish dividends to be paid directly 
12 March 2008  Announcement of results   into a bank or building society account and 
9 May 2008  Annual General Meeting   notification to be sent to your shareholder register 
2 May 2008  Record date for final dividend  address, please contact the Company’s Registrar, 
6 June 2008  Payment of final dividend   Equiniti, for a dividend mandate form.  
July 2008  Announcement of half year results  
October 2008  Normal record date for interim dividend 
November 2008  Normal payment date for interim dividend  
31 December 2008 Financial year end 
 
Administrative enquiries      Advisers 
Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in  
The Laird Group PLC, such as the loss of a share    Stockbrokers 
certificate, dividend payments, or a change of    JPMorgan Cazenove Limited 
address should be directed, in the first instance, to   
the Registrar whose address is:     Financial advisers  
         N M Rothschild & Sons Limited 
Equiniti  
Aspect House       Principal bankers 
Spencer Road, Lancing,      HSBC Bank plc 
West Sussex BN99 6DA      The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
Telephone 0871 384 2068  
(calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from    Principal lawyers  
a BT landline. Other telephone providers’ costs may vary).  Ashurst 
Telephone (overseas) +44 121 415 7047    Pinsent Masons 
www.shareview.co.uk      Proskauer Rose LLP 
 
Correspondence should refer to The Laird Group   
Public Limited Company and state clearly the   
registered name and address of the shareholder.   
Please notify the Registrar promptly of any change  
of address.
Analysis of shareholders as at 31 December 2007
    Number  Total 
Size of shareholding   of holders % of total holding % of total
 
Up to 5,000 shares   3,208 85.2 2,775,277 1.6
5,001 to 50,000 shares   301 8.0 4,555,642 2.6
50,001 to 200,000 shares   113 3.0 12,306,955 6.9
Over 200,000 shares   144 3.8 157,624,374 88.9
 
Total    3,766 100.0 177,262,248 100.0
Shareholder information The Laird Group PLC    97   
THE LAIRD GROUP PLC
PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS
 Page
Statement of directors’ responsibilities  98
Independent auditors’ report  99
Parent company balance sheet 100
Notes to the financial statements of parent company 101 98    The Laird Group PLC
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the independent auditors set out on page 99, is 
made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the 
accounts.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Company for the financial year.
The directors consider that in compiling the accounts on pages 100 to 111, which have been prepared on a going concern basis, 
the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements 
and estimates and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy 
the financial position of the Company which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors, having prepared the accounts, note that the auditors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to take whatever steps 
and undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
in relation to the accounts The Laird Group PLC    99   
We have audited the parent company financial statements of The Laird Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 which 
comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 15. These parent company financial statements have been prepared under 
the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described 
as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of The Laird Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the 
parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the parent company 
Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific 
information that is cross referred from the operating review section of the Directors’ report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company 
financial statements. The other information comprises only the Directors’ report, the unaudited part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report, the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s review, the Finance Director’s report, the Corporate social responsibility 
report and the Corporate governance report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any 
other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company 
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant 
estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order 
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or 
error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•	 	 the	 par ent	 company	 financial	 statements	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view ,	 in	 accor dance	 with	 United	 Kingdom	 Generally	 Accepted	
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2007; 
•	 	 	 the	 par ent	 company	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 part	 of	 the	 Dir ectors’	 r emuneration	 r eport	 to	 be	 audited	 have	 been	 pr operly	
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
•	 	 the	 information	 given	 in	 the	 Dir ectors’	 r eport	 is	 consistent	 with	 the	 par ent	 company	 financial	 statements.
Ernst & Young LLP 
Registered auditor  
London 
11 March 2008
Notes:  
1.  The maintenance and integrity of The Laird Group PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve 
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since  
they were initially presented on the web site.
2.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of The Laird Group PLC 100    The Laird Group PLC
      2007 2006 
     Note £m £m
Fixed assets 
Tangible assets    2 0.4 0.3
Investments    3 770.1 417.6
      770.5 417.9
Current assets 
Debtors     4 23.5 121.8
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year   5 179.7 222.9
Cash at bank     5.3 3.5
      208.5 348.2
 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
Borrowings     6 (6.3) (0.2)
Other     8 (10.8) (18.2)
      (17.1) (18.4)
Net current assets      191.4 329.8
Total assets less current liabilities     961.9 747.7
 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 
Borrowings     6 (104.1) (115.2)
Other     8 (356.4) (210.5)
Pension deficit    10 (4.2) (9.5)
Provisions      (0.3) –
      496.9 412.5
Capital and reserves 
Ordinary share capital    11 49.8 49.5
Share premium account    12 268.9 266.0
Special reserve    12 55.5 55.5
Retained earnings    12 124.6 44.2
Treasury shares    12 (1.9) (2.7)
Equity shareholders’ funds     496.9 412.5
 
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
 P J HILL 
J C SILVER 
Directors
Parent company balance sheet
as at 31 December 2007 The Laird Group PLC    101   
Financial statements of parent company
 1. Accounting policies
  Basis of preparation     
The accounts of The Laird Group PLC have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with UK 
accounting principles (including applicable accounting standards). The financial statements present information about the 
Company as an individual undertaking and not about the Group.
  Profit and loss
As permitted by the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has not presented its own profit 
and loss account. 
  Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation of fixed assets evenly over their expected useful lives, principally 
as follows:
Computer equipment   5 years or less
Motor vehicles    4 years
Other plant and machinery   13 years or less
A proportion of one year’s depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
  Pensions
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to the operating profit or loss 
in the year. The full cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service and gains and losses arising on 
unanticipated settlements or curtailments are also charged to the operating profit or loss in the year. The expected return 
on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the market value of scheme assets at the start of the year and the 
expected increase in liabilities of the schemes are included within other finance (charges)/income. Differences between actual 
and expected returns on assets during the year are recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses in the year 
together with differences from changes in assumptions. The deficit on defined benefit pension schemes, net of deferred tax, 
is reported on the balance sheet as the pension liability. The accounts include pension schemes where the parent company 
is the principal employer.
  Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but which have not reversed at the balance 
sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to 
pay less, or to receive more tax subject to the following:
(a)  Deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary assets such as property unless a binding sale 
agreement exists at the balance sheet date. Where rollover relief is available on an asset then deferred tax is not 
recognised.
(b)  Deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries unless dividends have been accrued as receivable 
or there is a binding agreement to distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date.
(c)  Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Assets are regarded as 
recoverable when it is regarded as more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future 
reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
  Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets 
and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
  Financial assets 
Debtors are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Where the time 
value of money is material, debtors are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the 
Company will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as 
being remote. The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is 
impaired. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired. 
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment. Trade and other receivables 
are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
  Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, inclusive of any transaction costs. Measurement after initial 
recognition is at amortised cost, with the changes in the carrying amount being taken through the profit and loss account.
Notes to the financial statements  
of parent company
for the year ended 31 December 2007 102    The Laird Group PLC
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 1. Accounting policies (continued)
 Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in 
finance income and finance expense.
  Derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as currency swap contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge 
its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. From 1 January 2005, such derivative financial 
instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when 
the fair value is negative. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with 
similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar 
instruments.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken in 
the profit and loss account. 
  Share based payments
In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 20, the expense recognised in the Company profit and loss account 
relates to equity settled grants made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on 1 January 2005.
The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) shares awarded is estimated at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo 
simulation technique, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including 
market based performance conditions. The fair value of share options granted is estimated at the date of grant using a 
binomial lattice method of calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. 
Non-market company performance conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
For grants that ultimately do not vest, charges previously made are reversed except that an expense is recognised for 
awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not 
the market condition is satisfied, provided all the other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as 
vesting as described above. 
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and loss account, 
with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not 
been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share 
based payment, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of 
cancellation or settlement, and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately. 
 2. Tangible assets
The fixed assets of the Company were acquired at a cost of £0.8m (2006, £0.7m) and have accumulated depreciation of 
£0.4m (2006, £0.4m) charged against them. There were additions of £0.3m and net disposals of £0.1m during the year and 
depreciation in the year was £0.1m.
 3. Investments in subsidiaries
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
Shares in subsidiaries at cost     788.1 464.1
Less provisions for diminution in value     (18.0) (46.5)
      770.1 417.6
Principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2007 are disclosed in the The Laird Group  PLC consolidated financial 
statements on page 94.
Notes to the financial statements  
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007 The Laird Group PLC    103   
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 3. Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
The movement in the net book value of investments in subsidiaries during the year was as follows:
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
At 1 January     417.6 420.2
Additions     362.9 –
Disposals     (10.4) –
Provision for diminution in value     – (2.6)
At 31 December     770.1 417.6
The addition during the year of £362.9m (2006, £nil) is the investment in Laird Overseas Holdings  Limited which arose as part 
of a restructuring of the Company’s investment in subsidiary  undertakings.
 4. Debtors  
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings    21.9 116.9
Prepayments and accrued income     0.5 1.0
Taxation     1.1 3.9
      23.5 121.8
 5. Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings    166.9 204.8
Derivative financial instruments     11.3 17.0
Deferred tax asset     1.5 1.1
      179.7 222.9
 6. Borrowings
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
Due within one year: 
US Private Placement loans 2008     6.3 –
Bank overdrafts     – 0.2
      6.3 0.2
Due after more than one year: 
US Private Placement loans 2012     5.0 –
US Private Placement loans 2014/2016    69.9 71.0
Other term loans     29.2 44.2
      104.1 115.2
Total borrowings     110.4 115.4 104    The Laird Group PLC
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 6. Borrowings (continued)
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
Borrowings are repayable as follows: 
Within one year 
 Bank overdraft     – 0.2
 Other     6.3 –
Between two and five years 
 Bank     34.2 44.2
In five years or more 
 Other     69.9 71.0
Total borrowings     110.4 115.4
Notes
(a) Company borrowings are unsecured. 
(b)   US Private Placement loans, arising from private placements of debt with US insurance companies, of $22.5m (2006, $nil) 
are repayable between 2008 and 2012 at an average fixed rate of interest of 7.33% and $140.0m (2006, $140m) are 
repayable between 2014 and 2016 at an average fixed rate of interest of 5.64%.
(c) The Company had committed bilateral bank loan facilities of £195m which were underwritten for in excess of four years. 
 7. Financial instruments
For 2007, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” and has 
not disclosed information required by that standard as the Group’s consolidated financial statements, in which the Company 
is included, provide equivalent disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”.
 8. Other creditors
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
Due within one year: 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings    5.2 –
Social security costs     – 0.2
Other creditors     – 1.2
Accruals and deferred income     5.6 4.0
Derivative financial instruments     – 12.8
      10.8 18.2
Due after more than one year: 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings    355.5 209.4
Taxation     0.9 1.1
      356.4 210.5
 9. Deferred taxation
The main components of deferred tax included within non current assets are as follows: 
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
Chargeable gains     (0.7) (0.7)
Other timing differences     2.2 1.8
      1.5 1.1
Movements during the year were: 
       £m
At 1 January 2007       1.1
Provided in the year      0.4
Released in the year      –
At 31 December 2007      1.5
Change in UK Corporation tax rate
The UK Corporation tax rate will decrease from 30% to 28% from 1 April 2008. The deferred tax balance has been adjusted 
in the current year to reflect this change.
Notes to the financial statements  
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007 The Laird Group PLC    105   
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 10. Pension schemes
The Company operates five defined benefit schemes.
15 employees (2006, 60) are members of these defined benefit schemes and these schemes have approximately 1,700 
(2006, 1,600) deferred and current pensioners. The employer contributions made to these schemes during the year was 
£14.0m (2006, £3.0m). 
The total assessed value of the schemes’ assets at 31 December 2007 at their market value is estimated at £93.9m (2006, 
£72.0m) and the liabilities estimated at £85.3m (2006, £81.5m). 
The market value of the schemes’ assets, the present value of the schemes’ liabilities and the net pension liability under 
FRS 17 at 31 December were as follows:
       
      Total Total
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
Annuities     8.8 10.3
Equities     41.2 41.0
Gilts and bonds     40.8 20.7
Other including cash     3.1 –
Total market value of assets     93.9 72.0
Present value of scheme liabilities     (85.3) (81.5)
Funded status     8.6 (9.5)
Disallowed assets     (12.8) –
Deficit in the schemes     (4.2) (9.5)
There are minor variations in the assumptions used by the different actuaries employed to value the separate schemes. The 
expected long term rates of return on gilts and bonds are estimated at 4.9% per annum (2006, 4.8%) and those for equities 
at 8.4% per annum (2006, 7.8%). The returns on the annuities match the relevant liabilities.
Asset return assumptions have been derived by considering best estimates for the expected long term real rates of return 
from the main asset classes. For gilts and corporate bonds, a return in line with the returns available in the markets for these 
assets has been assumed. For equities, a higher rate of return than for bond assets has been assumed, to reflect the greater 
returns anticipated over the long term from a mixture of UK and overseas equities.
The mortality assumption used at the year end is based on 92 series tables with an allowance for improvements in line with 
the medium cohort based on each member’s year of birth.
For FRS 17 the schemes’ liabilities have been calculated under the projected unit method and the main financial assumptions 
were inflation of 3.4% per annum (2006, 3.0%), salary increases of 4.4% per annum (2006, 4.0%) and a discount rate for 
liabilities of 5.7% per annum (2006, 5.1%).
Analysis of the defined benefit cost for the year ended 31 December:
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
Current service cost     1.1 1.8
Past service cost     – –
Gain on settlements or curtailments      (0.8) (0.4)
Total charge to operating profit     0.3 1.4
Expected return on pension investments    (5.1) (4.3)
Interest on pension liabilities     4.4 3.8
Finance income relating to pensions     (0.7) (0.5)
 
Total (credit) / charge to profit and loss account before deduction of tax   (0.4) 0.9 106    The Laird Group PLC
 10. Pension schemes (continued)
Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows:   
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
As at 1 January     81.5 81.6
 Current service cost     1.1 1.8
 Past service cost     – –
 Interest cost     4.4 3.8
 Employee contributions     0.1 0.2
 Actuarial gains and losses     (3.8) (2.3)
 Benefits paid     (3.9) (3.2)
 Settlement / curtailment gain     (0.8) (0.4)
 Foreign currency differences     – –
 Acquisition     6.7 –
As at 31 December     85.3 81.5
The defined benefit obligation comprises £4.1m (2006, £4.4m) arising from an unfunded plan, and £81.2m (2006, £77.1m) 
from plans that are wholly or partly funded.
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are analysed as follows:
      2007 2006
      £m £m
 
As at 1 January     72.0 66.8
 Employer contributions     14.0 3.0
 Employee contributions     0.1 0.2
 Benefits paid     (3.2) (3.2)
 Expected return on assets     5.1 4.3
 Asset gain / (loss)     0.2 0.9
 Acquisition     5.7 –
As at 31 December     93.9 72.0
Employer contributions of £14.0m during the year include £13.6m of additional payments made over and above regular 
contributions.
The acquisition above arises as the Company became the principal employer of the Crompton Limited Pension Scheme and 
the Linear Limited Retirement Benefits Scheme on 27 April 2007.
History of experience gains and losses:
   2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
   £m £m £m £m £m
 
Fair value of plan assets  93.9 72.0 66.8 14.8 14.9
Present value of defined benefit obligation (85.3) (81.5) (81.6) (20.6) (18.1)
Funded status  8.6 (9.5) (14.8) (5.8) (3.2)
Disallowed assets  (12.8) – – – –
Deficit in the scheme  (4.2) (9.5) (14.8) (5.8) (3.2)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities (0.1) – 0.5 0.5 0.3
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 0.2 0.9 1.9 (0.8) (1.7)
The estimated total value of contributions to defined benefit plans will be £1.1m in 2008, which is expected to include £0.7m 
of additional contributions to be paid over and above regular contributions.
Notes to the financial statements  
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007 The Laird Group PLC    107   
 11. Authorised and issued share capital
      2007 2006
Authorised     £m £m
 
248,888,888 (2006, 280,000,000) ordinary shares of 28.125p each (2006, 25p each)  70.0 70.0
 
    2007  2006
Issued and fully paid   Shares £m Shares £m
 
Ordinary shares of 28.125p each (2006, 25p each) 
At 1 January   198,174,845 49.5 159,780,676 40.0
Issued by Right   – – 37,602,512 9.4
Issued for deferred consideration   – – 323,667 –
Issued for exercise of share options   1,245,176 0.3 467,990 0.1
8 for 9 share consolidation   (22,157,773) – – –
At 31 December   177,262,248 49.8 198,174,845 49.5
On 11 June 2007 a share consolidation took place whereby every 9 existing issued and unissued ordinary shares of 25p 
each were consolidated into 8 new ordinary shares of 28.125p each. During the year 218,464 ordinary shares were issued 
under the Company’s 1994 executive share option scheme for a consideration of £680,933 and 1,026,712 ordinary shares 
were issued under the Company’s 2003 executive share option scheme for a consideration of £2,522,583.
177,262,248 ordinary shares of 28.125p each were in issue at the year end (2006, 198,174,845 shares of 25p each).
At 31 December 2007, options to subscribe for 2,272,388 ordinary shares at prices between 161p and 587.5p were 
outstanding under the Company’s executive share option schemes. Options outstanding under the schemes are held by 
29 individuals and are exercisable at various times up to 15 May 2017. No further options have been granted since the 
year end.
 12. Shareholders’ funds
     Profit  Investment 
  Share  Share  Special  and loss  in own
  capital premium reserve account shares Total
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
 
At 1 January 2006 40.0 155.5 55.5 36.7 (2.7) 285.0
Total recognised gains and  
 losses – – – 26.0 – 26.0
Issue of shares – Rights Issue 9.4 108.2 – – – 117.6
Exercise of share options  0.1 0.9 – – – 1.0
Issue of shares on acquisition of  
 businesses – 1.4 – – – 1.4
Share based payments – – – 1.6 – 1.6
Purchase of treasury shares – – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Grant of LTIPs – – – (0.7) 0.7 –
Dividends paid – – – (19.4) – (19.4)
At 1 January 2007 49.5 266.0 55.5 44.2 (2.7) 412.5
Total recognised gains and  
 losses – – – 199.2 – 199.2
Exercise of share options  0.3 2.9 – – – 3.2
Share based payments – – – 2.0 – 2.0
Vesting of LTIPs – – – (0.8) 0.8 –
Dividends paid – – – (120.0) – (120.0)
At 31 December 2007 49.8 268.9 55.5 124.6 (1.9) 496.9
The investment in own shares are those held by the Laird Group 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“ESOP”) as described on 
page 50 of the Directors’ remuneration report. At 31 December 2007 the ESOP held 610,087 shares (2006, 996,118 shares) 
of which 579,048 relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan. The shares held by the ESOP had a total market value at that date 
of £3.5m (2006, £4.1m).
A profit after taxation of £207.8m (2006, £22.9m) has been credited to the profit and loss account brought forward of the 
Company after crediting exchange gains of £2.9m (2006, £4.7m) and crediting dividends from subsidiary undertakings of 
£239.0m (2006, £40.2m). Movements on equity not recognised in the profit and loss account were a loss of £8.6m (2006, 
gain of £3.1m). The special reserve of £55.5m was created by a transfer from the share premium account under High Court 
Sanction in December 1989. No profit and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by section 230 of the 
Companies Act 1985. 108    The Laird Group PLC
Notes to the financial statements  
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
 13. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2007 the Company had contingent liabilities as follows:
(a) guarantees in respect of US Private Placement loans of £nil (2006, £25.5m); and
(b) guarantees relating to the performance of contracts of subsidiary undertakings.
There are legal claims against the Company but none where the Board takes the view that it is likely that damages will be 
awarded against the Group which would have a materially adverse effect on its financial position. 
 14.  Share based payments
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 45 to 51, sets out the general terms and conditions including vesting 
requirements for the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the 1994 Share Option Scheme and the 2003 Executive Share 
Option Plans. Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) vest three years after they have been awarded to the 
employee, provided the employee is still employed by the Group. 
All share based payments are equity settled. An expense of £2.0m was recognised in the year (2006, £1.6m) before 
employer’s national insurance and was based on the fair value of the LTIP shares awarded, the RSP shares awarded and the 
share options granted.
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, and those granted during the year.
      2007 2006
      Number Number
Granted prior to 1 January     1,900,433 1,502,433
Lapsed prior to 1 January     (605,605) –
Vested and exercised prior to 1 January    (257,706) –
Outstanding as at 1 January     1,037,122 1,502,433
Granted during the year     266,750 398,000
Lapsed during the year     – (605,605)
Vested and exercised during the year     (255,583) (257,706)
Outstanding as at 31 December     1,048,289 1,037,122
The following table shows the number of RSP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, and those granted during the year.
      2007 2006
      Number Number
Outstanding as at 1 January     202,400 –
Granted during the year     163,120 204,900
Lapsed during the year     (16,920) (2,500)
Vested and exercised during the year     (51,500) –
Outstanding as at 31 December     297,100 202,400 The Laird Group PLC    109   
 14. Share based payments (continued)
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options 
issued under the 1994 Share Option Scheme.
     2007  2006
    2007 WAEP 2006 WAEP
    Number (p) Number (p)
Outstanding as at 1 January
 Option prices 132-236p   290,443 159 290,443 158
 Option prices 237-330p   121,958 293 196,193 291
 Option prices 331-431p   114,534 403 241,796 399
    526,935 243 728,432 274
Exercised
 Option prices 132-236p   (54,086) 150 – –
 Option prices 237-330p   (49,844) 278 (74,235) 289
  Option prices 331-431p   (114,534) 403 (58,329) 375
Expired   – – (26,513) 431
Forfeited   – – (42,420) 402
    308,471 194 526,935 243
Outstanding as at 31 December
 Option prices 132-236p   236,357 161 290,443 159
 Option prices 237-330p   72,114 302 121,958 293
 Option prices 331-431p   – – 114,534 403
    308,471 194 526,935 243
Exercisable at 31 December   308,471 194 526,935 243
As at 1 January, options over 236,357 shares (2006, 236,357 shares) and at 31 December options over 236,357 shares 
(2006, 236,357 shares) were issued and a charge recognised in accordance with FRS 20 and resulted in a charge against 
profits. The balance of the share options were granted prior to 7 November 2002 and do not result in a charge against profits 
in accordance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 20. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the 
options exercised was 542p (2006, 383p). For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2007, the weighted average 
remaining contractual life is 4.4 years (2006, 4.0 years).  110    The Laird Group PLC
 14. Share based payments (continued)
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options 
issued under the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan.
     2007  2006
    2007 WAEP 2006 WAEP
    Number (p) Number (p)
Outstanding as at 1 January
 Option prices 132-236p   676,602 195 962,213 195
 Option prices 237-323p   1,723,883 299 1,994,497 298
 Option prices 324-458p   334,000 458 – –
 Option prices 459-588p   – – – –
    2,734,485 293 2,956,710 265
Issued   266,750 588 398,000 458
Exercised
 Option prices 132-236p   (439,811) 195 (285,611) 195
 Option prices 237-323p   (586,901) 284 (49,815) 269
  Option prices 324-458p   – – – –
 Option prices 459-588p   – – – –
Forfeited   (10,606) 323 (284,799) 332
    1,963,917 357 2,734,485 293
Outstanding as at 31 December
 Option prices 132-236p   236,791 195 676,602 195
 Option prices 237-323p   1,126,376 307 1,723,883 299
 Option prices 324-458p   334,000 458 334,000 458
 Option prices 459-588p   266,750 588 – –
    1,963,917 357 2,734,485 293
Exercisable at 31 December   579,975 240 676,602 195
All options in the table above were recognised in accordance with FRS 20 as noted above. The weighted average share 
price at the date of exercise for the options exercised was 571p (2006, 380p). For the share options outstanding at 
31 December 2007, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 7.3 years (2006, 7.6 years). 85,901 options (2006, 
149,532) in the price range 132p to 236p, 404,589 options (2006, 504,282) in the price range 237p to 323p, 334,000 
options (2006, 334,000) in the price range 324p to 458p and 266,750 (2006, nil) in the price range 459p to 588p are subject 
to the higher performance targets set out in the table on page 49 of the Directors’ remuneration report.
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including the market based performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. The non-market company performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
The weighted average fair value of LTIP awards during the year was 439p (2006, 253p), of RSP awards during the year was 
545p (2006, 427p) and of share options granted during the year was 162p (2006, 119p).
Notes to the financial statements  
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007 The Laird Group PLC    111   
 14. Share based payments (continued)
The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2007.
    LTIP LTIP
    & RSP & RSP ESOP ESOP
    2007 2006 2007 2006
Dividend Yield (%)   2.5 2.75 2.5 2.75
Expected Share Price volatility (%)   25 25 25 25
Expected comparator volatility (%)   20 30 n/a n/a
Risk-free interest rate (%)   n/a n/a 5.3 4.7
Expected life of LTIP/option (years)   3.0 3.0 7.0 7.0
Weighted average share price (p)   587.3 460.3 587.5 460.3
The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise 
patterns that may occur. 
The expected volatility of the LTIP and RSP shares is based on historical volatility; average of monthly activity over the last 
three years. Expected volatility reflects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may 
not necessarily prove to be the actual outcome. Dividends are not payable on LTIP or RSP shares prior to vesting and this is 
taken into account in calculating the fair value. 
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting.
 15. Auditors’ remuneration
The Company paid £26,000 (2006, £25,000) to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Company.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the 
individual accounts of The Laird Group PLC because group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose 
such fees on a consolidated basis. 112    The Laird Group PLC
       Definition
Revenue from acquisitions (£m)  Prior year revenue from acquisitions made in the current year and prior year revenue 
for the period not in Laird ownership for acquisitions made in the prior year.
Organic revenue growth (%)   Current year continuing revenue divided by prior year continuing revenue. Prior year 
continuing revenue is adjusted by adding in revenue from acquisitions (as per above), 
to provide a meaningful comparison year on year.
LT expenditure on R&D as  Laird Technologies expenditure on research and development as a % of Laird  
a % of sales    Technologies revenue
Return on capital employed (%)  Underlying profit before interest and tax expressed as a % of the average capital 
employed for the Group over the year
Greenhouse gas emissions   Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated by applying specific factors to power 
(kg/£million of revenue)   consumption, which is then expressed as a % of revenue
Waste to landfill sites   Total waste to landfill sites expressed as a % of revenue 
(kg/£million of revenue)
Energy consumption   Total energy consumption for the Group in KwH expressed as a % of revenue 
(KwH/£million of revenue)
Underlying earnings  Underlying profit before tax less the underlying tax charge
Underlying EPS (pence)   Underlying earnings divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding 
during the year
Underlying profit before tax (£m)  Profit before tax excluding the effect of exceptional items, amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or 
loss on disposal of businesses and the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial 
instruments
Underlying profit before   The net interest charge excluding the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial 
interest and tax (£m)   instruments per the income statement is added back to underlying profit before tax
Underlying operating profit   Underlying profit before interest and tax is expressed as a % of total revenue 
margin (%)
Underlying tax charge   The tax charge per the income statement is adjusted to exclude the effect of 
discontinued operations, exceptional items and deferred tax on acquired goodwill and 
intangible assets.
Effective tax rate (%)  The underlying tax charge expressed as a % of underlying profit before tax
Group interest cover   The ratio of underlying profit before interest and tax to the annual interest charge within 
the income statement
Operating cash conversion (%)  Operating cash flow expressed as a % of underlying profit before tax plus the interest 
charge per the income statement
Net debt: EBITDA    The ratio of Group net debt to underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation   Contents
  01  Financial highlights
  03   Chairman’s statement
  04  Chief Executive’s review
  28  Finance Director’s report
  32  Board of Directors
  34  Directors’ report
  38  Corporate governance report
  41  Corporate social responsibility
  45  Directors’ remuneration report
  52  Statement of directors’ responsibilities
  53  Independent auditors’ report – Group IFRS
  54  Group income statement
  55  Statement of recognised income and expense
  56  Group balance sheet
  57  Group cash flow statement
  58  Notes to the financial statements
  58  Accounting policies
  94  Principal subsidiaries
  95  Five year summary
  96  Shareholder information
  97  Parent company accounts
  98  Statement of directors’ responsibilities
  99  Independent auditors’ report – Company UK GAAP
100  Parent company balance sheet
101  Notes to the financial statements of parent company
Designed and produced by Appetite • Illustrator Paul Wearing. Printed by royle print, a Carbon Neutral printing company, on Revive uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made   from  post-consumer collected waste. The printer and paper supplier are both accredited to ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard and both are FSC certified. The Laird Group PLC
100 Pall Mall
London SW1Y 5NQ
020 7468 4040
www.laird-plc.com
