 Technology for a connected world
Annual Report and 
Accounts 2008
Value through Innovation  Contents
 01 Financial highlights
 03 Chairman’s statement
 04 Chief Executive’s review
 22 Finance Director’s report
 26 Board of Directors
 28 Directors’ report
 32 Corporate governance report
 35 Corporate social responsibility
 39 Directors’ remuneration report
 47 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
 48 Independent auditor’s report – Group IFRS
 49 Group income statement
 50 Statement of recognised income and expense
 51 Group balance sheet
 52 Group cash ﬂ ow statement
 53 Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
 53 Accounting policies
 87 Principal subsidiaries
 88 Five year summary
 89 Shareholder information
 90 Parent company accounts
 91 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
 92 Independent auditor’s report – Company UK GAAP
 93 Parent company balance sheet
 94 Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements of parent company Laird PLC    01   
Financial highlights
 Explanatory notes:
(i)  Laird uses underlying results as key performance indicators. Underlying proﬁ t before tax and underlying earnings per share 
are stated before exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible 
assets and goodwill, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses and the impact arising from the fair valuing of ﬁ nancial 
instruments. The narrative that follows is based on underlying operating proﬁ t, underlying proﬁ t before tax and underlying 
earnings per share, as the directors believe that these provide a more consistent measure of operating performance.
(ii)  Excludes a special dividend of 50p per share paid in June 2007.
*  The weighted average number of shares used to calculate earnings per share was 177.2 million in 2008 and 185.9 million 
in 2007, following the 8 for 9 share consolidation on 11 June 2007.
The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 contains the Directors’ report on 
pages 3-46.
 2008 2007
 £m £m
Revenue from continuing operations 635.3 564.3  + 13%
Underlying proﬁ t before tax from 
continuing operations
(i)
 60.6 72.4  – 16%
Proﬁ t before tax from continuing operations 26.5 51.5 – 49%
Net borrowings 139.5 85.4 
Shareholders’ funds 585.3 448.5  
 p/share* p/share*
Underlying earnings from 
continuing operations
(i)
 27.4 33.1  – 17%
Basic earnings from continuing operations 8.1 21.4  – 62%
Dividend
(ii)
 11.88 11.5  +3%  Laird PLC    03   
Strategy
Over recent years Laird has been transformed 
from a diversiﬁ ed industrial group to a focused 
electronics and technology company. We hold, or 
aim to hold, leading positions in specialist markets 
with long term growth characteristics. We possess 
a broad set of complementary proprietary products, 
obtaining a competitive edge through technology and 
customer service allied to a well established low cost 
manufacturing base.
Dividend 
The Board’s policy is to increase returns to 
shareholders progressively over time, reﬂ ecting both 
the underlying proﬁ tability and the cash requirements 
of the business. In line with this policy, and 
notwithstanding the challenging macroeconomic 
environment, the Board is recommending a 
maintained ﬁ nal dividend of 7.88 pence per share. 
This represents a total dividend for the year of 
11.88 pence per share, an increase of 3% compared 
with the 11.5 pence per share for 2007. In addition, 
a special dividend of 50 pence per share was paid in 
June 2007.
Corporate and Social Responsibility
As a member of the FTSE4Good index, we recognise 
the fundamental importance of sustainability 
and sound ethical behaviour in all activities. We 
are committed to a programme of continuous 
improvement in all areas of corporate responsibility 
and our efforts are delivering demonstrable results. 
Further details of the Group’s corporate responsibility 
activities are available in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility section of this report.
Our Employees
We recognise that the expertise, initiative and 
dedication of our 10,000 plus global team are an 
essential component of our continued innovation 
and the results we have delivered this year. On behalf 
of the Board I would like to take this opportunity to 
express our gratitude to all our employees for their 
sustained efforts in challenging conditions and for all 
that they have already achieved for Laird.
Outlook
In the ﬁ rst half of 2008 revenue and proﬁ ts grew 
strongly. As the year progressed the extremely 
challenging economic environment affected all of 
our end-user markets and resulted in a marked 
fall off in demand for our products. While these 
macroeconomic conditions and de-stocking in the 
global supply chain have, as expected, continued 
into 2009, we have not seen any further deterioration 
in our revenues this year, although visibility remains 
limited. However, we still expect ﬁ rst half results to be 
considerably below the very strong levels seen in the 
ﬁ rst half of 2008.
We have a ﬂ exible business model with excellent 
customer relationships and a strong technology 
base. The long term fundamentals of our markets 
are attractive, our ﬁ nancial position is strong and we 
remain conﬁ dent about our strategy. We have taken 
swift action to position the business to weather the 
downturn, and will continue to ensure that Laird 
maintains its competitive position and emerges 
from this economic cycle well placed to capitalise 
on the opportunities provided by the evolving 
communications environment.
Chairman’s statement
“ The long term fundamentals 
of our markets are attractive, 
our ﬁ nancial position is 
strong and we remain 
conﬁ dent about our strategy.”
Nigel Keen 04    Laird PLC
Chief Executive’s review
Peter Hill
Overview
We design, develop and supply the technology that 
allows people, organisations and electronic devices 
to connect effectively and efﬁ ciently, locally and 
globally – key requirements in today’s increasingly 
connected world.
We are experiencing a time of sustained upheaval 
in the global economy, with its associated credit 
pressures and currency volatility, all of which are 
impacting our global electronics markets. We have 
repositioned our business to operate successfully in 
the changed economic and market environment, and 
have rapidly implemented an extensive programme 
of restructuring and cost reductions. We continue 
to invest in enhancing our technical and operational 
capabilities and increasing our customer penetration, 
while taking the necessary actions to maintain our 
competitive position.
The principal elements of our strategy remain in 
place, and we are conﬁ dent of our ability to withstand 
the downturn and emerge as a stronger company, 
continuing to be essential to our customers needs.
Results
We saw strong organic growth of 19% in the ﬁ rst 
half of the year, followed by some signs of softening 
in our markets during the third quarter. We then saw 
a sudden and dramatic reduction in our revenues 
during November, as the effects of the global 
macroeconomic downturn fully took hold in our 
markets and on our customers, accompanied by 
de-stocking in the global supply chain.
Revenue from continuing operations in 2008 was 
£635.3 million, up 13% (2007, £564.3 million). 
Organic revenue growth (one of our KPIs) at constant 
currency for the year was 0.5%. 
Underlying operating proﬁ t from continuing operations 
was £68.5 million in 2008, down 14% (2007, 
£80.0 million). Operating margin (one of our KPIs) in 
2008 was 10.8%, down from 14.2% in 2007, largely 
as a result of lower volumes in the second half.
Underlying proﬁ t before tax from continuing 
operations was £60.6 million in 2008, down 16% 
(2007, £72.4 million).  Laird PLC    05   
“ Laird is a leader in the design and supply of
customised, performance critical products and
systems for wireless and other advanced
electronic applications: Technology for a
connected world.”
We maintained our investment in plant and 
equipment, both to bring on stream our new facility 
in India and a second factory in Shenzhen, China, 
and in equipment both for customer awarded 
programmes and for new product development. 
Capital expenditure is expected to continue to be in 
excess of depreciation in 2009; we believe this will 
leave us well positioned for the future.
Net borrowings at 31 December 2008 were 
£139.5 million (2007, £85.4 million). Of this increase, 
£38.9 million resulted from the movement in 
exchange rates, mainly between the Pound Sterling 
and the US Dollar by year end, with much of the 
remainder due to maintaining our investment in the 
business.
Underlying earnings per share from continuing 
operations were 27.4 pence (2007, 33.1 pence), 
reﬂ ecting the lower proﬁ ts and, as expected, a higher 
tax rate.
We have closed or downsized a number of facilities, 
and reduced overall headcount by some 5,000 
between the beginning of October 2008 and January 
2009. These actions resulted in exceptional costs 
from continuing operations of £20.3 million in the 
year (2007, £11.9 million from continuing operations), 
of which £3.4 million is non-cash. Annualised savings 
from these actions are estimated to be in excess of 
£15 million, with the majority of the beneﬁ ts being 
seen in 2009, and the remainder in 2010.
Return on capital employed for the continuing 
business was 11.2% (2007, 16.0%), in excess of
our cost of capital.
Statutory proﬁ t before tax from continuing operations 
in 2008, after exceptional items, the amortisation 
of acquired intangibles, the gain or loss on the 
disposal of businesses and the fair valuing of ﬁ nancial 
instruments, was £26.5 million (2007, £51.5 million). 
Operating cash ﬂ ow after capital expenditure from 
continuing operations in 2008 was £48.1 million, 
up 23% (2007, £39.2 million). Our increased focus 
on cash generation resulted in cash conversion 
before capital expenditure increasing to 112% in 
2008 compared with 81% in 2007. After capital 
expenditure, cash conversion was 70% and 
49% respectively.  Strategic Development
Laird specialises in providing products and solutions 
for our customers that allow their own electronic 
devices and systems to operate efﬁ ciently and cost 
effectively. Higher speed, power and performance 
of electronic devices, as well as the increasing trend 
to wireless connectivity, drive an increasing need 
for our products and solutions. We have created a 
unique portfolio of complementary products serving 
markets where we hold leading positions. This allows 
us to increase the content of our offering in individual 
electronic devices and places us in a unique position 
to combine technologies into a single product or 
assembly. We are:
•  The global leader in the suppression or prevention 
of electromagnetic interference (“EMI”), allowing 
devices to function effectively.
•  The global leader in mobile handset antennae, 
modules and sub-assemblies, improving signal 
transmission and reception.
•  A leader in actuation mechanisms, improving 
the physical operation and versatility of 
mobile handsets.
•  A leader in thermal management products, 
removing heat from electronic devices and 
allowing them to function efﬁ ciently.
•  A leader in infrastructure, satellite radio and 
other wireless antennae systems and modules 
optimising voice, visual and data transmission
and storage.
In 2008 we reorganised our business into the 
following three divisions:
Handset Products, comprising our mobile antennae, 
handset board level EMI shielding, actuation 
mechanisms and associated handset components.
Performance Materials, comprising our non-handset 
EMI shields, signal integrity products and thermal 
management products.
Wireless Systems, comprising our infrastructure, 
telematics/satellite radio antennae, “machine to 
machine” wireless modules and other wireless 
antennae and systems.
Mobile phone handsets provide one of the world’s 
largest concentrations of electronics equipment, 
and comprise our largest market segment. Our 
Handset Products division brings together all of our 
products and technologies for mobile phones and 
handheld communication devices. This allows us 
to achieve greater focus on this important market, 
additional customer penetration, and to provide a 
fully integrated service to those customers.
Our Performance Materials division brings together 
our products which protect electronic devices and 
ensure that they operate effectively and efﬁ ciently. 
Our product groups in this division generally share 
common customers, allowing increased penetration 
and better account management.
Our Wireless Systems division brings together all our 
non handset antennae and wireless module product 
areas, allowing improved technology synergies and 
more cost effective technology management.
North America Asia
Europe RoW
BY DESTINATION
North America Asia
Europe
BY ORIGIN
2008 REVENUE
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT
Mobile Antennae 
Non-handset EMI / Signal Integrity
 
Other Antennae
Handset Metals
Telematics / Wireless Modules
Actuation Mechanisms
Thermal
Other
Laird PLC    07
BY MARKET SEGMENT
Handsets
IT / Datacomm
Transportation
Consumer
Industrial & Instrumentation
Other  We are a leading global supplier 
of customised, high performance 
products to the global mobile 
phone handset and handheld 
device manufacturers, enhancing 
connectivity, performance and 
physical functionality. 
The division’s products include 
cellular and complementary 
(Bluetooth, WiFi, FM, Zigbee and 
GPS) antennae, board level EMI 
shielding (“BLS”), environmental 
gaskets, mechanical actuation 
mechanisms such as sliders and 
camera shutters, audio modules, 
integrated sub-assemblies including 
SIM holders and contacts, and 
decorative metals.
Laird PLC    09
Handset Products
Division
OPERATING REVIEW 10    Laird PLC
Divisional revenues increased 15% in 2008 to 
£348.7 million, albeit this was enhanced by currency 
movements: organic revenue growth at constant 
currency for the division was 3% in the full year, a 
reduction from the 26% growth in the ﬁ rst half. The 
division accounted for 55% of Laird’s total revenues 
in the year. 
The majority, 57%, of divisional revenues in 2008 
were cellular antennae products, with 24% from 
actuation mechanisms and 19% from handset 
metals, including BLS.
Our customers now include all the “top 5” global 
Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”): Nokia, 
Samsung, Motorola, Sony Ericsson and LG, as well 
as Asian Original Design Manufacturers (“ODMs”) 
and OEMs such as Huawei and HTC, together with 
handheld device manufacturers such as RIM and 
Palm. We are expecting our ﬁ rst penetration on the 
third generation Apple iPhone in 2009.
Nokia, the world leader in mobile phones, is the 
largest customer for Laird and for the division. We 
supply our full range of products, including a high 
proportion of our antennae and BLS sales and 
virtually all of our actuation mechanisms sales. We 
enjoy high market shares across this product range, 
and saw good sales growth during 2008.
At Samsung, we saw our ﬁ rst signiﬁ cant shipments 
of BLS in 2008, and expect further penetration in 
2009. We have recently achieved design wins for 
mechanisms, for shipment in 2009, and are working 
with Samsung on antennae development. At LG, we 
achieved a large percentage increase in our antennae 
sales as we gained share, albeit from a relatively low 
base. We expect to begin to supply BLS to LG in 2009. 
Sales to Motorola of our antennae products, and 
particularly BLS, fell in the year, partly as a result 
of Motorola’s own lower handset shipments in the 
year. We gained share in antennae, but accepted 
Handset Products Division
Year ended 2008 2007 
31 December £m £m +/–
Revenue 348.7 303.0 +15%
Underlying operating proﬁ t 37.4 42.4 –12%
Return on sales 10.7% 14.0% 
HANDSET PRODUCTS 2008 REVENUE 
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT
Actuation Mechanisms
Antennae Handset Metals Laird PLC    11
a reduced share in BLS particularly in lower priced 
shields. Sales to Sony Ericsson also fell, partly as 
a result of Sony Ericsson’s own drop off in handset 
shipments, particularly in higher end handsets.
 In 2008 we began to gain traction with Taiwanese 
handset OEMs and ODMs,  as well as with the main 
handheld device makers RIM and Palm,  with further 
gains expected in 2009.
Overall, the market for our mechanical actuation 
mechanisms continued to increase, with more 
phones using sliders and cameras. We now have a 
very signiﬁ cant business in this area, following our 
acquisition of M2Sys in early 2007, and in 2008 
began to penetrate non-Nokia accounts. This trend is 
expected to continue in 2009.
The division’s underlying operating proﬁ t fell 12% 
in the year to £37.4 million (2007, £42.4 million). 
Return on sales fell from 14.0% in 2007 to 10.7% 
in 2008 with the decline being caused by a number 
of factors. These included the effect of adverse 
foreign exchange movements in the ﬁ rst half of 
2008, reduced volumes in the second half, change 
in the product mix (in particular a higher proportion 
of antennae modules and actuation mechanisms, 
with higher materials content, resulting in lower than 
average margins), increased investment in 2008 
on engineering, R&D and account management, 
India start-up costs, and increased price downs 
particularly in handset metals.
Most industry commentators expect global unit 
handset shipments to decline by at least 10% in 
2009 compared with 2008. However, we believe 
that we can mitigate to a degree the impact of this 
on our business, by the broadening of our customer 
base and our expanded product portfolio, as well as 
through our continuous improvement programmes, 
higher procurement savings, and by concentrating 
on handset product manufacturing in our lowest cost 
plants, in China and India.
We announced the closure of our antennae assembly 
plant in Hungary in December, and began relocating 
manufacture of handset products from Mexico and 
the Czech Republic to China. Our plant in Chennai, 
India became fully operational during the year, 
initially supplying Nokia and with penetration of new 
customers in India anticipated in 2009. 2008 also 
saw us ramp up manufacturing and assembly of 
actuation mechanisms in Beijing and Shenzhen, 
China. During the year we expanded our handset 
engineering teams in Stockholm, Sweden and in 
Beijing and Shenzhen in China, and opened an 
advanced engineering and technology development 
centre in San Jose, USA, the latter achieving 
immediate programme wins for delivery in 2009.
We also made investments in the following key areas, 
which should beneﬁ t us in 2009 and beyond:-
• Laser Directed Structuring (“LDS”), a method to 
apply three dimensional antennae patterns on a 
plastic carrier, using an advanced laser system 
and plating process.
• Physical Vapour Deposition for the manufacture of 
precision visual parts.
• State of the art processes for the manufacture 
of antennae radiators based on ﬂ exible circuit 
boards for the portable device market.
• A unique combination of mechanical sliders 
containing an embedded, fully functional 
antennae system.
We are also expanding our product portfolio with 
advanced antennae solutions for the emerging 
mobile Broadband PC market. These will enable 
enhanced performance for 3G, 4G and advanced 
Radio Frequency (“RF”) for Notebooks, Netbooks 
and mobile internet devices.
We believe that in the current period of market turmoil 
there are opportunities to increase our capabilities, 
bring on new product families, and expand our market 
shares at the expense of weaker competitors. We 
will be pursuing these opportunities in 2009, to best 
position our business for the market recovery.  Laird PLC    13
Performance Materials
Division
OPERATING REVIEW
Our customised, high precision 
products and systems are critical in 
maintaining and enhancing the integrity 
and performance of electronic devices.
The division designs and supplies a 
full range of EMI shielding materials, 
thermal management solutions and 
signal integrity products. These 
provide critical protection for a wide 
range of electronic devices, allowing 
them to function and connect 
effectively, whether for voice or visual 
communication or for high quality data 
storage and transmission.
Our EMI shielding products isolate 
sensitive electronic components 
and apparatus from electromagnetic 
emissions, which can interfere with 
their operation and performance; our 
thermal management materials protect 
and improve a device’s performance 
through the transfer of heat, while our 
ferrite-based signal integrity products 
remove and ﬁ lter unwanted or harmful 
electromagnetic “noise” generated by 
active components. 14    Laird PLC
Divisional revenues increased by 5% in 2008 to 
£190.9 million although at constant currency organic 
growth in the full year was negative 5%, compared 
with positive growth of 7% in the ﬁ rst half, as a result 
of the marked fall off in demand in the second half.
The majority, 65%, of the divisional revenues in 2008 
were EMI shielding materials, with 23% from our 
thermal management solutions and 12% from our 
signal integrity products.
By market segment, the majority, 56%, of the 
division’s revenues in 2008 were to the IT, 
telecommunications and Datacomm sectors, with 
the balance to the consumer electronics, industrial 
and instrumentation, medical, and aerospace and 
defence markets.
The division serves a large and diverse customer 
base and we remain particularly well positioned, with 
leading market shares, in the computing, network 
and telecom infrastructure segments. Despite the 
2008 downturn, we saw increased sales over 2007 
of our EMI and Thermal products to Cisco, Huawei, 
Motorola, Sun, Juniper, Quanta, Siemens, Ericsson, 
and Intel, and maintained our sales to Dell.
EMI and Thermal sales into the Notebook PC market 
showed good growth compared with 2007. Sales to 
HP declined, largely in our signal integrity products 
into the printer segment, where demand remained 
soft during the year. In consumer electronics, our 
EMI sales into the ﬂ at screen TV segment showed 
good growth in the year, again despite the downturn, 
with market share growth at Panasonic, Samsung, 
Toshiba and Sony.
Underlying operating proﬁ t fell 17% in the year to 
£23.1 million (2007, £28.0 million). Return on sales 
in the division fell from 15.4% in 2007 to 12.1% in 
2008, with the decline due to a number of factors. 
Performance Materials Division
Year ended 2008 2007
31 December £m £m +/–
Revenue 190.9 181.8 +5%
Underlying operating proﬁ t 23.1 28.0 –17%
Return on sales 12.1% 15.4% 
IT / Datacomm
Transportation
Consumer
Industrial & Instrumentation
Other
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2008 REVENUE 
BY MARKET SEGMENT 
Non-handset EMI
Thermal
Signal Integrity
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2008 REVENUE 
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT  Laird PLC    15
These included the effect of adverse currency 
movements in the ﬁ rst half of 2008, reduced volumes 
in the second half, temporarily higher materials and 
sales administration costs resulting from our North 
American restructuring, increased investment in 2008 
in engineering, R&D and account management, and 
pricing pressure in signal integrity products.
We were active in the year in expanding our product 
portfolio, and introduced new product lines in our 
non metal EMI shielding offering. These new products 
were key in strengthening our position in the telecom 
infrastructure segment, and we remain optimistic 
about their further potential.
We continue to expand our metal shielding solutions 
with our ﬁ rst sales to Garmin and Lorentz for their 
portable GPS applications. We have expanded our 
precision metals capabilities and we achieved our 
ﬁ rst convergence product sales using thermal board 
level shielding for Nokia and Micron.
Our range of thermal products are needed to remove 
unwanted heat from active electronic components, 
thereby enhancing their performance.
We maintained our leading market position in thermal 
gap ﬁ ller materials, by expanding beyond traditional 
applications (computing, wireless infrastructure, and 
gaming), into new areas such as lighting and other 
consumer devices. New products were launched 
which focused on maintaining our lead in high 
thermal performance, and others were products 
designed to deliver acceptable performance at a 
lower price.
New high performance materials in phase change 
and grease products allowed us to achieve the 
extremely demanding performance required by 
customers for use in their memory and advanced 
micro processor applications. Thermal interface 
products for power and light applications also 
showed substantial growth, due to the emerging 
needs of high powered LED lighting applications.
Our thermoelectric heating and cooling products 
continued to grow as active cooling solutions for 
telecom infrastructure, medical imaging, lasers, 
and analytical systems demanded high reliability 
and precise temperature control in more compact 
thermoelectric systems.
In our signal integrity products, while our overall sales 
to the printer market were down, we successfully 
began diversifying our customer base beyond our 
traditional customer in this area, Hewlett Packard, 
with programme wins at Canon, Epson and Lexmark. 
We also began expanding our board level ferrite 
components offering, particularly for set top boxes 
and digital subscriber line hardware applications. We 
have begun developing a new generation of products, 
and are strengthening our direct sales force: both of 
these actions are expected to beneﬁ t us in 2009.
Operationally, we completed the closure of our 
EMI shielding plant in Pennsylvania, USA and have 
expanded the division’s manufacturing footprint 
in Mexico and China. We have also announced 
the progressive ramp down of the majority of the 
manufacture of thermal products at our Cleveland, 
USA facility, and product transfers to China will take 
place during 2009.
The higher speed, power and performance of 
electronic devices will underpin demand for our 
Performance Materials division’s products. In the 
current downturn we are accelerating the relocation 
of our remaining manufacturing in the USA to lower 
cost locations, maintaining our emphasis on the 
development of higher performance products to 
better differentiate us from our competitors, and 
expanding our customer base. All of these actions 
should beneﬁ t us when markets recover. 16    Laird PLC Laird PLC    17
Heading
Laird PLC    17
Wireless Systems
Division
OPERATING REVIEW
We design and supply a range 
of customised, high speciﬁ cation 
wireless antennae, systems and 
machine-to-machine (“M2M”) 
wireless modules for the 
infrastructure, automotive and 
transportation, municipal, industrial 
and instrumentation, datacomm, 
security, retail and asset 
management markets. 18    Laird PLC 18    Laird PLC
Divisional revenues increased by 20% in 2008 to 
£95.7 million (2007, £79.5 million), helped by the 
acquisitions of Cushcraft in early 2007 and Ezurio 
in early 2008.  Organic revenue growth at constant 
currency in the full year was 2%, compared with 
growth of 26% in the ﬁ rst half.
The majority, 57%, of the division’s revenues in 
2008 were from telematics antennae modules into 
the automotive market, with 34% of revenues from 
the infrastructure, datacomm, security and asset 
management sectors, and 9% from sales of our 
wireless M2M modules.
In 2008, our telematics antennae OEM sales to our 
major automotive customers were ﬂ at year on year, 
in spite of a rapidly deteriorating vehicle sales market 
in the second half of the year. These positive results 
were achieved in part by increasing the penetration 
of our antennae products as satellite radio became 
standard equipment on many vehicles in the United 
States. We also launched high volume antennae 
programmes with Ford, a new customer, during 
the year. 
In the telematics commercial segment, we continued 
our planned ramp down in the low margin consumer 
retroﬁ t segment and directed our focus on wireless 
M2M products. Our advanced development team 
introduced a low cost telematics device aimed at the 
asset management / vehicle tracking segment for 
the ﬁ rst time. In addition, we have developed several 
“smart antennae”, meaning antennae integrated 
with wireless modules, for major customers such as 
Magneti Marelli and Qualcomm.
We are seeing increasing instances of applications 
where wireless modules, including 802.11, Wireless 
LAN, and Bluetooth, are integrated into telematics’ 
products such as the smart antennae referred to 
above. Our new solution for vehicle tracking and 
Wireless Systems Division
Year ended 2008 2007
31 December £m £m +/–
Revenue 95.7 79.5 +20%
Underlying operating proﬁ t 8.0 9.6 –17%
Return on sales 8.4% 12.1% 
IT / Datacomm
Transportation / Automotive
Other
WIRELESS SYSTEMS 2008 REVENUE 
BY MARKET SEGMENT 
Telematics
Infrastructure and other antennae
Wireless “M2M” modules
WIRELESS SYSTEMS 2008 REVENUE 
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT  Laird PLC    19 Laird PLC    19
data collection is also gaining traction with large ﬂ eet 
operators and is currently being evaluated in several 
ﬁ eld trials.
Our development of various Bluetooth, Zigbee and 
proprietary radio platforms will allow us to expand 
our product proﬁ le in various M2M segments beyond 
telematics, most notably in retail, meter reading and 
diagnostics applications.
Deployments of US based WiMax infrastructure 
networks were sluggish in 2008, due to delays in 
infrastructure roll outs as the market waited to see 
whether WiMax or the competing fourth generation 
cellular protocol would predominate. In infrastructure 
antennae more generally, we continued to win 
new OEM designs and are in a good position to 
participate in future growth areas such as Asia, 
where we have increased our sales footprint.
Although a number of large RFID deployments were 
delayed during the year, we saw our own business 
double in 2008 and continue to be optimistic regarding 
the long term growth opportunities offered by RFID 
penetration in asset tracking, real-time location 
systems (RTLS), and in retail and warehousing.
Our Land Mobile Radio applications grew well in 
2008, driven by key OEM application wins as well as 
US Homeland Security spending. We believe there 
will be continued emphasis on US infrastructure 
spending in this area over the medium term.
We expanded our Broadband infrastructure 
capabilities through the use of cellular based 
frequencies, using picocells, point-to-point 
systems and repeaters. We have both strong OEM 
relationships as well as broad channel coverage, 
and are positioned to take advantage of the newly 
developed femtocell short range communications 
deployments in 2009 and beyond.
We also achieved growth in personal gaming and 
set top box applications. This market continues 
to look strong over the medium term as wireless 
networking solutions moves from accessories to 
standard integrated functionality for these devices.
The division’s underlying operating proﬁ t fell 17% in 
the year, to £8.0 million (2007, £9.6 million). Return 
on sales fell from 12.1% in 2007 to 8.4% in 2008, 
with the decline being caused by a number of 
factors. These included the effect of lower volumes 
in the second half, higher materials content in M2M 
modules, increased investment in engineering, 
R&D and direct sales, and greater pricing pressure 
in Telematics.
The division suffered particularly in the latter part 
of 2008, with reduced demand in our telematics 
applications in line with the well publicised problems 
of the automotive industry. We also started to see 
delays and programme cutbacks in infrastructure and 
RFID antennae programmes, while the M2M module 
market did not exhibit the growth projected by 
industry commentators and customers in the ﬁ rst half 
of 2008.
We expect these conditions to continue during 2009. 
We will continue to reduce costs where necessary 
in the division to enhance our competitive position 
at the expense of weaker competitors. We are also 
maintaining our focus on product development and 
on improving our capabilities, as well as increasing 
our customer penetration and geographic spread 
of business beyond the US. All of these factors 
are designed to position the division for a return to 
growth as economic conditions recover. 20    Laird PLC
Technology and Innovation
Our aim is to make ourselves indispensible to our 
customers, and to differentiate ourselves from our 
competitors, through delivering technology-based 
solutions. We maintained our technology leadership 
positions during the year, working closely with 
our customers to develop advanced solutions 
critical to the performance of their own electronic 
devices. Areas of expertise include electromagnetic 
interference shielding, heat transfer/thermal 
management, wireless voice and data, acoustic 
design, complex mechanical structures and aspects 
of satellite communications. With some 785 technical 
professionals globally providing advanced R&D and 
engineering, allied to local design expertise and rapid 
prototyping, we are equipped to deliver solutions at 
the component or systems level and have a unique 
ability to integrate multiple, specialised technologies.
Our investment in R&D in 2008 was £39.0 million 
before £7.3 million of capitalised development, 
up from £25.0 million in 2007, although exchange 
movements accounted for £3.6 million of the 
increase. Expenditure was 6.1% of sales in 2008 
before capitalised development.
We serve a broad array of markets, ranging from the 
medical market, where we design and manufacture 
complex thermoelectric modules that cool critical 
electronic systems in x-ray imaging equipment, to 
the cellular infrastructure market, where we have 
expanded our product offering to include solutions 
for all of the communication protocols, including 
LTE, WiMax and other 2G/3G/4G cellular network 
requirements. 
A view of formed metallic particles (left) and an image of particulate 
ﬁ llers (right) captured using scanning electron microscopy in our 
Corporate Research Lab in Bangalore, India, where we analyse 
the properties of material systems and their impact on product 
performance
OPERATING REVIEW
PATENT PORTFOLIO 2005-08
0
200
400
600
800
2005 2006 2007 2008 Innovation in Technology Convergence 
Mobile device customers demand high levels of 
technology integration to meet the physical operation 
of their phones, minimising size and weight whilst 
meeting demanding performance criteria. One of 
our innovations in this area is the combination of 
highly efﬁ cient, controllable antennae radiators based 
on ﬂ exible circuit boards with a thin, lightweight 
mechanical slider, for application in next generation 
mobile phone handsets. 
In the Datacomm sector, high speed computer 
memory can require enhanced cooling to maintain 
performance and longevity and we provide an 
advanced solution to this challenge through the 
combination of precision progressive stamping 
technology and high performance thermal 
interface materials. 
A further example of technology convergence is the 
combination of deep drawn stamping technology, 
high speed laser welding and precision micro 
ﬁ ngerstock progressive stamping, which produces 
high performance miniature electromagnetic shields 
for demanding portable electronics applications.
Advanced Manufacturing Technologies
Many of our product innovations have required us 
to develop proprietary manufacturing techniques or 
establish new manufacturing processes in-house. 
During the year we developed our own enhanced 
acoustic testing capabilities, giving us design 
capabilities in this area, and allowing us to simulate 
a range of performance conditions: this allows our 
customers to optimise their own product design. 
Surface mount technology (“SMT”) is also a key 
manufacturing capability, employed to mount 
robotically the control circuitry to cellular antennae, 
assemble telematics ampliﬁ ers and assemble 
Bluetooth™ and WiFi radio modules. Our new 
high speed automated laser welding, reel-to-reel 
insert moulding of thermoplastic materials, and the 
development of ﬂ exible ﬁ lm antennae manufacturing 
capabilities, allow us to offer integrated solutions to 
our customers.
Intellectual Property Portfolio Growth
The importance of a solid intellectual property 
foundation is becoming ever more critical, as 
innovation focuses on high value, multi-technology 
solutions. During the year 84 new patent applications 
were generated and 112 new patents granted, 
bringing our total patent portfolio to 725 issued 
patents worldwide, up 19% on 2007. We also have 
more than 476 patents pending. 
Corporate Research Laboratory Achievements
Our Corporate Research Laboratory in Bangalore, 
India, which opened in December 2007, is now fully 
operational with a growing team of scientists with 
masters and doctorate degrees, and with world 
class research equipment in place. The focus of this 
centre is on the development of leading edge new 
materials technology that will provide breakthrough 
new product platforms. To date the laboratory 
has generated three of these platforms capable of 
securing intellectual property protection, and has 
established R&D relationships with universities in the 
local area. 
Laird PLC    21 22    Laird PLC
Revision to Segments 
In 2008, Laird changed its organisational structure from 
two divisions, namely Antenna & Wireless Systems, 
and Electronic Components & Systems, to three 
divisions; Handset Products, Performance Materials 
and Wireless Systems. The segmental reporting 
adopted in these Accounts mirrors these changes.
Revenue 
Revenue from continuing operations increased by 
13% to £635.3 million in 2008 (2007, £564.3 million). 
Organic growth from continuing operations is 
measured by restating 2008 revenue at 2007 
exchange rates and comparing it to the reported 
revenue for 2007 but after adjusting 2007 on to a 
pro-forma basis. The pro-forma adjustment is the 
addition of revenue in respect of acquisitions as if 
we had owned the acquisitions in 2007 for the same 
proportion of the year that they were owned in 2008.
On this basis, organic growth was 3.1% for Handset 
Products (25.8% in the ﬁ rst half), a reduction of 4.8% 
for Performance Materials (growth of 7.3% in the 
ﬁ rst half) and growth of 2.2% for Wireless Systems 
(25.5% in the ﬁ rst half). Data for the full year are 
summarised in the table below: 
 Handset Performance Wireless
 Products Materials Systems Total
 £m  £m  £m  £m
2007 revenue  303.0  181.8  79.5  564.3
Adjustment for
acquisitions in 2007  4.7  –  6.7  11.4
2007 pro-forma
revenue  307.7  181.8  86.2  575.7
2008 revenue  348.7  190.9  95.7  635.3
Adjustment to
restate at constant
exchange rates  (31.5)  (17.9)  (7.6) (57.0)
2008 revenue at
2007 exchange rates  317.2  173.0  88.1  578.3
Organic growth 3.1% (4.8)% 2.2% 0.5%
The top ﬁ ve customers accounted for 61% of 
revenue in 2008 (2007, 58%) and the top ten 
customers accounted for 67% (2007, 65%). 
Net Margins
Net margins were 10.8% in 2008 (2007, 14.2%). 
Margins by segment are summarised below. Margins 
were lower, year on year, in each segment with the 
impact of the slow down (including de-stocking) in 
the fourth quarter having a material impact. Data for 
the ﬁ rst half on the new segmental basis have also 
been included.
 First Half Full Year First Half Full Year
£m  2007 2007  2008  2008
Handset Products    
Revenue 125.4 303.0 170.0 348.7
PBIT 16.5 42.4 19.3 37.4
ROS% 13.2% 14.0% 11.4% 10.7%
    
Performance Materials    
Revenue 87.8 181.8 96.9 190.9
PBIT 13.7 28.0 13.7 23.1
ROS% 15.6% 15.4% 14.2% 12.1%
    
Wireless Systems    
Revenue 33.5 79.5 48.1 95.7
PBIT 3.9 9.6 4.9 8.0
ROS% 11.6% 12.1% 10.2% 8.4%
Proﬁ t 
Proﬁ t before tax from continuing operations was 
£26.5 million (2007, £51.5 million). In the prior 
period, there was a proﬁ t after tax for the year from 
discontinued operations of £88.0 million which 
included a gain on sale of Laird Security Systems. 
Finance Director’s report
Jonathan Silver Laird PLC    23
    Underlying Proﬁ t
Continuing underlying proﬁ t before tax in the year 
was £60.6 million (2007, £72.4 million). Underlying 
proﬁ t is deﬁ ned as proﬁ t before tax, exceptional 
items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, the 
gain or loss on sale of businesses and the impact 
arising from the fair valuing of ﬁ nancial instruments, 
as set out in note 14. 
Exceptional Costs
The steps taken to reduce headcount and capacity 
as a result of the lower levels of activity have resulted 
in £20.3 million of exceptional costs in 2008 (2007, 
£11.9 million for continuing operations) of which 
£3.4 million is non-cash. Note 7 analyses these 
costs by division. The cash outlay in the period was 
£9.7 million (£4.2 million of which was accrued in 2007) 
with a further cash outlay to come in 2009 and 2010. 
Annualised savings are estimated at over £15 million.
Finance Costs 
Finance costs, excluding a loss on the fair valuing 
of ﬁ nancial instruments of £2.4 million (2007, gain 
of £1.2 million) were £7.9 million compared to 
£7.6 million in 2007. Interest cover was 8.2 times, 
well above the minimum of 2.5 required by the 
covenant in the Group’s principal loan agreements. 
Taxation 
The underlying tax charge on total underlying proﬁ t 
before tax is equivalent to an average tax rate of 
19.8%, higher than 15.5% in 2007, with the principal 
cause of the increase being a lower level of tax 
incentives in China.
Proﬁ ts in the USA are subject to a relatively low 
charge and should remain so for many years in part 
due to tax deductions for amortised goodwill resulting 
from acquisitions. A signiﬁ cant proportion of proﬁ ts are 
also from jurisdictions with low tax rates or with tax 
incentives. An analysis of the total tax charge is given 
in note 11. Going forward, the average tax rate is likely 
to rise further given the increases in tax rates in China 
and this could mean an underlying rate of around 23% 
to 24% in 2009.
Underlying Earnings 
Continuing underlying earnings per share of 27.4p 
were 17% lower than the 33.1p achieved in 2007 
(note 14). Underlying earnings are based on 
underlying proﬁ t less underlying tax and exclude 
deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill.
Cash Flow
Analysis of cash ﬂ ow 
    2008
£m
Operating proﬁ t  68.5
Depreciation / asset disposal gain 12.2
Other non-cash (2.5)
 78.2
Increase in working capital* (1.4)
Capital expenditure less disposals (28.7)
Operating cash ﬂ ow 48.1
Finance costs  (9.7)
Taxation  (17.2)
Trading cash ﬂ ow surplus 21.2
Dividends  (21.1)
Acquisitions  (17.7)
Disposals 11.5
Exceptional costs  (9.7)
Additional pension contributions  (0.7)
Share issues 0.9
Other 0.4
Increase in net borrowings before exchange 
movement  (15.2)
Exchange translation movement  (38.9)
Increase in net borrowings  (54.1)
* after adjusting for creditor increases on exceptional items of £6.8 million.
There was a working capital increase of £1.4 million 
with both trade receivables and trade payables falling 
signiﬁ cantly (in constant currency) due to the lower 
levels of output in the fourth quarter but inventories 
were higher than at the end of 2007 and typically take 
longer to reduce following a drop in activity. Cash 
conversion (operating cash ﬂ ow as a proportion of 
operating proﬁ t) was 70%. 
Treasury Policies
The Group has a centralised Treasury function whose 
objectives are to monitor and manage the ﬁ nancial 
risks of the Group and to ensure that sufﬁ cient 
liquidity is available to meet the requirements of 
the business. Group Treasury is not a proﬁ t centre 
and operates within a framework of policies and 
procedures.
Group Treasury use derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 
to assist in the management of foreign exchange and 
interest rate risk, principally forward foreign exchange 
contracts and interest rate swaps. All hedging 
is carried out centrally and speculative trading is 
speciﬁ cally prohibited by Group Treasury policy. Finance Director’s report (continued)
Covenants
A key consideration for ﬁ nancial planning is to 
maintain sufﬁ cient headroom between borrowings 
and the ceiling set by the covenants. The Group’s 
bank facilities and US Private Placement loan notes 
contain two principal ﬁ nancial covenants; net debt/
EBITDA (earnings before exceptional items, interest, 
tax, depreciation and amortisation), and interest 
cover.
For the year ended 31 December 2008, net 
borrowings were 1.8 times EBITDA, 52% of the 
maximum permitted of 3.5 times. Interest cover was 
8.2 times, well in excess of the minimum requirement 
of 2.5 times. Thus, there was signiﬁ cant ﬁ nancial 
headroom. 
Going forward, as a matter of course we estimate 
our headroom against the covenants and in the 
current economic environment we have tested their 
sensitivity to a number of alternative scenarios to 
ensure ongoing compliance. We do not anticipate 
approaching our covenant limits. 
Currencies in 2008 
The average and period end exchange rates are set 
out in note 5. In 2008, some 80% of revenues (and 
some 70% of costs) were in US Dollar and Renminbi 
with a further 12% in Euros. In 2008, we had a 
Renminbi deﬁ cit, but in 2009 and going forward, we 
expect the deﬁ cit to be eliminated as our customers 
plan to assemble more of their output in China, 
resulting in less of our product being exported to their 
plants outside of China. 
We strive to balance local currency exposures but 
we operate a global business and this can create 
some currency imbalances where we cannot always 
match operating or procurement costs with revenues 
in that currency. Other than the Renminbi, these 
currencies accounted for some 10% of our operating 
costs, largely represented by the Euro, Yen, Swedish 
Krona and Czech Koruna. In 2008, these currencies 
appreciated against the US Dollar (our effective 
operating currency in which we generate a large 
surplus) with most of the impact in the ﬁ rst half. For 
2009, if current exchange rates were to prevail then 
this would be expected to have a beneﬁ cial impact 
compared with 2008.
Interest Rate Risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as it holds 
borrowings on both a ﬁ xed and ﬂ oating basis. The 
Group’s policy for this risk is to optimise the mix of 
ﬁ xed and ﬂ oating rate borrowings using interest rate 
swaps and forward rate agreements to manage the 
Group’s ﬁ nance costs.
Credit Risk
The Group’s policy on counterparty risk management 
is to place cash deposits and other ﬁ nancial 
instruments with our relationship banks, all of whom 
also provide credit facilities to the Group. The level 
of exposure to each bank is continually monitored. 
As at 31 December 2008 all cash and short-term 
deposits had a maturity of less than one month.
Foreign Exchange Management
The Group aims to minimise its exposures to 
transactional currency exposures by matching local 
currency income with local currency costs. The 
Group aims to cover forward at least 75% of the 
unmatched cash ﬂ ows on a quarterly basis.
Foreign currency borrowings are used to partially 
hedge the currencies of our principal assets and cash 
ﬂ ows. Where foreign currency borrowings match with 
our investment in overseas assets they are treated as 
a hedge of the net investment.
Net Borrowings and Debt Facilities
Overall, net borrowings increased by £54.1 million 
to £139.5 million; £38.9 million of the increase 
reﬂ ects the weakness of sterling upon the translation 
of foreign currency borrowings (largely US Dollar 
denominated) as a result of the weaker Pound.
A cornerstone of Laird’s ﬁ nancial planning is 
to ensure that the Group maintains committed 
loan ﬁ nance which exceeds expected borrowing 
requirements and has a signiﬁ cant proportion 
with terms that exceed one year. Laird has £265 
million (2007, £195 million) of bilateral revolving 
credit facilities which do not expire until August 
2012, £70 million of which was arranged in 2008. 
In addition, Laird has in issue $150 million (£104 
million) of US Dollar Private Placement notes which 
are repaid between 2010 to 2012 ($10 million), 2014 
($97 million) and 2016 ($43 million). In total, Laird has 
£369 million of committed loan ﬁ nance, all in excess 
of 3 years.
24    Laird PLC In addition, there is a translation impact in converting 
proﬁ ts into our reporting currency (the Pound); each 
US$0.01 appreciation against sterling approximates 
to an annual increase in operating proﬁ t of £400,000. 
The majority of the Group’s assets are held overseas 
and these are hedged in part by foreign currency 
loans. The translation impact of exchange rate 
movements at the end of 2008 compared with the 
end of 2007 was substantial given the movement in 
exchange rates and increased shareholders’ funds 
by £149.2 million.
Pensions 
Following the divestment of Laird Security Systems in 
2007, there are only 14 employees who are members 
of the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t plans.
IFRIC 14 was adopted in 2007, which allows 
pension surpluses to be taken onto the balance 
sheet dependent on the rules of individual schemes. 
There is an overall deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension scheme 
surplus of £0.1 million at 31 December 2008. At 
31 December 2007, there was an overall surplus of 
£8.1 million.
The principal causes of the reduction in the surplus 
were changes in the assumptions used to calculate 
liabilities and lower asset values. The bond rate used 
to discount liabilities was 6.1% in 2008 compared to 
5.7% in 2007 which together with a lower inﬂ ation 
rate assumption of 3.1% (2007, 3.4%), reduced the 
estimate for liabilities by £7 million. This was more 
than offset by a £14 million reduction in the value of 
the assets.
Shareholders’ Funds 
Shareholders’ funds at the 2008 year end were 
£585.3 million (2007, £448.5 million). The 
reconciliation is set out in note 31. 
Return on Capital Employed 
Return on capital employed (underlying proﬁ t 
before interest and tax as a proportion of average 
shareholders’ funds plus net borrowings during the 
year) was 11.2% compared to 16.0% in 2007.
Laird PLC    25 26    Laird PLC
Board of Directors
Nigel Keen
Chairman. MA, FCA. Appointed a 
non-executive director in 1993 and 
Chairman in 2000. Chairman of the 
Nominations Committee and a member 
of the Remuneration Committee. 
Chairman of Axis-Shield plc, Oxford 
Instruments plc, Deltex Medical 
Group plc and Bioquell PLC.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chief Executive. BSc, MBA, Chartered 
Engineer. Appointed Managing Director 
in 2001 and Chief Executive in 2002. 
Previously held senior management 
positions with Invensys plc and BTR plc. 
Non-executive director of Meggitt plc 
since 2004 and a non-executive Board 
Member of United Kingdom Trade & 
Investment from 2005 to 2009.
Andrew Robb
Non-executive director. FCMA. 
Appointed in 2004. Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. Previously 
Finance Director of Pilkington plc 
and P&O Steam Navigation Co. 
Non-executive director of Tata Steel 
Limited, Kesa Electricals plc and 
PayPoint plc.
Anthony Reading, MBE
Non-executive director. FCA.
Appointed in 2004. Senior independent 
non-executive director. Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee and a 
member of the Audit and Nominations 
Committees. Previously an executive 
director of Tomkins plc and Chairman 
and Chief Executive of Tomkins Corp. 
USA. Non-executive director of 
Taylor Wimpey Plc, Spectris plc and 
e2v technologies plc. Laird PLC    27
Martin Rapp
Managing Director. BS, MS, MBA. 
Joined Laird in 1996 as General 
Manager of Laird’s EMI shielding 
business, becoming President of APM, 
Inc in 1997. Appointed Chief Executive 
of Laird Technologies, Inc in 2001. 
Appointed a director in January 2005. 
Previously held management positions 
with Monsanto. Non-executive director 
of Kionix, Inc. US citizen.
Jonathan Silver
Finance Director. BA, CA. Joined Laird 
in 1986 and appointed to the Board 
as Finance Director in 1994. Previously 
Group Treasurer and Corporate 
Development Manager. Non-executive 
director of INVESCO Income Growth 
Trust plc.
Professor Michael Kelly, FRS FREng
Non-executive director. BSc, MSc, PhD, 
ScD. Appointed in 2006. A member of 
the Remuneration Committee. Currently 
Prince Philip Professor of Technology 
at the University of Cambridge, and 
part-time Chief Scientiﬁ c Advisor to the 
Department for Communities and Local 
Government. Formerly Cambridge 
Executive Director for the Cambridge-MIT 
Institute, and previously Head of the 
School of Electronics, Computing and 
Mathematics at the University of Surrey.
Dr William Spivey
Non-executive director. BS, MS, PhD. 
Appointed in 2002. A member of the 
Remuneration and Audit Committees. 
Formerly President and CEO of 
Luminent, Inc., having previously held 
senior management positions with AT&T 
Corporation and Lucent Technologies. 
Non-executive director of the Raytheon 
Company, Novellus Systems, ADC 
Telecommunications and Cascade 
Microtech Inc. US citizen.
Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG
Non-executive director. MA. Appointed 
in 2006. A member of the Remuneration 
and Nominations Committees. 
Master of Gonville and Caius College, 
Cambridge. HM Diplomatic Service, 
retired. Formerly HM Ambassador to 
the People’s Republic of China, having 
previously served as HM Ambassador, 
Warsaw, as Assistant Under Secretary 
of State for North Asia and the Paciﬁ c, 
and earlier as Head of the Hong 
Kong Department of the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Ofﬁ ce. 28    Laird PLC
Directors’ report
for the year ended 31 December 2008
Laird PLC is a holding company. The principal activities of its subsidiary undertakings (“subsidiaries”) during the year were the design, 
manufacture and supply of products and services to the electronics industry. The Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review 
and Finance Director’s report should be read in conjunction with this report. An analysis of revenue, profit, assets and liabilities by 
segment is shown in note 3 on pages 58 and 59. 
Business review
A review of the development and performance of the Group during the year, and its position at the year end, is given in the 
Chairman’s statement on page 3, the Chief Executive’s review on pages 4 to 7, the Finance Director’s report on pages 22 to 25, the 
Operating Review on pages 8 to 21, and note 14 to the financial statements. Information on environmental matters is contained in 
the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 35 to 38. These pages, and the Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) contained 
therein, are incorporated into this report by reference. Definitions of the KPIs are given on page 104.
Results and dividend 
The Group profit for the year after taxation was £14.3 million (2007, £127.7 million). Underlying profit before tax was £60.6 million 
(2007, £76.8 million) and is analysed in note 14 on page 66. The recommended final dividend is 7.88p per ordinary share to be paid 
on 6 July 2009 to ordinary shareholders registered as members of the Company at the close of business on 5 June 2009, making a 
total dividend for the year of 11.88p per ordinary share. 
Risks and uncertainties
The management and control of risks within the Group is embedded within basic operating procedures. These procedures comprise 
a range of measures including Group Operating Rules, monthly reporting, internal and external audits, the risk management 
framework comprising a strategic level Risk Management Group, with operational risk management under the Laird Technologies 
Risk Management Committee, and self-assessment and continuous monitoring by Group and operating management.
The Group operates globally in varied markets and the principal risks and uncertainties that are or may be faced by the Group are set 
out below. In addition, information on the Laird risk management framework is given on page 34.
Overall growth and demand for products
The overall demand for products is influenced by the level of customers’ commercial activity, which in turn is affected by the 
general economic climate, market conditions and consumer confidence generally. This demand can be volatile and is dependent 
on a number of factors including the macroeconomic climate, the rate of change in the regulatory environment and in industry 
consolidation, the adoption of new technologies, the supply and availability of credit and customer spending patterns.
Laird’s markets are highly competitive and it must be able to respond to technological change
The Group operates in market sectors which are characterised by a high level of competition between suppliers, changing industry 
dynamics such as vertical integration, and which are driven by rapid technological change. The Group must continue to respond 
promptly and effectively to technological change and customers’ and competitors’ innovations and changing market dynamics 
in order to be successful. This requires Laird to put together multi-national, multi-functional teams which are essential to the 
development of new products in high growth markets.
The ability of the Group to meet the demands of the market and to compete effectively is, to a large extent, dependent on the skills, 
experience and performance of its employees and their relationships with customers.
Political, economic and regulatory factors
Having a global reach with significant regional concentrations does involve certain risks for the Group. The Group is exposed to 
political risk and to the effects of possible terrorist action and natural catastrophe. Changes in regulatory and trading compliance 
requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, price or exchange controls, composition or changes in taxation or other governmental 
policies could limit its operations and make the repatriation of profits difficult. In addition, the uncertainty of the legal environment in 
some regions could limit the Group’s ability to enforce its rights.
Dependence on a small number of large customers
The Group is dependent on a small number of key customers. The loss of a major contract or key customer could adversely 
affect the Group’s financial condition and prospects. It may also have wider profit and cash flow implications if Laird has sited its 
manufacturing plants in close proximity to theirs.
Supply chain risks
The Group’s ability to deliver according to market demands depends in large part on obtaining timely and adequate supplies of 
components and raw materials on competitive terms and in line with product quality and safety standards. Failure in the supply 
chain could interrupt its product supply, limit sales and increase costs, as well as affecting the Group’s reputation and brand value. 
Additionally, the raw materials used in the business include commodities such as copper and beryllium copper, steel, aluminium and 
zinc. These commodities experience price volatility which can impact on profits, caused by changes in supply and demand, market 
fluctuations and governmental attitudes.
Operational and product risks
In common with all manufacturing industries, the Group faces the usual range of operational risks including potential business 
interruption from loss of a major facility or IT system, industrial unrest and the consequences of health and safety / environmental 
incidents. Product risks, potentially resulting in reputation damage, or contractual penalties, may arise from failure of operational 
controls in its own, or supplier facilities. 
Risks relating to Intellectual Property Rights
Our products and solutions include technologies in which we hold the intellectual property rights. Third parties may infringe our 
intellectual property or commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of the intellectual property rights of these technologies, 
either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results. Additionally, recognising that our products incorporate a wide 
variety of technologies, claims could be asserted against the Group that we have infringed the intellectual property owned by others. 
Such claims might require us to incur legal costs, to enter into settlement or licence agreements, or to face legal restrictions on 
selling certain products.  Laird PLC    29   
Environmental risks
The environmental laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate impose actual and potential obligations on the Group to comply with 
increasingly stringent environmental regulation, changes to which could result in unforeseen cost increases. Additionally, the Group 
could be liable for remediation of contaminated sites, including some sites no longer owned by it. The Group makes provision for the 
expected cost of remediation based on independent professional advice. However, there is a risk that remediation could prove more 
costly than expected or that new contamination could be discovered.
Financial risks
In addition to any potential exposure to risks related to the general supply of credit and related insurances and to the failure of a key 
banking business partner that we share with all businesses in the current economic climate, the Group is subject to various financial 
and fiscal risks by virtue of its global operations and customer base. Further information on Taxation, Currency Exposures and Credit 
Risk are given in notes 11 and 28 to the financial statements. Information on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes is given in 
note 35 to the financial statements.
Loss of key management or personnel
The Group is highly reliant on the continued services of its senior management, including executive directors, and other key 
personnel, who have skills critical to the continued successful operation of the business. Failure to retain such individuals, or to 
attract and retain strong management and technical staff in the future, could have an adverse effect upon the business and the 
results of its operations.
Significant contracts
The Group has arrangements with its major customers and suppliers whereby regional or global terms of supply are agreed. 
However, these arrangements do not amount to contractual obligations to purchase and supply as these are covered by individual 
purchase orders.
Share capital
The Company has only one class of share and the rights attaching to each share are identical. Details of the rights and obligations 
attaching to the shares are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association which are available on its website. The Company may 
refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share. At a general meeting of the Company, every member has 
one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held. Details of the voting procedure are set out in the notice 
of meeting. 
In the year to 31 December 2008 the issued share capital was increased by the issue of 272,556 ordinary shares following the 
exercise of options under the Company’s 1994 and 2003 executive share options schemes. At 31 December 2008 the issued share 
capital of the Company was 177,534,804 ordinary shares of 28.125p each. Details of the share capital and options outstanding as at 
31 December 2008 are shown in note 29 on page 78.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2009, the shareholders will be requested to authorise an increase in the 
authorised share capital from £70 million to £90 million; to renew the directors’ power to allot shares in the Company; and to renew 
the disapplication of pre-emption rights. Details are set out in the notice of meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 9 May 2008 a Special Resolution was passed to authorise the Company to make purchases 
of up to 10% of its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange. As at 10 March 2009 no shares have been purchased pursuant 
to this authority. Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority at the Annual General Meeting. 
Directors
Re-election of directors
The directors as shown on pages 26 and 27 were all directors throughout the year to 31 December 2008. The Company’s Articles 
of Association (which require shareholder approval for any amendments), set out the powers of the directors and the regulations for 
their appointment and removal. 
In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which requires any non-executive director serving longer than 
nine years on the Board to be subject to annual re-election, Mr N J Keen will offer himself for re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting. Mr Keen fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined Code at the time of his appointment and the 
Board is satisfied that Mr Keen remains free from any relationship with the executive management of the Company which could 
materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement. The Board believes that Mr Keen makes a valuable contribution 
to the Group. During his Chairmanship, Mr Keen has overseen the restructuring of Laird PLC, in particular the successful disposal 
of Laird Security Systems Division in April 2007 which resulted in Laird becoming a focused electronics and technology company. 
He has also overseen the strengthening and development of the Board. The Board wishes him to continue as Chairman because of 
his wide experience of business, particularly in the high technology area and his long-standing financial experience. Mr A J Reading, 
Professor M J Kelly and Sir Christopher Hum will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election. Mr Reading 
was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in 2004. His experience in international businesses is a great asset to the 
Company. Professor Kelly was appointed a non-executive director in 2006. His outstanding academic credentials, commercial 
experience and understanding of new technologies and their applications is invaluable. Sir Christopher Hum was appointed a 
non-executive director in 2006. He brings to the Board his global expertise, particularly in relation to economic and political issues 
in China. None of the non-executive directors offering themselves for re-election has a service contract with the Company or any of 
its subsidiaries. 
Directors’ interests
No director had, in the year to 31 December 2008, a material interest in any third party contract of significance with the Company 
or any of its subsidiaries. Directors’ shareholdings at 31 December 2008 are shown below. These interests were unchanged at 
10 March 2009. Details of share options are shown in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 39 to 46. 30    Laird PLC
Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
Ordinary Shares at
 31.12.08 31.12.07
    
N J Keen 117,927 117,927
P J Hill 200,420 149,986
J C Silver 250,000 159,999
M L Rapp 67,516 46,535
Sir Christopher Hum 3,000 1,488
Professor M J Kelly 1,500 1,500
A J Reading 15,000 12,000
A M Robb 25,000 15,000
Dr W R Spivey 105,489 5,489
     
Directors’ Conflicts of Interest
With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential 
conflicts of interest, where appropriate. This is subject to only directors who have no interest in the matter taking the decision and 
having acted in good faith for what they consider to be most likely to promote the Company’s success. The shareholders approved 
the requisite amendment to the Company’s Articles of Association at the 2008 Annual General Meeting. A register of conflicts or 
potential conflicts of interest has been prepared and it is available at every Board Meeting. 
Directors’ Indemnities
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has indemnified the directors in respect of proceedings brought by 
third parties and such indemnification was in place throughout the year.
In 2005 two of Laird’s final salary pension schemes were merged and during the year a further three schemes were merged. The 
trustees of the schemes, including Mr Keen who is Chairman of the trustees of the surviving scheme, received an indemnity from 
the Company against any claim or other liability arising out of or in connection with the pension schemes and their agreement to 
the merger.
Employment policy
The Group is organised on a decentralised basis with managers of subsidiary companies responsible for developing employment 
policies appropriate to the size, organisation and location of their businesses. Various methods are used throughout the Group 
as appropriate in each location for tracking morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which are reported regularly to local 
management teams.
The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities in terms of recruitment, training and career development for all employees, 
including those with disabilities.  
A copy of the Group’s Employment and Human Rights policy statement is available on the Company’s website.
Employee participation
The Board recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its employees and therefore encourages 
two-way communication. Operating subsidiaries encourage consultation at local level and performance and development reviews 
reinforce the link between business goals, an employee’s contribution and his/her remuneration. Laird Technologies communicates 
regularly with its employees, including information on key events within the Group, charity and community involvement and employee 
achievements. Subsidiaries are encouraged to make all employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the 
performance of their companies.
Change of Control Arrangements
Five employees of the Company have long-standing agreements which provide compensation, in addition to the contractual notice 
period, of up to a maximum of two years’ base salary for loss of employment which occurs as a result of a takeover offer or scheme. 
This additional compensation reduces pro rata to zero over the two years following the date of change of control. No director 
benefits from these arrangements.
On a change of control, the Company’s 5 year bilateral revolving credit facilities may be cancelled by the lenders by not less than 
30 days notice to the Company.
Corporate social responsibility 
In recognition that the Group’s businesses and its activities involve a wide community of stakeholders including investors, employees, 
customers, suppliers and local communities, the Board reviews the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters which 
may affect the Group. A Corporate social responsibility report providing further detail can be found on pages 35 to 38.
Health and safety at work
Laird PLC is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and continuous improvement is sought by the setting 
of objectives and targets based on relevant national and international health and safety standards and monitoring performance against 
these. In addition Laird maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to promote and develop good health and 
safety practices. Further information is shown in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 35 to 38.
Research and development
In recognition of the importance of investing in research and development programmes to foster product innovation and 
manufacturing improvements in the Group, expenditure in 2008 on research and development amounted to £39.0 million (2007, 
£25.1 million), of which £7.3 million has been capitalised (2007, £3.9 million). Laird Technologies continues to develop its technology 
capabilities, with research and development expenditure during the year running at 6.1% of sales (2007, 4.5%). Laird PLC    31   
Basis of preparation of the accounts
As set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities on page 47, the accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis. 
A statement on going concern relating to a business requires judgement at a point in time about future events which by their nature 
are inherently uncertain. The directors have considered the ability of the Group to maintain committed loan finance, meet existing 
debt covenants and the impact of foreign currency exposures, as discussed in the Finance Director’s report on pages 22 to 25. 
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Financial assets and liabilities
An analysis of Group debt is given in note 22 to the financial statements. An analysis of financial instruments at carrying value and 
fair value is given in note 28 to the financial statements. Financial instruments and related disclosures together with a discussion of 
derivative financial instruments and disclosure about market risk are in accordance with IFRS 7.
Supplier payment policy
The Group requires its subsidiaries to negotiate clear and satisfactory arrangements for the payment of suppliers, as part of the 
overall terms and conditions of the supply, and to make payment accordingly. At the year end the Group had only one UK operating 
subsidiary and it had 53 days of purchases outstanding.
Auditors
It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditors.
Shareholders
At 31 December 2008 there were 3,660 shareholders.
Substantial equity interests
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules (“DTRs”) issued by the Financial Services Authority require notifications relating to control 
over exercising voting rights attached to shares. Categories of notifiable interests include direct interests (holdings of shares with 
voting rights attached), indirect interests (those with access to voting rights) and financial instruments (which give the holder the 
formal entitlement to acquire shares with voting rights attached). Notification must be made of each category, and also the aggregate 
of combined holdings, which exceed or fall below the notifiable threshold. The requirements of the DTRs specify that notifications of 
holdings of over 3% only have to be made when a full percentage point increase or decrease occurs. The Company has only one 
class of shares, and does not hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights under the DTRs is equivalent to the number 
of shares in issue.
As at 9 March 2009 the Company had received the notifications of control of 3% or more over the Company’s total voting rights and 
capital in issue as set out below. 
Number of 
Shares
Percentage 
of voting rights
   
Standard Life Investments Ltd 33,676,939 18.97
Aviva Plc and its subsidiaries 31,024,807 17.48
Schroders plc and its subsidiaries 13,701,565 7.72
Prudential Corporation Group of Companies 9,292,290 5.23
Fidelity International Limited and its subsidiaries 8,749,585 4.93
Legal & General Group Plc 7,062,284 3.98
Ignis Investment Services Limited 6,477,002 3.65
   
Charitable donations
In the year to 31 December 2008, the Company gave £4,880 to UK charities (2007, £15,360). The Group also made charitable 
donations of £67,018 (2007, £19,640) to non-UK organisations, details of which are set out in the Corporate social responsibility 
report on page 38.
Disclosure of information to the Auditors
As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware. Each director has taken such steps as he should have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
By Order of the Board
D J L HUDSON
Secretary
10 March 2009
Registered office 
100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ
Registered in England No. 55513 32    Laird PLC
Corporate governance report
for the year to 31 December 2008
The Board considered that during the year ended 31 December 2008 the Company was in compliance with all of the provisions of 
section 1 (Companies) of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board
The responsibilities and objectives of the Board
The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are the owners of the Company. The Board’s principal responsibility is to act in 
the best interests of the shareholders as a whole within the legal framework of the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 
2006. The Board establishes the aims and objectives for the Company, approves the strategic direction and plans and the operating 
budgets proposed by the Chief Executive, and monitors performance against them. The Board is also responsible for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Company, for exercising proper and appropriate corporate governance, for 
establishing and ensuring the effectiveness of the Company’s systems of internal control and reviewing management performance. 
Through the Chief Executive, the Board has regard to the necessary financial and human resources required to meet the 
Company’s objectives.
The composition of the Board
The composition of the Board is outlined on pages 26 and 27. The Board comprises an appropriate mix of executive and non-
executive directors and is of a size and includes the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business. There 
is a clear written division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which has been agreed by the Board. Mr 
Reading is the senior independent non-executive director. The principal role of the senior independent non-executive director is to 
be available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief 
Executive. As has been the practice for a number of years, the major shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet with the 
senior non-executive director during the year. 
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent. Mr Keen, the Chairman, was appointed to the 
Board as an independent non-executive director in 1993. Mr Keen fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined 
Code at the time of his appointment and the Board is satisfied that Mr Keen remains free from any relationship with the executive 
management of the Company which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement. The terms and 
conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available from the Company on request and will be on display at the 
Annual General Meeting. At the Annual General Meeting every year at least one third of the directors retire from office. Such rotation 
of directors ensures that directors submit themselves for re-election regularly, and at least every three years.
The operation of the Board
The Board meets at least eight times a year. A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be discussed is normally set out at 
least twelve months in advance. During the year, the Board travelled to China, which enabled them to visit four of Laird Technologies’ 
main manufacturing plants and to receive presentations from the senior management of each site and from other locations in Asia. 
Laird Technologies’ Chief Technical Officer and the head of Laird Technologies’ Research and Development in Bangalore, India 
attended another Board Meeting held during the year, with further presentations being received by video conference by members of 
the Research and Development team. The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to Committees which are described below. 
The Board determines the membership and Chairmanship of the Committees. Minutes of those Committee meetings are circulated 
to Board Members prior to each Board Meeting. All directors receive Board Papers prior to the Meetings which include detailed 
financial information and a comprehensive operational overview from the Chief Executive. The Chairman and the non-executive 
directors meet at least twice a year without the executive directors present and the senior independent director meets at least 
annually with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved for Board approval, including for example significant long term obligations 
such as capital investments, acquisitions and divestments above certain levels, the raising of new capital and entering into loan 
agreements. The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive.
Communications with shareholders
Communication with shareholders takes place through the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report. Additional 
information, including interim management statements and copies of other press releases, is published on the Company’s website. 
Presentations covering strategic issues as well as financial and operating performance were made to major shareholders through 
investor roadshows in the UK, USA and Continental Europe during the year. Laird PLC, within the limits imposed by the Listing 
Rules, enters into a dialogue with institutional shareholders to develop an understanding of their views and to communicate and 
explain the Company’s objectives. The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with shareholders and report to the Board 
following these meetings. The Board is kept up to date with investors’ views through the distribution of analysts’ and brokers’ notes. 
In addition, the Company’s stockbroker periodically contacts shareholders and provides non-attributable feedback which is reported 
to the Board. Following presentations to analysts of the interim and full year results, confidential exit polls are conducted by outside 
consultants and the results are reported to the Board. From time to time more extensive formal surveys on a non-attributable basis 
are commissioned.
The Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director are available for meetings with shareholders in the event that there 
are any concerns which cannot be addressed through management, or in connection with any significant change to the Company’s 
strategy, remuneration policy or governance arrangements. The Chairman has met with various institutional investors during the 
year, for discussions including issues of strategy, governance and remuneration. In particular he discussed the new Share Price 
Improvement Plan which was approved by shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting. 
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with both private investors and institutional 
shareholders and encourages them to attend. Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the 
directors informally after the meeting. The Chairman gives a formal report on the Company’s progress at the meeting. A copy of 
his statement is issued to the London Stock Exchange and is published on the Company’s website. All of the directors attended 
the AGM in 2008 and the chairmen of the various Board Committees were available to answer questions relating to their areas of 
responsibility. The number of proxy votes cast for, against or withheld on the resolutions are reported to the meeting and, following 
the meeting, are published on the Company’s website. Laird PLC    33   
Committees of the Board
The written Terms of Reference of the Committees are available on the Company’s website, from the Company on request and will 
be on display at the Annual General Meeting. Minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee members are all independent non-executive directors. The Chairman of the Committee is Mr A M Robb and 
the other members of the Committee during the year were Mr A J Reading and Dr W R Spivey. The Board ensures that at least 
one member has recent and relevant financial experience, currently Mr Robb, and it is satisfied that the Committee as a whole has 
sufficient financial, international and commercial experience to enable it to carry out its duties. The non-executive directors who are 
not members of the Audit Committee are also invited to attend meetings and frequently do so. The Chairman of the Board, the 
Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the external auditors are given notice 
of all meetings and may be invited to attend and speak at any meeting. The Committee and the external auditors met formally 
without any executive directors present once during the year. The Committee ensures that this happens at least once a year in order 
to discuss any issues or concerns from either party.
The Audit Committee, which met six times during the year, is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of 
the Company which are relied upon by the Board. The Audit Committee Terms of Reference (which are available on the Company’s 
website) set out its responsibilities and procedures. The Committee reviews the Group and Company’s financial statements prior 
to their publication with particular reference to significant financial reporting issues and judgements. During the year, the Annual 
Report and Accounts; the AGM and interim management statement; the Interim Report on the Results for the half year; the October 
interim management statement; the November trading update; and the December pre-close trading update were reviewed by the 
Committee before recommending them to the Board for approval. The Committee also received a formal report on litigation and 
claims twice during the year.
The Committee oversees the internal audit function and also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls. The 
Committee considers the scope and planning of internal financial audits and reviews the process for identifying and managing 
financial risk and the findings of those audits. Deloitte & Touche LLP , who provide global internal audit services under the direction 
of the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit, attended one Committee meeting during the year. The Director of Risk 
Management and Internal Audit briefed the Audit Committee three times on key internal audit matters and findings of internal audit 
investigations. He had the opportunity at each meeting to meet with the Audit Committee without any executive directors present 
and he met separately with the Chairman of the Audit Committee on three further occasions during the year.
The Committee reviews the Company’s procedure for handling allegations from whistleblowers as set out in the Company’s Business 
Ethics and Conduct Policy (which is on the Company’s website) and any whistleblowing events are brought to its attention. During 
the year, a review of the Company’s whistleblowing procedure has been carried out and a new independent telephone and internet 
provider has been appointed. This new service, which offers a relevant language service in all countries in which Laird operates, will 
be launched in March 2009. 
The appointment and terms of engagement of Ernst & Young LLP , the external auditor, including the proposed fee structure, were 
considered and the independence of the external auditors assessed. The Committee considered the scope and planning of the 
external financial audit and assessed the effectiveness of the audit process, including a report on the audit firm’s own internal quality 
control procedures. 
The Committee has reviewed Ernst & Young’s key policies for maintaining objectivity and independence, including the policy for the 
rotation of audit partners which requires a new lead audit partner to be appointed every five years.
The Committee also recommends for Board approval a policy for non-audit services, particularly in cases where their opinion is 
required by statute such as circulars to shareholders, so as to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the 
external auditors’ independence or objectivity. This policy prohibits the use of the external audit firm for certain specified matters and 
the hiring of its former employees. There are often sound commercial and practical reasons, including confidentiality, for using Ernst 
& Young LLP to provide non-audit services. During the year, Ernst & Young LLP provided tax planning and compliance advice and 
regulatory compliance work. Where applicable, competitive quotes are obtained. Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in 
note 6 on page 61. 
The Committee has authority to seek any information it requires from any officer or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiary 
undertakings. It believes that it has received sufficient, reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its 
responsibilities during the year. The Audit Committee can take such independent professional advice as it considers necessary. 
The Committee recommends to the shareholders, through the Board, the re-election of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditors 
at the Annual General Meeting and the authority for the fixing of their remuneration. 
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman and at least two non-executive directors. It is chaired by Mr N J Keen and 
comprised Mr A J Reading and Sir Christopher Hum. The Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, regularly reviews 
the structure, size and composition (including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience) required of the Board and makes 
recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes. At least annually the Committee reviews the performance of the Chief 
Executive and reports to the Board. It is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the 
Board having regard to the overall skills balance and composition of the Board. It reviews and advises upon succession planning and 
takes into account the need to refresh the Board ensuring that changes to the Board’s composition can be managed without undue 
disruption. The Committee is assisted by external search consultancies in identifying suitable candidates. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr A J Reading. Currently comprising the Chairman, Mr N J Keen, and all the other 
non-executive directors, it met eight times in 2008 and is responsible for recommending to the Board the Company’s general policy 
on remuneration and in particular to determine the remuneration and benefits of the executive directors and the grant of all options  34    Laird PLC
Corporate governance report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2008
and award of shares under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Scheme and the Share Price Improvement Plan. In accordance 
with the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Board is not the chairman of the Committee. The 
Remuneration Committee, excluding the Chairman, determines the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment. 
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings and, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends the meetings. In 
normal circumstances, the Chief Executive is consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive directors 
and employees. Further details on the Remuneration Committee are to be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 39. 
Administration Committee
The Administration Committee of the Board consists of any two or more directors and deals with items of a routine and 
administrative nature. 
Performance of the Board
During the last twelve months the Board has conducted a self-evaluation assessment of itself and its committees. Following 
completion of questionnaires by all directors, the Chairman led discussions to consider the Board’s “behaviours” and “processes”. 
Certain areas were identified for improvement or action. The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees also considered their 
own performance and reported to the Board thereon. The performance of individual directors has been considered by the Chairman 
and Chief Executive in discussion with other non-executive directors. The non-executive directors have considered the performance 
of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors. The Chairman and Chief Executive have considered the 
performance of the executive directors. 
Board attendance
The Board had nine meetings during 2008. All of the directors attended all of the Meetings. Whenever a director is unable to attend a 
meeting, the director, if possible, consults with the Chairman prior to the Meeting and is briefed by the Chairman after the Meeting.
There were six Audit Committee meetings, eight Remuneration Committee Meetings and one Nominations Committee Meeting 
during the year, at all of which there was full attendance.
Internal control
Laird PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with businesses now primarily located overseas, following the sale of Laird 
Security Systems in April 2007. These activities are organised as subsidiary companies where the management of these companies 
are appointed to manage within the framework established by the Laird PLC Board, as well as complying with local statutory and 
regulatory requirements. Overall responsibility for the Group’s systems of internal control and reviewing their effectiveness lies with the 
Laird PLC Board. During the year a review was carried out which assessed the adequacy of those systems. Primary responsibility 
for systems of internal control rests with the managers of the subsidiaries. Laird PLC’s executive directors are responsible for 
implementing Group policy and for monitoring the businesses and performance of operating companies and units and reporting to 
the Board thereon. 
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and complies with 
the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is regularly reviewed by the Board. This process, which has been 
enhanced this year to improve risk assessment and assurance, has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date the 
accounts were approved by the Board. The acquisition during that period was subject to due diligence prior to its purchase and are 
required to adopt the Group’s procedures thereafter. The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives as well as safeguarding the Group’s assets. These systems can only provide 
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Group operating rules are issued each year to the managers of subsidiaries setting out their responsibilities and the procedures to be 
followed to agree their commercial and financial objectives. These rules require approval for specific transactions and call for accurate 
and relevant financial information to be delivered on a timely basis. The ability to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting of 
management information and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
Subsidiaries submit their budgets annually to Laird PLC’s executive directors. In addition, through a risk and controls self-assessment 
process, they are required to identify the key risk and control issues that their businesses face and set out the strategies they will 
employ to manage them. The issues raised by the subsidiaries are reviewed by the Board as part of the annual risk review process. 
This process is supplemented by papers submitted to the Board by the executive directors throughout the year and by meetings from 
time to time between the Board and the management of the subsidiaries, some of which take place at the premises of the operating 
companies. The Chief Executive presents the Group’s business objectives which are approved by the Board, and the Board also 
addresses those risks which affect Laird as a whole. The Board instigates further reports and investigations as it considers necessary.
Risk management strategy, risk performance monitoring and risk oversight at Group level for all areas including operational, 
environmental and health and safety risk rests with the Laird Risk Management Group (‘‘RMG’’). The RMG is chaired by the Group 
Chief Executive and reports to the Board. Co-ordination of risk identification and review and actions in all areas below corporate level 
and improvements in controls and operational risk management are driven by the Laird Technologies Risk Management Committee 
(“RMC”), chaired by the President of one of Laird Technologies’ business divisions, with representation for all divisions and Laird 
Technologies functions. The RMC and RMG both met three times during the year. The Director of Risk Management and Internal 
Audit and the Chairman of the RMC are members of both committees, reinforcing consistency and linking between Laird’s risk 
management strategy and its implementation in all countries. Further details on the RMG and RMC are set out in the Corporate 
social responsibility report on pages 35 to 38.
As noted above, the Audit Committee reviews the Group and Company’s financial statements. It also has responsibility for reviewing 
the process for identifying and managing financial risk and for reviewing the internal financial controls and considers the scope 
and planning of internal and external audits. It reviews reports on internal financial control including reports by the Director of Risk 
Management and Internal Audit and the Finance Director and the results from internal financial audits. As part of their audit, the 
external auditors, to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit opinion, review and test the systems of internal control 
and the data contained in the accounts, including an independent and objective review of the approach of management to the 
reporting of the operating results and financial condition. Laird PLC    35   
Corporate social responsibility
for the year to 31 December 2008
Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings (“the Group”) involves a wide community of stakeholders, including investors, employees, 
customers, suppliers and local communities. During the year the Group’s membership of the FTSE4Good UK Index, a financial 
index series that is designed to identify and facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility 
standards, was renewed. 
Product Stewardship
The Group designs and supplies innovative, value-added products that advance performance and protection across the electronics 
market, improving the quality of life for people who use them. As a forward-thinking business, Laird PLC recognises the need to 
behave as a good corporate citizen and pursue environmentally-conscious design and manufacturing practices, via various strategies 
including maximising resource productivity and minimising energy intensity.
Laird Technologies further demonstrated its commitment to this philosophy in 2008. Within the Handset Metals unit all metals 
are recyclable and 100 per cent of metal process scrap is recycled. In addition, in-house technology is employed to optimise the 
strength of the metals, reducing the amount required, thus making products lighter, which in turn reduces raw material use.
Laird Technologies’ environmentally-friendly product design strategies have delivered Beryllium-free Recyclable Clean Copper™ 
gaskets, which alleviate any environmental, safety and segregation concerns associated with the traditional use and recycling of 
Beryllium-based copper alloys. Laird Technologies also manufactures a variety of EcoGreen™ gap filler and insulator products which 
offer a halogen-free option with uncompromised EMI shielding effectiveness and halogen-free casings for signal integrity products.
Laird Technologies actively develops products which encourage responsible energy use, including thermal management products for 
customers working with less energy-intensive LED lighting. 
Business Ethics
The Group believes that high standards of business ethics are critical in today’s business world and therefore places high priority 
on compliance with all legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance of high ethical standards, within each of the 
territories and jurisdictions in which it conducts its business.
The Group commits to conducting itself, and expects all employees to conduct themselves, in an honest, ethical manner in all 
dealings on its behalf and to behave professionally and with integrity and fairness. The Group applies these same standards to all 
business dealings with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Group’s policy is that businesses should compete enthusiastically and fairly in the marketplace and must comply with the 
relevant competition laws of each country in which it operates.
A copy of the Group’s Business Ethics and Conduct Policy statement is available on the Company’s website or from the Company 
on request.
The Group is upgrading its whistle blowing arrangements to utilise an independent telephone and internet provider which offers 
a relevant language service in all countries in which Laird operates. This service will be launched in March 2009.
Human Rights
The International Labour Organisation, a tripartite UN agency bringing together governments, employers and workers of its member 
states in common action to promote decent working conditions throughout the world, has identified eight Core Conventions as 
being fundamental to the rights of human beings at work. These Core Conventions cover: commitment to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining, equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value, the abolition of forced labour, 
the elimination of discrimination on grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, and the 
abolition of child labour. The Group has expressed its support for the International Labour Organisation eight Core Conventions and 
has stated its commitment to the principles within these conventions. 
A copy of the Group’s Employment and Human Rights policy statement is available on the Company’s website or from the Company 
on request.
Employee development and communication
The Group recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its employees. Consultation is 
encouraged at local level and performance and development reviews reinforce the link between business goals, an employee’s 
contribution and his/her remuneration. During the year a leadership assessment tool was implemented for relevant appointed and/or 
promoted candidates, with the programme to be expanded in 2009. A Laird Technologies’ University programme, in partnership with 
Washington University’s Olin School of Business, was also launched with its aim being to educate and train employees in support of 
their professional growth.
The Group communicates regularly with its employees, including information on key events within the business and charity 
and community involvement and employee achievements. During the year Laird Technologies conducted a review of employee 
communication channels, implemented global monthly site meetings within a structured format, produced quarterly communications 
videos and commenced the re-development of an employee intranet website.
Electronic Industry Code of Conduct
The Group is committed to ensuring that its supply base complies with the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC), and has 
therefore implemented these requirements into its business systems and continues to audit and work with its suppliers to ensure 
compliance in 2009. The EICC, a code of best practice adopted and implemented by some of the world’s major electronics brands 
and their suppliers, sets forth performance, compliance, auditing and reporting guidelines across five areas of social responsibility:
• Labour
• Health and Safety
• Environmental
• Management Systems
• Ethics 36    Laird PLC
Corporate social responsibility (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2008
Continuous Improvement
The Group continued to see gains in its manufacturing processes, product quality and cost reductions through its Six Sigma 
CIP (Continuous Improvement Process) programme during 2008. The combined Six Sigma and CIP approach has established a 
foundation for best practice across the Group for problem solving and since its inception in 2005 has delivered solid results year on 
year. With a well established system and infrastructure in place, the Group will continue to expand and broaden the initiative across 
all of its facilities to support its strategies and strengthen its capabilities. 
Risk Management
In 2008, the new risk management framework was embedded across the Group. Under this framework, delivery of improvements in 
controls and operational risk management, including health, safety and environment initiatives, are driven by the Laird Technologies 
Risk Management Committee (“RMC”), chaired by the President of one of Laird Technologies’ business divisions and with senior 
representatives of all divisions and key corporate functions. Risk management strategy, risk performance monitoring and oversight at 
corporate level rests with the Laird Risk Management Group (“RMG”), to which the RMC reports. The revised RMG is chaired by the 
Laird PLC Chief Executive and reports to the Board. The RMC and RMG each meet at least two times a year.
Health, Safety and Environmental Policy 
A copy of the Group’s Health, Safety and Environmental Policy statement is available on the Company’s website or from the 
Company on request.
The Group is committed to pursuing high standards of environmental performance including the maintenance of safe and healthy 
working environments and maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to stimulate continuous 
improvement and promote and develop good health, safety and environmental practices. 
2008 has seen further progress in overall performance in the areas of Health, Safety and Environmental management, driven by 
the continuation of the Group’s ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 integrated Health, Safety and Environmental management system 
accreditation programme; a joint standard to which fifteen Laird Technologies facilities are certified, all of which successfully 
completed re-certification or surveillance audits during the year. A further two main facilities are on schedule to achieve Integrated 
Systems certification in 2009. This is in addition to the majority of our main manufacturing facilities being ISO 9000 and ISO 9001 
certified. 
Alongside these efforts, a strategy has been developed for 2009 to focus on energy and greenhouse gas reduction initiatives in the 
Group’s largest plants globally, which will involve the sharing of strategies and best practice.  Experience of this initiative will then 
allow the programme to be launched at all other sites at the end of 2009.
The results of the health, safety and environmental audits and their follow up are monitored by the RMC. Health, safety and 
environmental training is provided, and reinforced via refresher courses where necessary, to designated employees and focuses on 
the perceived risk within each business. 
Health and Safety Management
As previously advised, due to the global economic downturn, worldwide employee headcount for the Group’s operations decreased 
from c.14,500 at the end of 2007, to 11,189 at the end of 2008. The average number of Group employees in 2008 was 12,093 
(2007, 12,297).
The Group records near misses, minor and reportable accidents, based on a uniform reporting standard, at all facilities along with 
total hours worked which together provides an aggregate annualised minor/reportable accident rate per 100 employees.
In 2008, total reportable accident rates for the Group decreased 50% to 0.2/100 employees vs. 0.4/100 employees in 2007, despite 
an 18% increase in total hours worked. Minor accident rates also decreased 50% to 0.4/100 employees. 
14,000
2007
12,000
10,000
2008
AVERAGE EMPLOYEE
HEADCOUNT
0.5
2007
0.4
0.2
0.1
0.3
0
2008
REPORTABLE ACCIDENTS
PER 100 EMPLOYEES Laird PLC    37   
2008 Health and Safety achievements
• Laird Technologies’ facility in St Louis, USA, reduced minor workplace accident rates by 60% in 2008 vs. 2007 and recorded zero 
reportable accidents, on working hours up 29%.
• Laird Technologies’ Kunshan, China facility reduced total workplace accident rates by 33% from 0.9/100 employees in 2007 to 
0.6/100 employees in 2008, on an increase in working hours of 6%.
• Laird Technologies’ facility in the Czech Republic reduced minor workplace accident rates by 77% and recorded zero reportable 
accidents in 2008 vs. 2007, on working hours down 4%.
• Laird Technologies’ Sweden maintained an exemplary health and safety record recording zero accidents for the third year in a row.
• Laird Technologies Beijing, China management provided reflective armbands for use by all staff when walking or cycling to and 
from work at night to increase their visibility. Following the success of this initiative, the Group will launch a scheme to provide 
reflective armbands to all employees who commute outside daylight hours in 2009.
                    
Laird Technologies‘ Beijing, China employees have 
all been given reﬂ ective armbands to wear when 
travelling to and from work at night 
Environmental Management
Detailed policies are developed, implemented and regularly reviewed by Laird Technologies and its businesses to reflect their specific 
trading activities and the associated risks. The Group’s minimum requirements are for its businesses to comply with local legislation 
and to operate continuous improvement programmes, to ensure that efficient use is made of all resources, including energy, water 
and raw materials, that emissions are restricted to within best practice levels, waste is minimised and accidents are prevented 
through comprehensive training.
The Group undertakes a rolling programme of environmental audits covering all of its manufacturing sites. The formalisation 
of environmental management systems via the certified Environmental and Health and Safety standards promotes continuous 
improvement and allows consistent monitoring of energy source reduction, waste treatment and the re-use and reclamation of 
natural resources. 
The Group’s performance in these areas showed improvement in 2008; CO2 emissions for the Group decreased by 5% to 64,656 
(total kilograms per £1m of sales) with energy consumption down 4% to 174,164 (total KwH per £1m of sales). Waste to landfill 
levels remained unchanged at 1,114 kilograms (total waste to landfill per £1m of sales). Data for 2007 has been updated from that 
shown in the 2007 Report and Accounts.
As demonstration of its commitment to continuous improvement in energy/resource use, the Group has participated in the last three 
annual Information Requests by the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent non-profit organisation which acts as an intermediary 
between shareholders and corporations on all climate change related issues, providing primary climate change data from the world’s 
largest corporations to the global marketplace.
RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances)
RoHS is European Community Regulation 2002/95/EC which came into force on 1 July 2006. The Directive restricts the use 
of six substances in electronic products: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs) and 
polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs). As part of the Group’s Restricted Substance Management Plan, Laird Technologies in 
Shenzhen, China, utilises an in-house RoHS testing facility to ensure product compliance. This facility is testimony to the Group’s 
proactive approach to RoHS compliance, which is driven by a plan implemented at all manufacturing locations to manage processes 
and procedures associated with the Directive and other customer-specific restricted substance product requirements. The Shenzhen 
RoHS laboratory attained international CNAS professional certification to ISO 17025 standards in 2008. Laird Technologies has also 
invested in in-house RoHS testing laboratories in Kunshan, China, along with screening equipment in Tianjin, China and Cleveland, 
USA, to enable internally verified RoHS and restricted substance product compliance. 
REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances)
REACH is a European Community Regulation on chemicals and their safe use (EC 1907/2006) which came into force on 1 June 
2007 and will be phased in over an eleven year period.  The Group is committed to being proactive in the addressing of REACH 
compliance and will support implementation of the regulation as required. Laird Technologies has completed a REACH baseline 
applicability assessment involving the classification and review of all products and preparations and the identification and survey of 
applicable suppliers in the EU and internationally. At this time all applicable suppliers either have a REACH programme in place or 
acknowledge their intent to comply. 38    Laird PLC
Corporate social responsibility (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2008
2008 Environmental achievements
• Laird Technologies San Marcos, USA achieved a cost saving of approximately $6,000 by installing energy saving lights throughout 
the facility.
• Laird Technologies’ Chennai, India facility received a “Nokia Quality Award” in June in recognition of their contribution to the “Tray 
Reuse Project”, an initiative to recycle all trays, boxes and pallets within the Nokia Special Economic Zone.
• Laird Technologies’ facility in St. Louis, USA implemented an innovative “leased” ion exchange waste treatment process to 
internally treat and clean nickel containing waste water, resulting in a net saving of $5,490 by eliminating the costs and liabilities of 
off-site disposal.
• Laird Technologies’ facility in the Czech Republic realised an energy saving of $56,000 by installing regulated air pressure valves 
on all production line equipment.
• Laird Technologies’ Shanghai, China facility implemented two projects in 2008 to reduce energy consumption and cost: a 
Damp Curtain Ventilator Cooling System was installed in a stamping workshop instead of air conditioning and an efficient and 
energy-saving frequency conversion control system for air compressors was implemented. 
• Laird Technologies’ Shanghai, China EMI facility was selected to participate in the EICC/GeSI Joint Audit Pilot Program by several 
major customers in May. The site successfully completed the associated comprehensive CSR audit process, achieving a score 
of 86%.
Charitable Donations and Community Affairs
The well-being of the communities in which the Group operates is important to its long term development and success. 
During the year the Group gave £71,898 to charities (2007, £35,000). 
Examples of charitable initiatives during the year were:
• In recognition of the contributions made by more than 5,000 individual employees to the Sichuan earthquake recovery efforts in 
China last year, and respect for those affected, Laird Technologies donated £54,263 to registered charities leading relief efforts.
• Laird gave £4,880 to UK charities including Marie Curie Cancer Care, Glasgow Disabled Scouts and Phab.
• Continued support through the donation of funds to The Little Bit Foundation in St Louis, USA, a non-profit organisation which 
supplies books, coats, shoes and outerwear to students in economically disadvantaged schools in the St Louis area.
• Endowment scholarship programme at the University of Missouri-Columbia to provide tuition to an undergraduate engineering 
student, with the intention to make continued donations in future years to build up an endowment to provide full scholarship to 
a student.
• Support of local food banks with employee food contributions and employee participation in blood donation drives in 
Schaumburg, USA and charitable donations to local communities in Shanghai, China.
• Monetary donations to Youth in Need in the USA in support of child welfare efforts.
• Donations to a local lagoon conservancy in San Marcos, USA and support of local high school sport programmes and donations 
to a local Technology High School in Cleveland, USA, to help fund a job fair and car park improvements. Laird PLC    39   
Directors’ remuneration report
for the year to 31 December 2008
The Directors’ remuneration report sets out the Company’s policy on the remuneration of executive and non-executive directors 
together with details of directors’ remuneration packages and service contracts.
The Remuneration Committee, which met eight times during the year, is responsible for recommending to the Board the Company’s 
general policy on remuneration and in particular determining the remuneration packages of the Chairman and the executive directors, 
and the grant of all options and awards of shares. The Chairman does not attend discussions on his own remuneration.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are appointed by the Board and the membership of the Committee is reviewed at 
least annually. The Chairman of the Committee is appointed by the Board and cannot be the Chairman of the Board. The Chief 
Executive is given notice of all meetings and, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends the meetings. The Chief 
Executive may request that he attends and speaks at Committee meetings. In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive will
be consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive directors and employees. The written Terms
of Reference are available on the Company’s website and from the Company on request. They will also be on display at the
Annual General Meeting. The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr A J Reading, comprises the Chairman, Mr N J Keen, and
Sir Christopher Hum, Professor Michael Kelly, Mr A M Robb and Dr W R Spivey, all independent non-executive directors. Mr Keen
is a member of the Committee because the Board considers it essential that the Chairman be involved in setting remuneration policy. 
Mr D J L Hudson, the Company Secretary, acts as Secretary to the Committee. The Board, as a whole, is responsible for setting the 
remuneration of the non-executive directors. 
The Remuneration Committee has during the past year retained Watson Wyatt Limited to provide independent external professional 
advice. Watson Wyatt Limited also provide pension actuarial services to Laird PLC and to the Trustees of two of the Laird pension 
schemes. The Remuneration Committee has also sought the views of the Chief Executive, Mr P J Hill, during the year. 
Remuneration Policy
The Remuneration Committee has established a policy on the remuneration of executive directors and the Board has established a 
policy for the non-executive directors.
Executive Directors 
The current policy for providing remuneration for the executive directors is to have an incentive driven remuneration package which 
promotes the alignment of interests of executive directors and shareholders. That policy is based upon the following principles:
• the need to link remuneration to achieving strategic objectives and to sustainable long-term corporate success having due regard 
to environmental, social and governance issues;
• the reward opportunity offered to executive directors should be sufficiently competitive to recruit and retain management of the 
appropriate calibre and experience; and
• the need to provide a total compensation package which reflects the international complexity of Laird’s operations.
The executive directors receive base salary, annual performance awards up to a maximum percentage of base salary, pensions 
and other benefits, and long term performance awards. Base salaries, benefits and performance awards of the executive directors 
are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee. Base salaries are determined with reference to an appropriate comparator 
group of companies which is reviewed annually. Benefits comprise the provision of a car or car allowance, life, disability and health 
insurance, participation in the annual performance scheme and membership of a pension scheme. Neither performance incentive 
awards nor benefits in kind are pensionable.
Performance linked incentives are a key component of the total remuneration package. Since 2003, the Remuneration Committee 
has granted options and awards under the Company’s executive share option plans and Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”). A 
summary of these arrangements is set out below. The Committee believes that a combination of Share Option Plans and the LTIP 
for senior executives is the most appropriate way of providing the incentive to create substantial improvement in the Company’s 
performance in a way that aligns the interests of executives and shareholders.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting shareholders approved a share price improvement plan, in which any executive directors can 
participate, aimed at rewarding exceptional performance over a five year period. Further details are set out on page 44. 
Service Agreements
Each of the executive directors has a service agreement. Messrs Hill and Silver’s service agreements are dated 8 March 2004.
Mr Rapp’s service agreement is dated 31 December 2004. In line with the Company’s policy, the executive directors’ service 
agreements are not for a fixed term and provide for twelve months’ written notice of termination from either party. Mr Rapp’s service 
agreement is with Laird Technologies, Inc. and he has a separate letter dated 7 March 2008 from the Company in respect of his 
appointment as an executive director. In 2006, the terms of employment for the executive directors in the UK were amended to 
change the contractual retirement date from age 60 to age 65 to comply with the Employment Equality (Age) Regulations 2006 which 
came into force in the UK on 1 October 2006. The executives may still retire at age 60 with their retirement benefits unchanged from 
the previous arrangements. The Company’s policy on termination is to comply with the contractual terms and conditions set out in 
the service agreement. The Company may, at its election, make a payment in lieu of notice. The payment would be calculated as the 
total of the director’s base salary plus the value of his benefits, in each case by reference to the period of the unexpired notice
of termination. 
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts. Letters of Appointment provide for a review every three years and the 
rotation provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association. 40    Laird PLC
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2008
Shareholding Guidelines
Shareholding guidelines, requiring executive directors to retain, as shares, all of the post tax gains from the vesting of Long Term 
Incentive Plan awards and exercise of existing, or future, executive share options, until they have acquired a shareholding equal in 
value to their base salaries, were introduced in 2003. At 31 December 2008, Messrs Hill, Silver and Rapp owned shares equivalent 
to a multiple of 0.46 (2007, 1.46), 1.06 (2007, 2.97) and 0.27 (2007, 0.98) of their base salaries respectively. During the year, all three 
directors increased their shareholdings (see page 30).
Non-Executive Directors
Laird’s policy is to establish and maintain a body of non-executive directors with a breadth of international skills and experience that 
is relevant to Laird’s global businesses. In this context, it is the Board’s policy for the non-executive directors to be paid a level of fee 
that reflects market conditions and is sufficient to attract individuals with appropriate knowledge and experience.
Executive Directors’ Remuneration
Emoluments of executive directors showing breakdown between base pay, benefits-in-kind, performance related remuneration and 
cash in lieu of pension:
Salaries and fees Benefits
Performance 
Related 
Remuneration
Cash in lieu 
of pension* Total
 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
 
P J Hill 609 595 14 16 61 554 122 – 806 1,165
M L Rapp 354 275 14 13 65 330 106 81 539 699
J C Silver 328 313 12 12 34 291 131 125 505 741
* See page 39
Mr Hill was a non-executive director of Meggitt plc and a non-executive board member of UK Trade & Investment during the year. 
He was entitled to retain the fees of £45,000 and £4,800 respectively (2007, £41,000 and £4,800 respectively), which were paid in 
addition to the above.
 Mr Rapp was a non-executive director of Kionix,  Inc during the year and he was entitled to retain fees of £16, 173 (2007, £14,993) 
paid in addition to the above.
Mr Silver was a non-executive director of INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc during the year and he was entitled to retain fees of 
£19,000 (2007, £7,500 part year only) paid in addition to the above.
Executive directors’ salaries were reviewed on 1 July 2008, with those of Messrs Rapp and Silver being increased by 10% and 5% 
respectively. Mr Hill’s salary was not increased, at his request. The Remuneration Committee took account of the individuals’ and the 
Company’s performance, as well as an analysis prepared by Watson Wyatt of salaries and compensation of both a comparator group 
and a wider spread of companies. The increasing complexity and breadth of Laird’s operations and, in the case of Mr Rapp, his 
appointment as Managing Director of Laird PLC with effect from 31 March 2008 as well as the increased scale of Laird Technologies’ 
business and operations were also considered. Mr Rapp’s base, performance and pension related compensation is denominated in 
US dollars and the figures above are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for each year. Increases in base salary in 
2008 for management level employees in Laird PLC and Laird Technologies were generally in the range of 3% to 10%, reflecting the 
growth in the scale and complexity of the business. Greater increases were awarded to certain individuals as a result of promotions 
or significant increases in the scale or geographic scope of their responsibilities.
Annual Performance Incentive Awards
The awards in 2008 for the executive directors were determined by the Remuneration Committee. For the UK executive directors, 
up to a maximum of 100% of base salary could be earned for exceptional performance and for Mr Rapp the maximum was 125% 
weighted 50% to Laird Technologies and 50% to Laird PLC. The award criteria established for 2008 were based on targets in 
respect of annual profits and cash generation, and the achievement of criteria designed to assess performance against a number 
of key, measurable strategic objectives for the Company, including those relating to environmental and social and corporate 
responsibility issues. The actual criteria used are not disclosed for reasons of commercial sensitivity.
Actual awards as a percentage of base salary in respect of 2008 for Messrs Hill, Rapp and Silver were 10%, 17% and 10% respectively. 
These took into account the underlying financial performance and the strategic development of both Laird PLC and of its operating 
division, Laird Technologies. No awards were made in respect of annual profits targets, with awards at the lower end of the scale being 
made in respect of certain cash generation metrics and the partial achievement of measurable strategic objectives. In addition, the 
Remuneration Committee considered the speed and extent to which management acted to reduce costs when customer demand 
dropped off significantly towards the end of the year. Actual awards in respect of 2007 were 91%, 115% and 91% respectively.
Pensions
Mr Rapp, who is based in the USA, is a member of an employee managed defined contribution programme to which Laird 
Technologies, Inc. makes a 50% match of the member’s contributions up to 6% of gross earnings, subject to a cap. The amount 
paid in by Laird Technologies in 2008 was £3,747. In addition, Mr Rapp receives a taxable cash payment of 30% of base salary in 
lieu of any additional pension. 
Messrs Hill and Silver are members of a UK Group contributory defined benefits scheme. The main benefits are: on pension 
retirement at age sixty, a maximum pension of two thirds final salary (excluding bonuses and other benefits) dependent on service; 
on death in retirement, a dependant’s pension of 60% of the member’s pension; on death in service, a lump sum of four times salary 
and a dependant’s pension of 20% of salary or 60% of the member’s expected pension, if higher. Pensions in payment for Messrs 
Hill and Silver will increase by the lesser of the increase in the retail price index or 8.5% per annum compound. Transfer values 
provided on leaving service do not include any allowances for discretionary benefits. Laird PLC    41   
Mr Hill’s benefits in the defined benefits scheme are subject to an earnings cap. They are supplemented by an unfunded arrangement 
to maintain the same level of benefits as if the earnings cap did not apply. With effect from 1 July 2008, Mr Hill receives a taxable 
salary supplement of 40% of base salary in lieu of future accrual of the unfunded arrangement.
Following the introduction of the A Day legislation in April 2006, Mr Silver’s pension has ceased to accrue within the defined benefits 
scheme. In light of the Company’s previous pension commitment to Mr Silver, he now receives a taxable salary supplement of 40% 
of base salary in lieu of future pension accrual under the pension scheme. 
These payments in respect of Messrs Hill and Silver are expected to be cost neutral for the Company and will reduce future pension 
risks for the Company. Payments in lieu of pension provision are excluded from the calculation of bonus entitlements and share 
scheme awards. They are not included in the calculations below.
Age at
31.12.08
Transfer
value of
accrued
pension
at 31.12.07
Directors’
Contributions
in 2008
Service at
31.12.08
Accrued
deferred
pension at
31.12.08*
Increase
in deferred
pension
during
the year
Increase
in accrued
pension
during the 
year (net
of inflation)
Transfer
value of
accrued
pension at
31.12.08
Change
in transfer
value over
the year**
£000 £000 (yrs) £000p.a. £000 £000 £000 £000
          
P J Hill 56 2,255 6 7 141 17 10 3,306 1,045
J C Silver 51 2,009 Nil 22 141 7 0 2,759 750
* payable at Normal Retirement Date
** after deduction of directors’ contributions
As required by new regulations introduced during the year, the Trustees of the scheme revised the transfer value basis. The change 
in transfer value shown above reflects the change in the basis used to calculate the value, as well as changes in financial conditions 
and increases to the accrued pension over the year.
Mr Silver ceased to accrue further pension benefits from 6 April 2006, however, his benefits accrued at that date remain linked to any 
growth in his pensionable pay. 
Share Plans
The Company currently operates three share incentive schemes for the executive directors, the Long Term Incentive Plan, Share 
Options and the Share Price Improvement Plan, as the Remuneration Committee believes that this is the most appropriate way 
of providing the incentive to create substantial improvement in the Company’s performance in a way that aligns the interests of 
executives and shareholders.
a)  Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
The LTIP involves the award of shares which only vest after the achievement of demanding performance targets measured over 
three years. Executives are eligible for annual awards of shares. The maximum annual award value under the LTIP is one times base 
salary. In setting the level of awards the Remuneration Committee takes into account options granted to executives under the 2003 
executive share option plans in the same financial year.
The extent to which awards granted under the LTIP in 2008 vest will be determined by reference to the Company’s total shareholder 
return relative to FTSE 250 companies (excluding investment trusts) and the following targets will apply:
Total Shareholder Return 
Performance Level
Amount of Award Vesting
%
Upper Quartile
Median to Upper Quartile
Below Median
Full vesting
Pro rata between 30% and full vesting
Nil
These performance conditions will be measured only over a single three year period. There is no provision for retesting. In addition, 
no awards will vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Company’s 
underlying financial performance.
The LTIP may use either market purchased shares or new issue shares, provided that any new shares issued will count against the 
overall dilution limit. Awards under the plan in 2003 to 2008 inclusive took the form of nil cost options or conditional awards (in order 
to comply with US tax legislation), to be satisfied by shares from the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”) purchased in the 
market. Further details on the Trust are on page 45. 
The awards made in 2005 vested on 18 March 2008. The amount of award vesting, as determined by the total shareholder return 
performance level, was 85.7% and the balance of the awards lapsed. The awards made in 2006 lapsed at the end of 2008 as the 
performance criterion for total shareholder return to 31 December 2008 was not met.
The awards in 2008 were made at one times base salary on 17 March 2008 and were calculated with reference to a share price of 
500p being the higher of the closing mid-market price on 14 March and 17 March 2008. They will, apart from Mr Rapp’s awards, 
be exercisable between 17 March 2011 and 17 March 2013, to the extent to which the performance criteria are met. In accordance 
with US requirements, Mr Rapp’s award will vest automatically on 17 March 2011 if the performance criteria have been met. In 
accordance with the rules of the LTIP, outstanding awards may become exercisable before their normal vesting date in the event of a 
change of control of the Company. 42    Laird PLC
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2008
The Remuneration Committee made these awards at one times base salary as it considered that this, together with awards under 
the Share Option Schemes described below, should be at this level to promote the interests of executives and shareholders in the 
delivery of above market growth in shareholder value in future years.
The amount charged to the income statement during the year in respect of the LTIP granted to the executive directors was £756,000 
(2007, £625,000). The fair value for accounting purposes was calculated as 48.3 per cent of the face value of the awards made in 
2008.
The directors’ interests in the LTIP are as follows:
1.1.08
Awards
in 2008
Vested/ 
Exercised
in 2008
Lapsed
 in 2008 31.12.08
      
P J Hill 383,319 121,800 139,964 145,355 219,800
M L Rapp 194,902 59,000 73,618 76,284 104,000
J C Silver 200,902 64,000 73,618 76,284 115,000
On 18 March 2008, Messrs Hill and Silver exercised 139,964 and 73,618 nil cost options respectively granted in March 2005. The 
conditional award granted to Mr Rapp in March 2005 vested on 18 March 2008 as to 73,618 shares. Mr Hill sold 107,530 shares 
and retained the balance; Mr Silver sold 55,617 shares and retained the balance; and Mr Rapp sold 52,637 and retained the balance. 
The market price at the time of exercise was 494.01p and the notional gains were £691,438, £363,682 and £363,682 for Messrs 
Hill, Silver and Rapp respectively (2007, £922,434 and £610,715 for Messrs Hill and Silver respectively). Under the terms of the LTIP, 
unlike the Share Options described below which are exercisable up to seven years from the date of vesting, the nil cost options 
under the LTIP are only exercisable up to two years from the date of vesting; and in Mr Rapp’s case his awards vest automatically 
on the three year anniversary, subject to performance conditions being met. 
The breakdown of outstanding awards are:
Date of Grant
Number of nil cost 
options/conditional 
awards as at 
31 December
2008 Exercise period
 
P J Hill 15.5.07 98,00015.5.10-15.5.12
 17.3.08 121,80017.3.11-17.3.13
 
219,800
 
M L Rapp 15.5.07 45,000 15.5.10*
 17.3.08 59,000  17.3.11*
 
104,000
 
J C Silver 15.5.07 51,00015.5.10-15.5.12
 17.3.08 64,00017.3.11-17.3.13
 
115,000
 
* Mr Rapp’s conditional awards vest automatically, in order to comply with US tax legislation.
b)  Share Options
The executive directors have outstanding options under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme and the 2003 Executive Share 
Option Plan (No.1). The 1994 scheme was replaced by new share option schemes approved by shareholders at the 2003 Annual 
General Meeting. Since May 2001 the basis for calculation of the maximum grant of options to executive directors and other 
employees is the equivalent of shares with a market value at the time of grant of up to one times salary in any one year and up to 
two times salary in special circumstances, such as the recruitment or promotion to a key management position. 
1994 Share Option Scheme
The 1994 scheme granted options over new shares to be issued at the time of exercise (and also over existing shares). The exercise 
of options under the 1994 scheme is dependent upon the attainment of performance criteria set by the Remuneration Committee. 
The scheme permitted the grant of both approved and unapproved options. Options were granted at the closing middle market price 
on the last dealing day prior to grant and are exercisable after three years but not more than ten years from the date of grant.
The performance criteria set by the Remuneration Committee for grants made in 2002, the last year in which options were granted 
under this Scheme, is that the increase in earnings per share must not be less than the increase in the rate of United Kingdom 
Retail Price Inflation plus an average of 3% per annum over a three year period. In 2006 the Committee reviewed the performance 
conditions and agreed that the earnings per share target had been met and that there had been a significant and sustained 
improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company. Laird PLC    43   
 1.1.08
Exercised/
Lapsed
in 2008 31.12.08
    
P J Hill 236,357 – 236,357
M L Rapp –– –
J C Silver 72,114 – 72,114
The 2003 Executive Share Option Plans
There are two plans which were approved by shareholders in 2003. One plan permits the grant of options approved by Her Majesty’s 
Revenue and Customs to be made to individuals who may be eligible for capital gains tax relief on the exercise of options; otherwise 
both plans are identical in all material respects. The value of shares under options granted to an executive in any financial year are 
limited, to one times base salary, unless there are exceptional circumstances (e.g. a high level recruitment), in which case the limit is 
twice base salary. 
When granting options, the Remuneration Committee takes into account both the level of awards made to executives under the new 
LTIP and the prevailing share price.
The performance criteria used since 2003 has been to measure the increase in earnings per share against the rate of UK retail 
price inflation plus a specified percentage per annum over a fixed three year period. The Committee considers that a consistent 
and real rate of growth in earnings per share is an appropriate performance target as it is a good guide to the underlying financial 
performance of Laird PLC. The rules of the 2003 plan permit the waiver of performance criteria in certain limited circumstances, such 
as a change of control, death or retirement. In accordance with the rules of the plan, outstanding options may become exercisable 
before their normal exercise date in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The performance conditions under the plan are based on the Company’s earnings per share growth adjusted to exclude items which 
do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance. 
Tier of Option Grant
Applicable Performance Target: 
Average Annual growth in earnings per share in excess of inflation
Options granted 2003 to 2007 Options granted in 2008
 Up to 0.5 x salary UK RPI + 3% per annum UK RPI + 5% per annum
 0.5 x salary – 1 x salary 
 and above
UK RPI + 3% to 5% per annum applied 
pro rata to the multiple of salary
UK RPI + 5% to 7.5% per annum applied 
pro rata to the multiple of salary
The performance conditions are measured over a three year period. To the extent that the performance conditions have not been 
met after three years, the options will lapse.
In order to allow for the grant of options to employees who are not executive directors, there is an overall dilution limit of 10% of the 
ordinary share capital in issue from time to time for allocations in respect of newly issued shares over a ten year period under these 
plans and all other share schemes operated by the Company.
In considering whether share options granted in 2005 should vest in 2008, the Remuneration Committee considered not just whether 
the performance criteria described above had been met, but also the absolute level of growth in underlying earnings per share 
from continuing operations over the three year period. This showed that average annual growth in underlying continuing earnings 
per share over the three year period was approximately 33.5%, which the Remuneration Committee considered did represent a 
sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of Laird.
The targets shown above applied for options granted in 2008 and the earnings per share growth is measured from a base point
of 33.1p.
The awards in 2008 were made at one times base salary as the Remuneration Committee considered that this, together with awards 
under the LTIPs as described above, should be at this level to clearly promote the delivery of above market growth in shareholder 
value in future years. 
The amount charged to the income statement in respect of the share option plans granted to the executive directors was £89,000 
(2007, £296,000). The fair value for accounting purposes was calculated at 25.4 per cent of the face value of grants made in 2008. 44    Laird PLC
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2008
The directors’ interests in options under the 2003 executive share option (No. 1) plan in respect of new shares to be issued are 
shown in the table below:
1.1.08
Granted
in 2008
Exercised
in 2008
Lapsed 
in 2008 31.12.08
 
P J Hill 367,066 60,900**  –– 427,966
317,223 60,900
†  
–– 378,123
M L Rapp 97,420 29,500**  –– 126,920
97,481 29,500
†  
–– 126,981
J C Silver 177,182 32,000**  –– 209,182
183,307 32,000
†  
–– 215,307
**  The performance criterion is growth in the Company’s earnings per share of at least UK RPI plus an average of 5% per annum for the three year 
period ending 31 December 2010.
†
  The performance criterion is that the average annual growth in the Company’s earnings per share is at least UK RPI plus 5% to 7.5% per annum 
applied pro rata to the multiple of salary at time of grant for the three year period ending 31 December 2010. 
The breakdown of the outstanding options is shown in the table below:
Number of shares
under option as at
31 December 2008
Exercise
price (p) Exercise period
 
P J Hill
1994 Executive Scheme 236,357 161 10.12.05-10.12.12
2003 Executive (No. 1) Plan 153,773 195 02.06.06-02.06.13
 147,198 271 12.03.07-12.03.14
 163,318 323 18.03.08-18.03.15
122,000 457.75 25.04.09-25.04.16
98,000 587.50 15.05.10-15.05.17
 121,800 500.00 17.03.11-17.03.18
 
1,042,446
 
M L Rapp
2003 Executive (No. 1) Plan 85,901 323 18.03.08-18.03.15
64,000 457.75 25.04.09-25.04.16
45,000 587.50 15.05.10-15.05.17
59,000 500.00 17.03.11-17.03.18
 
253,901
 
J C Silver
1994 Executive Scheme 29,694
42,420
315
293.5
10.09.02-10.09.09
16.11.03-16.11.10
2003 Executive (No. 1) Plan 61,808 195 02.06.06-02.06.13
97,780 271 12.03.07-12.03.14
85,901 323 18.03.08-18.03.15
 64,000 457.75 25.04.09-25.04.16
 51,000 587.50 15.05.10-15.05.17
 64,000 500.00 17.03.11-17.03.18
 
496,603
 
There have been no changes in these interests since the year end. The middle market share price at 31 December 2008 (the last 
business day of the year) was 139p. During the year the share price was in the range 65.25p to 568p.
c)  Share Price Improvement Plan 
The Laird PLC Share Price Improvement Plan (“SPIP”), a new long term incentive plan for the three executive directors, was 
approved by Shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting. The SPIP is a one-off arrangement to complement the existing
LTIP and Executive Share Option Schemes. The awards made under the SPIP take the form of conditional awards of free shares in 
the Company.
On 9 May 2008, Mr Hill was granted a conditional award of 333,333 shares and Messrs Rapp and Silver were granted conditional 
awards of 166,666 shares each in the Company. The amount charged to the income statement in respect of those awards
was £56,000. The fair value for accounting purposes was calculated as 12.3 per cent of the face value of awards made in 2008. Laird PLC    45   
The vesting of shares under the SPIP is subject to the achievement of an Underpinning Performance condition and a Primary 
Performance condition. For the Underpinning Performance condition to be met; the Company’s Total Shareholder Return growth over 
the performance period must be above median when compared to the constituents of FTSE 250 companies (excluding investment 
trusts) in existence at the date of the award and the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that there has been a sustained 
improvement in the Company’s underlying financial performance over the performance period. The Primary Performance Condition 
is for the Company’s share price to have increased to at least £15, averaged over a 60 day dealing period. If the £15 price is not 
attained between the third anniversary of the date of grant and the end of the five year performance period, no part of the award 
vests, unless the share price is greater than £10 at the end of such five year performance period in which case, a partial vesting will 
occur provided the Underpinning Performance condition has been satisfied. If such Primary Performance condition and Underpinning 
Performance conditions are both satisfied at any time between the third anniversary of the date of grant and the end of the five year 
performance period, the awards will vest in full and will be paid out to participants immediately.
Following the vesting of an award, 50 percent of the net number of shares (after tax and social security charges) will be subject to a 
one year retention period. In the case of Mr Hill, the retention period is the earlier of one year post-vesting and his retirement date.
In accordance with the rules of the SPIP, outstanding awards may vest before their normal vesting date in the event of a change in 
control of the Company. 
The Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”)
The Trust purchases and holds shares in Laird PLC to meet the requirements of share option awards and grants under the LTIP. 
The Trust, which is financed by a loan of £0.2m from the Company, currently holds 204,048 ordinary shares which relate to the LTIP . 
Currently there are no outstanding share options, other than those granted under the LTIP , to be satisfied by the Trust. Whilst
shares are held within the Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are exercisable by the trustee, in accordance with its 
fiduciary duties.
Independent Non-executive Directors
Chairman
Under an arrangement between the Company and Imperialise Limited, Mr Keen is retained to act as Chairman of the Company.
Mr Keen’s fees for his services, for which he must account to Imperialise Limited, are £175,000 per annum. Imperialise is responsible 
for Mr Keen’s National Insurance and is paid a sum equivalent to the National Insurance on those fees of £22,400, for which it 
accounts to Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (“HMRC”) whereas National Insurance in respect of the non-executive directors 
is paid directly to HMRC. NI payments are not included in the table below. Mr Keen’s initial period of appointment as Chairman 
was for three years commencing 5 June 2000. His term of appointment, was extended by the Board for two further three year 
periods commencing 5 June 2003 and 5 June 2006 and it will be extended for a further three years commencing 5 June 2009. The 
appointment, which is subject to rotation, may be terminated by either party giving not less than six months notice.
Non-executive Directors
The non-executive directors’ annual fee is £36,000 per annum. A J Reading and A M Robb’s emoluments include fees at the rate of 
£7,000 per annum to reflect their chairmanship of Board Committees. Dr Spivey who is based in North America, received additional 
remuneration of £15,000 during the year to take account of additional time spent on the Company’s business. Sir Christopher Hum’s 
services as a non-executive director are supplied by Qilin Consulting Limited. The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not 
receive any other benefits.
Emoluments of the Chairman and non-executive directors:
2008
£000
2007
£000
 
N J Keen, Chairman 175 175
Professor M J Kelly 36 36
Sir Christopher Hum 36 36
A J Reading 43 43
A M Robb 43 43
Dr W R Spivey 51 51 46    Laird PLC
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2008
Performance Graph
The graph below shows for the five years ended 31 December 2008, the total shareholder return on a holding of the Company’s 
ordinary shares compared with hypothetical holdings of shares made up of shares of the same kind and number as those by 
reference to which the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) is calculated, and also the Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector 
of the FTSE. The FTSE 250 and the Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector have been shown because both are relevant to 
Laird. Total shareholder return has been calculated by reference to the relevant share price for each constituent company assuming 
dividends are reinvested.
Total shareholder return for the five years ended 31 December 2008
0
100
200
300
500
400
Dec – 03
Jun– 04
Dec – 04
Jun– 05
Dec – 05
Jun– 06
Dec – 06
Jun– 07
Dec – 07
Jun– 08
Dec – 08
LAIRD PLC FTSE MID 250 REBASED (EXC. INVESTMENT TRUSTS) FTSE ELECTRONIC AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT SECTOR
p
In accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations, the ten tables setting out directors’ remuneration, pensions, 
LTIP awards and share options contained within the report have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP; the statements of policy and 
the total shareholder return graph have not been audited.
This report was adopted by the Remuneration Committee at a meeting on 5 March 2009 and has been approved subsequently by 
Laird PLC’s Board for submission to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2009.
By Order of the Board
A J Reading
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
10 March 2009 Laird PLC    47   
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
in relation to the Group ﬁ nancial statements
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditor’s statement of their responsibilities on page 48, is
made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and the Auditors in relation to the 
financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present a true and fair view of the financial 
position of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period. In preparing those financial 
statements on a going concern basis, the directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; and
•  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
•  state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the 
financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. They are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge:
(i)  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole; and
(ii)  the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board
Peter Hill Jonathan Silver
Chief Executive Finance Director
10 March 2009 48    Laird PLC
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the Members of Laird PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Group 
income statement, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the Statement of recognised income and expense and 
the related notes 1 to 35. These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 and 
on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable 
United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial 
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also 
report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements. The 
information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific information that is cross referred from the business review section of 
the Directors’ report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance report reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are 
not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial 
statements. The other information comprises only the Directors’ report, the unaudited part of the Directors’ remuneration report, the 
Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s review, the Finance Director’s report, the Corporate social responsibility report and the 
Corporate governance report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or 
material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial 
statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of 
the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order 
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of 
the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state 
of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor        
London
10 March 2009 
Notes:
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Laird PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration 
of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially 
presented on the web site.
2.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Laird PLC    49   
Group income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2008
note 2008 2007
£m £m
   
Continuing operations
4 Revenue 635.3 564.3
   
Operating profit before amortisation of acquired
intangible assets and exceptional items 68.5 80.0
17 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (11.4)  (10.2)  
7 Exceptional items (20.3)  (10.4)  
   
 6 Operating profit    36.8 59.4
10 Finance revenue 0.5 2.8
10 Finance costs (9.6)  (11.2)  
10 Financial instruments – fair value adjustments (2.4)  1.2
35 Other net finance revenue – pension 1.2 0.8
 7 Exceptional finance costs – (1.5)  
   
Profit before tax from continuing operations 26.5 51.5
11 Taxation (12.2)  (11.8)  
   
Profit for the year from continuing operations 14.3 39.7
Discontinued operations
12 Profit for the year from discontinued operations – 88.0
   
Profit for the year 14.3 127.7
   
 Earnings per share 
13 Basic from continuing operations 8.1p  21.4p  
13 Diluted from continuing operations 8.0p  21.2p  
13 Basic on profit for the year 8.1p  68.7p  
13 Diluted on profit for the year 8.0p  68.0p  
14 Underlying profit before tax* 
Continuing 60.6 72.4
Total 60.6 76.8
Underlying basic earnings per share* 
Continuing 27.4p  33. 1p  
Total 27.4p  34.9p  
15 Dividends declared / proposed
Dividends 21.1 120.1
Dividend per share 11.8 61.5p  
*before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, exceptional items, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or 
loss on disposal of businesses, and the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments
8p 50    Laird PLC
Statement of recognised income and expense
for the year to 31 December 2008
note 2008 2007
£m £m
   
Profit for the year 14.3 127.7
 
35 Actuarial (losses) / gains on retirement benefit obligations (9.7)  3.0
11 Deferred tax on actuarial gains / losses 1.7 (1.7)  
11 Deferred tax on share based payments (0.7)  –
Exchange differences on retranslation of overseas net investments 196.6 3.2
Exchange losses transferred to discontinued in income statement – 19.5
Exchange differences on net investment hedges (47.4)  1.7
11 Tax on exchange differences – 0.7
   
Total income and expense recognised directly in equity 140.5 26.4
   
Total income and expense recognised for the year 154.8 154.1
    Laird PLC    51   
Group balance sheet
as at 31 December 2008
note 2008 2007
£m £m
   
Assets
Non-current assets
16 Property, plant and equipment 123.7 76.1
17 Intangible assets 610.0 451.0
25 Deferred tax assets 2.7 1.4
35 Retirement benefit assets 4.0 12.3
Other non-current assets 1.0 0.7
   
741.4 541.5
   
Current assets
28 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 –
19 Inventories 80.2 55.4
20 Trade and other receivables 129.0 159.9
Income tax receivable 2.9 2.0
21 Cash 46.9 32.8
   
259.5 250.1
   
Liabilities
Current liabilities
22 Borrowings (7.6)  (9.4)  
28 Derivative financial instruments (2.9)  –
24 Trade and other payables (115.1)  (132.8)  
Current tax liabilities (6.8)  (9.1)  
27 Provisions (7.0)  (7.1)  
   
(139.4)  (158.4)  
   
Net current assets 120.1 91.7
   
Non-current liabilities
22 Borrowings (178.8)  (108.8)  
Income tax payable (28.9)  (22.0)  
25 Deferred tax liabilities (57.8)  (43.9)  
35 Retirement benefit obligations (3.9)  (4.2)  
26 Other non-current liabilities (2.8)  (2.1)  
27 Provisions (4.0)  (3.7)  
   
(276.2)  (184.7)  
   
Net assets 585.3 448.5
   
Capital and reserves
29 Equity share capital 49.9 49.8
31 Share premium 269.7 268.9
31 Retained earnings 113.4 128.4
31 Translation reserve 152.5 3.3
31 Treasury shares (0.2)  (1.9)  
   
Total shareholders’ equity 585.3 448.5
    52    Laird PLC
Group cash ﬂ ow statement
for the year to 31 December 2008
note 2008 2007
£m £m
   
32 Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 66.4 42.4
Tax paid (17.2)  (7.7)  
   
Net cash flows from operating activities 49.2 34.7
   
Cash flow from investing activities
Interest received 0.5 2.9
32 Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired) (17.7)  (81.4)  
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (30.0)  (27.9)  
32 Inflow from sale of businesses 11.5 219.9
Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 1.3 0.5
   
Net cash flows from investing activities (34.4)  114.0
    
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest and other finance costs paid (10.2)  (12.5)  
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 0.9 3.2
Movement in treasury shares 0.4 –
Increase / (decrease) in borrowings 16.8 (32.3)  
Dividends paid to shareholders (21.1)  (120.0)  
   
Net cash flows from financing activities (13.2)  (161.6)  
   
Effects of movements in foreign exchange rates 12.9 1.3
   
Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents for the year 14.5 (11.6)  
32 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 32.4 44.0
    
32 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 46.9 32.4
    Laird PLC    53   
note
 1 Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors 
on 10 March 2009 and the balance sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by P J Hill and J C Silver. Laird PLC is a public 
limited company (formerly known as The Laird Group PLC until its change of name on 9 May 2008) incorporated and 
domiciled in England and Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted for use in the European Union (IFRS) and the principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
 2 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for derivative financial 
instruments, that have been measured at fair value, and accounting for pensions. The consolidated financial statements are 
presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand unless otherwise indicated. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the directors to 
make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies 
at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense during the reporting periods. Although these 
judgements and assumptions are based on the directors’ best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results 
may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of goodwill and the measurement 
of defined benefit pension obligations and defined benefit assets. The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an 
annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the intangible assets are 
allocated. This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate (see note 17). Measurement of 
defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, 
the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate (see note 35). 
The accounting policies set out below have been used to prepare the financial information.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated Group comprises Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings (‘the Group’). The financial statements of the 
subsidiaries are prepared as of the same reporting date as the parent, using consistent accounting policies. Intra-group 
balances and transactions are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date on 
which the Group ceases to control them.
All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of a business combination is measured 
as the aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of any assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity 
instruments issued by the Group, plus any costs directly attributable to the combination. The identifiable assets and liabilities 
of the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the business combination 
over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, including those of an intangible and tangible nature 
and liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Currency translation
The financial statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries are prepared using its functional currency. The functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates. The presentation currency of the 
Group is sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary 
assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
In the Group accounts the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted 
average rates of exchange for the period. Net investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rates of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising from retranslating opening net investments and the 
retained profits for the period of overseas subsidiaries, less exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide 
a hedge against overseas investments, are shown as movements in equity. All other exchange differences are dealt with in 
the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. On 
disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders’ equity that relate to the disposed 
operation are transferred to the income statement.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received and excludes intra-group sales and value-added taxes and 
represents net invoice value.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party, the 
amount of revenue can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction 
will flow to the Group.
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2008 54    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
Retirement benefit obligations
Under IAS 19 the assets and liabilities of defined benefit pension plans are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet and 
the operating and financing costs of defined benefit pension plans are recognised in the income statement as operating 
costs and interest costs respectively. Variations from expected costs, arising from the experience of the plans or changes in 
actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense (SORIE).
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit 
credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the 
current and prior periods (to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. The 
assets of defined benefit plans are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet and the liabilities are recognised at present 
value using a high quality corporate bond rate. 
The Group applied IFRIC 14 during 2007, which allows the Group to recognise a surplus in schemes where an unconditional 
right to a refund exists. This was a change in accounting policy.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they become 
payable.
Share based payments
The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), Share Price Improvement Plan (SPIP) and Restricted Share Plan (RSP) 
shares awarded is estimated at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking into account the terms 
and conditions upon which the LTIP, SPIP and RSP shares were awarded including market based performance conditions. 
The fair value of share options granted is estimated at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. Non-market company performance and 
service conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
No expense is recognised for grants that do not vest and charges previously made are reversed except that an expense is 
recognised for grants where vesting is conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as vesting irrespective of 
whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided all the other performance vesting conditions are satisfied. 
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as 
vesting as described above. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the 
income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not 
been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share 
based payment, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of 
cancellation or settlement, and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately. 
Intangible assets
Acquired intangible assets, including patents, trade secrets, brand names and customer relationships, are recognised 
separately from goodwill and capitalised at fair value and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives. Amortisation 
is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis. The estimated useful life of an intangible asset ranges between 3 
and 20 years depending on its nature.
Research and development
Research and development expenditure is expensed as it is incurred, except for certain development costs, which are 
capitalised as intangible assets when it is probable that the development project will be commercially viable, and certain 
criteria, including commercial and technological feasibility have been met. Intangible assets arising in this manner are 
amortised over their useful economic lives, from the product launch date, which is typically less than three years. Intangible 
assets relating to products in the development phase, both internally generated and externally acquired, are subject to an 
impairment review at each balance sheet date, or earlier should indication of impairment arise. Any impairment losses are 
written off immediately to income.
Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired. Goodwill arises where the fair value of 
the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications 
that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to 
being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill set off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated 
and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation 
authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Laird PLC    55   
note
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
• where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that 
is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction effects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
• deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise 
income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends
Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a 
legal liability of the Company.
Interest
Interest is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost 
comprises the purchase price and directly attributable costs, for example, initial delivery and handling costs and installation 
and assembly costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. For all other property, plant, and equipment depreciation is 
calculated on a straight line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings       50 years or less
Leasehold buildings      50 years or the lease term if less
Computer equipment       5 years or less
Motor vehicles        4 years
Other plant and machinery      13 years or less
A proportion of one year’s depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such 
indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s 
recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs 
to sell and its value in use. This is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that 
are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are 
largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to 
which the asset belongs is determined. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset 
is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income 
statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Leases
Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated 
as a finance lease. All other leases are treated as operating leases, and are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at fair value. Each asset is 
depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the asset. The obligations relating to finance leases, net 
of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate under current, or non-current, trade and other 
payables. The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a 
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Segment reporting
The Group’s primary reporting format is business segments and its secondary format is geographical segments. A business 
segment is a component of the Group that is engaged in providing a group of related products and is subject to risks and 
returns that are different from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is a component of the Group 
that operates within a particular economic environment and is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of 
components operating in other economic environments. 56    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
Exceptional items
These items are presented within the relevant income statement category. The separate reporting of exceptional items helps 
provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. Events which may give rise to the classification 
of items as exceptional include the restructuring of businesses, the integration of new businesses, gains or losses on the 
disposal of businesses, and asset impairments.
Financial assets 
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Trade receivables are recognised when the Group 
becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable 
amount. Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made when there 
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability 
of recovery is assessed as being remote. The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group 
of financial assets is impaired. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised 
or impaired. 
Trade and other receivables are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the 
asset and are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment. A provision for impairment is made when there 
is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will 
not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is 
reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable. 
Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Derivative financial assets are classified as held for trading, unless they are designated as hedging instruments. These assets 
are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses in value being recognised in the income statement.
A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised 
where:
•  the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or
•   the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less, in the case of a liability not at fair value through profit or loss, 
directly attributable transaction costs. Measurement after initial recognition is at amortised cost, with the changes in the 
carrying amount being taken through the income statement.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in 
finance income and finance expense.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The Group may use derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to 
hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. From 1 January 2005, such derivative 
financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at fair value. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the income statement. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is 
positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with 
similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar 
instruments.
For those contracts designated as hedges the hedging relationship is documented at its inception. This documentation 
identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness 
will be measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to be 
effective and periodically throughout their duration to assess continuing effectiveness.
Cash flow hedges
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while 
the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when 
the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs. Where the hedged item is
the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the 
non-financial asset or liability. Laird PLC    57   
note
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or 
loss. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation 
as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are 
transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above. If the related 
transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to profit or loss.
Net investment hedges
These are used to hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign operations. 
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in 
shareholders’ equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the income statement. 
Interest rate swaps
The interest rate swap contract has not been designated as a hedge and gains or losses arising on this contract are taken to 
the income statement.
Treasury shares
The Laird PLC shares held in the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“ESOP”) are classified in shareholders’ equity as 
‘treasury shares’ and are recognised at cost. Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, 
with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is 
recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash in the balance sheet comprises cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity in three 
months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as 
defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. For finished goods and work in progress, cost includes 
directly attributable costs and certain overhead expenses (principally administration costs) are excluded. Net realisable value 
is determined as estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling 
and distribution.
Provisions
These comprise liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are 
discounted where the time value of money is material.
New Standards and Interpretations not applied
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been 
applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective for the financial period:
International Accounting Financial Reporting Standards (IAS/IFRS) Effective date
IFRS 1 / IAS 27 Amendments to IFRS1 / IAS 27 – Cost of Investment in Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2009
IFRS 2 Amendment to IFRS 2 – Vesting Conditions and Cancellations  1 January 2009
IFRS 7 / IAS 39 Amendments – Reclassification of Financial Assets 1 July 2008
IFRS 3 Business Combinations (revised January 2008) 1 July 2009
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (revised January 2008) 1 January 2009
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs (revised March 2008) 1 January 2009
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (revised January 2008) 1 July 2009
IAS 32 Amendment to IAS 32 – Puttable Financial Instruments 1 January 2009
IAS 39 Amendment – Eligible Hedged Items  1 July 2009
  Annual Improvements to IFRSs  1 January 2009
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes  1 July 2008
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation  1 October 2008
IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-Cash Assets to Owners  1 July 2009
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers  1 July 2009
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have any effect on the financial 
performance or position of the Group, but they will result in changes in the presentation of the Group’s financial statements 
from 2009 onwards. 58    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 3 Segmental analysis 
Following a reorganisation in the second half of 2008, the Group changed its primary reporting format to the three segments 
Handset Products, Performance Materials and Wireless Systems. These three segments were reported as the two segments 
Antenna & Wireless Systems and Electronic Components & Systems in the 2007 Report and Accounts. Comparative 
information for 2007 has been restated to reflect these segments.
Primary reporting format – business segments
Handset Products
Performance 
Materials Wireless Systems Total
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
         
Continuing operations
Revenue from customers 348.7 303.0 190.9 181.8 95.7 79.5 635.3 564.3
         
Segment profit before: 37.4 42.4 23.1 28.0 8.0 9.6 68.5 80.0
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (3.6)  (3.3)  (3.0)  (3.0)  (4.8)  (3.9)  (11.4)  (10.2)  
Exceptional items (3.3)  (0.8)  (13.8)   (8.9)  (3.2)  (0.7)  (20.3)  (10.4)  
         
Operating profit 30.5 38.3 6.3 16.1 – 5.0 36.8 59.4
       
Finance revenue 0.5 2.8
Finance costs (9.6)  (11.2)  
Financial instruments –  fair value 
adjustments (2.4)  1.2
Other net finance revenue –  pension 1.2 0.8
Exceptional finance costs – (1.5)  
         
Profit before tax 26.5 51.5
Taxation (12.2)  (11.8)  
          
Profit for the year from continuing operations 14.3 39.7
         
Laird Security 
Systems Total
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
         
Discontinued operations
Revenue – 72.9 – 72.9
         
Segment profit before: – 4.4 – 4.4
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – (0.3)  – (0.3)  
Exceptional items – (0.6)  – (0.6)  
         
Operating profit – 3.5 – 3.5
Taxation – (1.1)  – (1.1)  
         
Profit after tax from discontinued operations – 2.4 – 2.4
          
Profit before tax on current year disposal – 89.3 – 89.3
         
Loss before tax on prior year disposal* – (4.0)  
Taxation* – 0.3
         
Profit from discontinued operations – 88.0
         
Profit for the year 14.3 127.7
         
* These relate to other business segments disposed of in years prior to 2007. Laird PLC    59   
note
 3 Segmental analysis (continued)
Handset Products
Performance 
Materials Wireless Systems
Laird Security 
Systems Total
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
           
Segment assets 334.0 281.8 419.9 316.2 230.2 161.9 – – 984.1 759.9
Unallocated assets – – – – – – – – 16.8 31.7
           
Total assets 334.0 281.8 419.9 316.2 230.2 161.9 – – 1,000.9 791.6
           
Segment liabilities 51.3 68.9 44.0 38.0 16.2 18.9 – – 111.5 125.8
Unallocated liabilities
– borrowings – – – – – – – – 186.4 118.2
– other – – – – – – – – 117.7 99.1
           
Total liabilities 51.3 68.9 44.0 38.0 16.2 18.9 – – 415.6 343.1
           
Other segment items
Capital additions 18.1 15.7 15.2 11.1 3.8 3.4 – 2.0 37.1 32.2
Acquisition of businesses – 18.2 – – 13.0 72.6 – – 13.0 90.8
           
Total additions 18.1 33.9 15.2 11.1 16.8 76.0 – 2.0 50.1 123.0
           
Depreciation 5.9 4.1 4.9 4.7 1.6 1.2 – 1.7 12.4 11.7
           
Amortisation of intangible assets 5.3 4.7 3.6 3.4 5.6 4.1 – 0.3 14.5 12.5
           
Secondary reporting format –  geographical segments
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis and the parent company is resident in the UK. The Group’s 
operations are based in the following territories:
North America, Europe, Asia and Rest of World.
The segment revenue analysis in the table below is based on the location of the customer. Segment assets and additions 
during the year are based on location of production.
        Segment revenue                 Segment assets                  Asset additions
 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
       
Continuing operations
North America 129.0 126.9 581.2 429.2 8.1 79.4
Europe 101.4 102.0 148.1 125.4 20.0 4.4
Asia 387.8 324.9 254.8 205.3 22.0 37.2
Rest of World 17.1 10.5 – – – – 
       
635.3 564.3 984.1 759.9 50.1 121.0
Discontinued operations
North America – 28.8 – – – 1.0
Europe – 42.2 – – – 1.0 
Asia – 1.4 – – – – 
Rest of World – 0.5 – – – – 
       
– 72.9 – – – 2.0
Total continuing and
  discontinued 635.3 637.2 984.1 759.9 50.1 123.0
Unallocated – – 16.8 31.7 – – 
       
635.3 637.2 1,000.9 791.6 50.1 123.0
        60    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 4 Revenue
Revenue disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Sale of goods 
Total 635.3 637.2
Less: from discontinued operations – (72.9)  
   
Revenue 635.3 564.3
Finance revenue 0.5 2.8
   
Total revenue 635.8 567.1
   
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods and services (2007, £nil).
 5 Exchange rates
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted average rates of exchange for 
the year. The principal rates used were as follows:
        Average        Closing
2008 2007 2008 2007
     
Czech Koruna 31.47 40.60 27.77 36.20
Euros 1.26 1.46 1.03 1.36
Japanese Yen 192.62 235.64 130.33 222.38
Renminbi (RMB) 12.91 15.22 9.81 14.54
Swedish Krona 12.09 13.51 11.37 12.87
US dollars 1.86 2.00 1.44 1.99
 6  Operating profit before finance costs and tax
 2008 2007
£m £m
   
Revenue 635.3 564.3
Cost of sales (437.5)  (372.6)  
   
Gross profit 197.8 191.7
Selling, administration and other expenses (126.2)  (109.1)  
Research and development expenditure (net) (34.8)  (23.2)  
   
Operating profit before finance costs and tax 36.8 59.4
   
Note:
(a)  Included in selling, administration and other expenses are £20.3m (2007, £10.4m) of exceptional items as described in 
note 7 to the financial statements and £11.4m (2007, £10.2m) of amortisation relating to acquired intangible assets.
(b)  Included in research and development expenditure is £3.1m (2007, £2.0m) of amortisation in respect of capitalised 
development. Laird PLC    61   
note
 6  Operating profit before finance costs and tax (continued)
2008
Continuing
operations
2008
Discontinued 
operations
2007
Continuing
operations
2007
Discontinued
operations
£m £m £m £m
     
Operating profit for the year is stated after charging the 
following items:
Staff costs 101.6 – 94.1 16.0
Exceptional items 
   Fixed assets write downs 1.8 – 3.1 – 
   Inventory write downs 1.6 – 0.2 – 
   Other restructuring 16.9 – 6.5 0.6
Research and development expenditure
   Incurred 39.0 – 25.0 0.1
   Capitalised (7.3)  – (3.8)  (0.1)  
Depreciation and amortisation
   Property, plant and equipment 12.4 – 10.0 1.7
   Intangible assets 14.5 – 12.2 0.3
Operating lease rentals
   Hire of plant and machinery 0.8 – 1.0 0.3
   Other 8.0 – 4.2 1.1
Auditors’ remuneration *
   Audit fees
   – Group accounts 0.2 – 0.2 – 
   – Local statutory audit 0.8 – 0.6 – 
   Tax fees
   – Compliance services 0.4 – 0.4 0.1
   – Planning services 1.2 – 1.0 – 
Transaction support services 0.5 – 0.1 0.9
Other services 0.1 – 0.1 – 
* Total fees paid to the auditors were £3.2m (2007, £3.7m including £0.3m for services in respect of acquisitions not charged against 
operating profit).  62    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 7 Exceptional items
 2008 2007
 £m £m
Continuing operations:
Handset Products
   Fixed assets write downs (0.3)  (0.2)  
   Inventory write downs (0.1)  – 
   Other restructuring costs (2.9)  (0.6)  
   
(3.3)  (0.8)  
   
Performance Materials
   Fixed assets write downs (1.5)  (2.9)  
   Inventory write downs (1.4)  (0.2)  
   Other restructuring costs (10.9)  (5.8)  
   
(13.8)  (8.9)  
   
Wireless Systems
   Inventory write downs (0.1)  – 
   Other restructuring costs (3.1)  (0.1)  
   Acquisition related payments – (0.6)  
   
(3.2)  (0.7)  
   
(20.3)  (10.4)  
Finance costs incurred on the early repayment of Private Placement notes – (1.5)  
Discontinued operations:
Laird Security Systems
   Other restructuring costs – (0.6)  
   
(20.3)  (12.5)  
   
Note
(a) The total cash outlay for exceptional costs in 2008 was £9.7m (2007, £4.6m).
(b) The tax effect on exceptional items in 2008 is a £2.2m tax credit (2007, £1.6m tax credit).
(c) Other restructuring costs include redundancy and site closure costs.
 8 Directors’ emoluments
2008 2007
 £m £m
   
Emoluments 
   Fees 0.2 0.2
   Salaries and benefits 1.5 1.4
   Pension contributions 0.4 0.3
Performance incentive awards 
   Bonuses 0.2 1.2
   Share based payments 0.9 0.9
   
3.2 4.0
   
Aggregate notional and other gains on the exercise of share options by directors have been disclosed in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on page 42. Laird PLC    63   
note
 9  Employees
2008 2007
 Number Number
   
Average number of Group employees
   Handset Products 6,773 5,472
   Performance Materials 4,058 4,549
   Wireless Systems 1,262 1,437
   
Continuing operations 12,093 11,458
  
Discontinued operations – 839
   
 12,093 12,297
   
The total number of Group employees at 31 December 2008 was 11,189 (2007, 14,332).
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Employee costs
   Wages and salaries 86.4 94.7
   Social security costs 11.4 11.3
   Other pension costs 2.0 2.1
   Share based payments 1.8 2.0
   
101.6 110.1
   
Compensation of key management personnel (excluding directors)
Key management personnel comprise members of the management team as defined by IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”. 
In 2007 key management personnel included the management team of Laird Security Systems.
 2008 2007
 £m £m
   
Short term employee benefits 2.6 3.5
Post employment benefits 0.2 0.3
Termination benefits – – 
Share based payments 0.5 0.5
   
3.3 4.3
   
 10 Finance costs and revenues
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Interest expense
   Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 2.7 4.8
   Interest payable on other loans 6.0 5.7
   Other finance charges 0.9 0.7
   
Finance costs 9.6 11.2
Exceptional finance costs (note 7) – 1.5
Financial instruments – fair value adjustments 2.4 (1.2)  
   
12.0 11.5
   
Interest income (0.5)  (2.8)  
    64    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 11   Taxation
2008 2007
£m £m
   
(a) Analysis of the tax charge for the year
 Current tax
    UK corporation tax – – 
    Overseas tax – continuing operations 17.4 17.4
  – discontinued operations – 2.4
    Prior year items  – continuing operations (4.7)  (3.9)  
  – discontinued operations – – 
   
 Total current tax charge 12.7 15.9
   
 Deferred tax
    Continuing operations (1.0)  (1.2)  
    Discontinued operations – (1.6)  
    Prior year items – continuing operations 0.5 (0.5)  
   
 Total deferred tax credit (0.5)  (3.3)  
   
 Total tax charge in the income statement 12.2 12.6
   
 The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows:
    Tax charge on continuing operations 12.2 11.8
    Tax charge on discontinued operations – 0.8
   
12.2 12.6
   
(b) Tax included in the statement of recognised income and expense is as follows:
 Current tax   – exchange differences – (0.7)  
 Deferred tax – actuarial gains / losses on retirement benefit obligations (1.7)  1.7
  – share based payments 0.7 – 
   
(1.0)  1.0
   
(c)  Reconciliation of the total tax charge for the year
The tax charge in the income statement for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 
(2007, 30%). The difference is reconciled below:
2008 2007
£m £m
   
 Profit before tax from continuing operations 26.5 51.5
 Profit before tax from discontinued operations – 88.8
   
 Total profit before tax 26.5 140.3
   
 Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2007, 30%)  7.4 42.1
 Effects of:
 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 6.5 7.4
 Non taxable profit on disposal – (25.6)  
 Regional tax incentives (5.4)  (12.4)  
 Overseas tax rate differences – 2.6
 Prior year items (4.2)  (4.4)  
 Unrelieved tax losses 7.9 2.9
   
 Total tax expense reported in the income statement 12.2 12.6
   
(d)  Factors that may effect future tax charges
The Group operates internationally and is subject to income taxes in many different tax jurisdictions. The Group’s average 
expected tax rate is impacted by the tax rates in jurisdictions in which the Group operates and may vary depending upon 
results in each jurisdiction. Laird PLC    65   
note
 12 Discontinued operations
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Results from discontinued operations:
Revenue – 72.9
   
Operating profit before:
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets
Exceptional items
– 
– 
– 
4.4
(0.3)  
(0.6)  
Taxation – (1.1)  
   
Profit after tax from discontinued operations – 2.4
Profit on disposal of businesses:
Profit before transfer from translation reserve
Transfer from translation reserve
 
– 
– 
108.8
(19.5)  
   
Profit on current year disposals – 89.3
Loss on prior year disposals – (4.0)  
Taxation – 0.3
   
Profit after tax on disposals – 85.6
   
Profit from discontinued operations – 88.0
   
The results from discontinued operations in 2007 are the results from Laird Security Systems, which was disposed of on
27 April 2007 for a total consideration of £242.5m.
 13 Earnings per share
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the profit for the year divided by the daily average 
of the number of shares in issue during the year. Diluted earnings per share is based on the same profits but with the 
number of shares increased to reflect the daily average effect of relevant share options granted but not yet exercised where 
performance conditions have been met and shares contingently issuable.
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Profit
Profit after tax from continuing operations 14.3 39.7
Profit from discontinued operations – 88.0
   
Profit for the year 14.3 127.7
   
Number of
shares
(m)
Number of 
shares
 (m)
   
Weighted average shares
Basic weighted average shares 177.2 185.9
Options 1.0 1.8
   
Diluted weighted average shares* 178.2 187.7
   
Pence Pence
   
Earnings per share
Basic from continuing operations 8.1 21.4
   
Diluted from continuing operations 8.0 21.2
   
Basic from discontinued operations – 47.3
   
Diluted from discontinued operations – 46.8
   
Basic on profit for the year 8.1 68.7
   
Diluted on profit for the year 8.0 68.0
   
*  Any anti-dilutive shares would be unlikely to impact earnings per share in the future. 66    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 14 Underlying results
Underlying profit and earnings per share are shown as the Board considers them to be relevant guides to the performance of 
the Group. The tax charge for the year is equivalent to 19.8% (2007, 15.5%) of underlying profit before tax.
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Profit
Continuing profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items 68.5 80.0
Finance revenue 0.5 2.8
Finance costs (9.6)  (11.2)  
Other finance revenue – pension 1.2 0.8
   
Continuing underlying profit before tax 60.6 72.4
Discontinued operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items – 4.4
   
Total underlying profit before tax 60.6 76.8
   
Tax
The underlying tax charge is calculated as follows: 
Underlying tax on continuing operations 12.0 10.8
Underlying tax on discontinued operations – 1.1
   
Total underlying tax 12.0 11.9
Continuing underlying tax rate
Total underlying tax rate
19.8
19.8
14.9
15.5
Tax relief on exceptional items
Deferred tax on goodwill and acquired intangible assets
Tax on prior period discontinued operations
Tax on fair value movement of financial instruments
(2.2)  
2.4
–
–
(1.6)  
2.2
(0.3)  
0.4
   
Total tax charge 12.2 12.6
    
Analysis of tax charge: 
Tax on profit from continuing operations
Tax on discontinued operations
12.2
–
11.8
0.8
   
Total tax charge 12.2 12.6
   
Pence Pence
   
Earnings per share  
Continuing underlying earnings per share – basic 27.4 33.1
   
Continuing underlying earnings per share – diluted 27.3 32.8
   
Total underlying earnings per share – basic 27.4 34.9
   
Total underlying earnings per share – diluted 27.3 34.6
   
 15 Dividends paid and proposed
On 10 March 2009 the Board declared, subject to approval from shareholders, a final dividend of 7.88p per share (2007, 7.88p). 
The final dividend will be paid on 6 July 2009 to shareholders registered on 5 June 2009. Dividends paid are charged to 
retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a legal liability of the Company.
Total Dividends Dividends paid
Dividends
declared / proposed*
2008
£m
2007
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
     
Final 2006 – 13.9 – –
Special 2007 – 99.7 – 99.7
Interim 2007 – 6.4 – 6.4
Final 2007 14.0 – – 14.0
Interim 2008 7.1 – 7.1 –
Final 2008 – – 14.0 –
      
21.1 120.0 21.1 120.1
     
* attributable to the period
%
%
%
% Laird PLC    67   
note
 15 Dividends paid and proposed (continued)
Dividends per share Dividends paid
Dividends
declared / proposed*
2008
Pence
2007
Pence
2008
Pence
2007
Pence
     
Final 2006 – 6.95 – –
Special 2007 – 50.00 – 50.00
Interim 2007 – 3.62 – 3.62
Final 2007 7.88 – – 7.88
Interim 2008 4.00 – 4.00 –
Final 2008 – – 7.88 –
     
11.88 60.57 11.88 61.50
      
* attributable to the period
 16 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Plant and
buildings machinery Total
 £m £m £m
    
Cost 
At 1 January 2007 26.7 123.7 150.4
Additions 6.9 21.4 28.3
New businesses – 1.3 1.3
Disposals (12.5)  (55.0)  (67.5)  
Foreign currency adjustment 0.9 2.1 3.0
    
At 31 December 2007 22.0 93.5 115.5
Additions 1.5 28.3 29.8
New businesses – 0.1 0.1
Disposals (0.5)  (2.7)  (3.2)  
Foreign currency adjustment 10.0 47.1 57.1
    
At 31 December 2008 33.0 166.3 199.3
    
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2007 4.9 58.9 63.8
Charge for year 1.0 10.7 11.7
Exceptional write downs in the year 1.4 1.7 3.1
Disposals (3.4)  (36.1)  (39.5)  
Foreign currency adjustment – 0.3 0.3
    
At 31 December 2007 3.9 35.5 39.4
Charge for year 1.8 10.6 12.4
Exceptional write downs in the year – 1.8 1.8
Disposals (0.1)  (2.0)  (2.1)  
Foreign currency adjustment 3.7 20.4 24.1
    
At 31 December 2008 9.3 66.3 75.6
    
Net book value at 31 December 2008 23.7 100.0 123.7
    
Net book value at 31 December 2007 18.1 58.0 76.1
    
Net book value at 1 January 2007 21.8 64.8 86.6
    
The exceptional write downs principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and have been included as part of the 
exceptional items disclosed in note 7. 68    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 17 Intangible assets
Capitalised 
development 
costs Goodwill
Customer 
relationships
Other acquired 
intangible
assets Total
£m £m £m £m £m
      
Cost
At 1 January 2007 6.2 383.1 56.1 26.5 471.9
Additions 3.9 – – – 3.9
Acquisition of businesses in the year – 56.6 20.4 9.9 86.9
Adjustments in respect of prior year
   acquisitions – 0.3 (1.3)  2.1 1.1
Disposal of businesses (0.3)  (51.8)  (9.1)  (0.9)  (62.1)  
Foreign currency adjustment 0.2 (2.0)  0.2 (0.5)  (2.1)  
      
At 31 December 2007 10.0 386.2 66.3 37.1 499.6
Additions 7.3 – – – 7.3
Acquisition of business in the year – 11.8 – 0.8 12.6
Adjustments in respect of prior year
   acquisitions – 0.4 – – 0.4
Foreign currency adjustment 4.0 134.4 23.5 11.9 173.8
      
At 31 December 2008 21.3 532.8 89.8 49.8 693.7
      
Amortisation
At 1 January 2007 1.2 29.1 6.3 5.6 42.2
Charge for the year 2.0 – 6.5 4.0 12.5
Disposal of businesses – (4.5)  (1.3)  (0.2)  (6.0)  
Foreign currency adjustment – (0.1)  0.1 (0.1)  (0.1)  
      
At 31 December 2007 3.2 24.5 11.6 9.3 48.6
Charge for the year 3.1 – 7.1 4.3 14.5
Foreign currency adjustment 1.4 8.7 6.1 4.4 20.6
      
At 31 December 2008 7.7 33.2 24.8 18.0 83.7
      
Net book value at 31 December 2008 13.6 499.6 65.0 31.8 610.0
      
Net book value at 31 December 2007 6.8 361.7 54.7 27.8 451.0
      
Net book value at 1 January 2007 5.0 354.0 49.8 20.9 429.7
      
Capitalised development costs
Internally generated assets arising from the capitalisation of qualifying development expenditure in 2008 typically have a 
finite expected useful life of less than 3 years. Capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a straight line basis. 
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits. The total amount of research and 
development activity expensed during 2008 is £39.0m (2007, £25.1m). There is no indication of impairment for capitalised 
development costs.
Goodwill
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for indications of impairment in accordance with IAS 36. No indications of 
impairment to goodwill were identified.
Handset Products had a goodwill balance of £153.6m at the year end (2007, £115.4m). Performance Materials had a 
goodwill balance of £216.2m at the year end (2007, £161.1m). Wireless Systems had a goodwill balance of £129.8m at the 
year end (2007, £85.2m). All of the recoverable amounts are based on value in use.
For the three divisions, the key assumptions were:
• A pre-tax discount rate of 10.0% (2007, 10.1%)
• Revenue growth rates for each division were based on relevant external market estimates and management knowledge. 
The discount rate has been applied to cash flow forecasts for 2009 through 2013. Cash flows for 2014 onwards for all three 
divisions have been increased by 3% per annum (2007, 3% per annum).
The discount rate is calculated taking into account the cost of debt and the cost of equity and weighted by the relative 
proportions of debt and equity. For 2008, the closing share price has lowered considerably the value of equity compared with 
the previous year. This has not been reflected in the discount rate through a lower cost of equity in comparison with 2007 as 
a factor has been applied to raise the discount rate back up towards the level used previously to reflect the more uncertain 
macro global economic climate that currently prevails.
Laird has consistently benefited from a low underlying tax charge relative to the UK corporation tax rate of 28% as the Group 
operates in a number of low tax cost jurisdictions. This has resulted in a lower discount rate than would otherwise be the 
case. A 28% tax rate would have resulted in a discount rate of 10.9%. Laird PLC    69   
note
 17 Intangible assets (continued)
The forecast cash flows for 2009 are based on what has been approved internally by the Board for the 2009 budget. 
Revenue estimates which underpin the forecasts for 2010-2013, have been based on external market estimates for 
handsets, PC’s and Telecoms but after reflecting Managements’ views of average selling prices, product penetration trends 
and their impact on the size of the addressable market, as well as impact of the sharp reduction in inventories in the supply 
chain which depressed revenues in the latter half of 2008 and which has continued to impact upon 2009.
Contingencies have been applied to reduce the cash flows in recognition of the uncertain economic climate. Downside 
sensitivities have been applied to the cash flow estimates to assess the impact upon the headroom over the carrying value of 
the assets and provide further comfort as to the value in use. Handset Products has the greatest amount of headroom and 
Performance Materials the least. The latter is a reflection on the particularly conservative assumptions applied to that forecast 
and even then revenues would have to be some 10% less than forecast for each period before some form of impairment 
would have to be considered.
Other acquired intangible assets
Assets in this class are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits. 
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets:
 Brand names – 5 years
 Trade secrets – 8 to 15 years
 Trade marks and names – 5 to 15 years
 Patents – the remaining duration of the 17 year legal right
 Licence – the remaining duration of the 20 year legal right
 Customer relationships – 10 years
The expected life assigned to acquired customer relationships is an estimate and is not secured by any legal obligation on 
the customer to continue business with the Group for any finite period. Other than goodwill, the Group does not hold any 
intangible assets with an indefinite life.
 18 Business combinations
Acquisition of businesses in 2008
In February 2008, Ezurio Limited, a UK based supplier of machine to machine solutions for wireless data applications was 
acquired for a total consideration of £13.7m. This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition and all intangible 
assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as 
goodwill in the financial statements.
Book and fair values of the net assets of the business acquired were as follows:
Book 
values
£m
Fair
values
to the
Group
£m
   
Property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1
Intangible assets 0.1 0.8
Inventories 0.7 0.7
Trade and other receivables 1.0 1.0
Income tax receivable 0.5 0.5
Trade and other payables (1.0)  (1.0)  
Deferred tax liabilities – (0.2)  
   
Net assets acquired 1.4 1.9
  
Goodwill arising on acquisition 11.8
 
Consideration 13.7
 
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash consideration (including transaction costs) (13.5)  
Deferred cash consideration (0.5)  
Net cash acquired 0.3
 
 (13.7)  
 
The Group has acquired a 100% interest in the acquisition noted above. Underlying loss before tax for the entity acquired in 
the period totals £1.0m since acquisition. If the acquisition had been held for the full year, revenues would have been £0.6m 
higher, at £635.9m and profits would have been £0.2m lower, at £26.3m.
Details of the Group’s significant subsidiaries are disclosed in the list of ‘Principal subsidiaries’ on page 87.  70    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 18 Business combinations (continued)
Acquisition of businesses in 2007
The Group purchased three businesses during 2007 for a total consideration of £83.5m in cash, all of these purchases have 
been accounted for as acquisitions. All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual excess 
over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
Book and fair values of the net assets of businesses acquired, stated at rates of exchange at the date of acquisition were
as follows:
 
Book 
values
£m
Fair
values
to the
Group
£m
   
Property, plant and equipment 1.3 1.3
Intangible assets – 31.1
Inventories 3.3 3.3
Trade and other receivables 7.8 7.5
Income tax recoverable / (payable)  0.3 (1.2)  
Trade and other payables (6.3)  (6.3)  
Deferred tax liabilities (1.0)  (10.3)  
   
Net assets acquired 5.4 25.4
  
Goodwill arising on acquisition 58.1
 
Consideration 83.5
 
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash consideration (including transaction costs)  (82.4)  
Deferred cash consideration (2.7)  
Net cash acquired 1.6
 
 (83.5)  
 
In January 2007, AeroComm Inc, a USA based supplier of wireless communications solutions was acquired for a 
consideration of £19.1m. In February 2007, Cushcraft Holdings Corporation, a USA based designer and manufacturer of 
antennae and accessory products was acquired for a consideration of £45.9m. Also in February 2007, M2sys Co., Ltd, a 
South Korean based supplier of actuation devices, was acquired for £17.0m. The Group has acquired a 100% interest in 
all of the acquisitions noted above. Underlying profit before tax for the entities acquired in the period totals £11.9m since 
acquisition. If all of the acquisitions noted above had been held for the full year, revenues would have been £7.8m higher at 
£572.1m and profits would have been £1.4m higher, at £52.9m. 
 19 Inventories
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Raw materials and consumables 28.9 23.8
Work in progress 0.9 1.9
Finished goods 50.4 29.7
   
80.2 55.4
   
Expenses relating to inventories written down during the period totalled £1.6m (2007, £0.6m). Laird PLC    71   
note
 20 Trade and other receivables
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Trade receivables 110.2 131.8
Other receivables 11.8 24.9
Prepayments and accrued income 7.0 3.2
   
129.0 159.9
   
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Sterling 0.6 0.4
Euros 8.1 13.6
US dollars 67.3 73.3
Renminbi 23.9 30.2
Others 10.3 14.3
   
110.2 131.8
   
Out of the carrying amount of trade receivables of £110.2m (2007, £131.8m), £57.5m relates to ten major customers
(2007, £76.6m).
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for 
impairment. As at 31 December 2008, trade receivables at nominal value of £3.2m (2007, £1.3m) were impaired and fully 
provided for. 
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
   
At 1 January 1.3 2.0
Charge for the year 1.5 0.5
Amounts written off (0.3)  –
Unused amounts reversed (0.3)  –
Acquired / (disposed of)  0.2 (1.2)  
Foreign currency adjustment 0.8 –
   
At 31 December 3.2 1.3
   
As at 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Total
Neither past
due nor
impaired
Less than
30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days
More than
90 days
£m £m £m £m £m £m
       
31 December 2008 110.2 80.3 19.7 5.5 1.7 3.0
31 December 2007 131.8 101.6 17.6 5.9 3.2 3.5
       
The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical 
information relating to counterparty default rates is used.
 21 Cash
2008 2007
 £m £m
   
Cash at bank and in hand 46.9 32.8
   
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, “Cash and cash equivalents” comprises the following at 31 December:
2008 2007
 £m £m
   
Cash at bank and in hand 46.9 32.8
Bank overdrafts – (0.4)  
   
46.9 32.4
    72    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 22 Borrowings
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Current:
Bank overdrafts – 0.4
Short term borrowings 1.3 0.2
Acquisition related Loan Notes due 2008 – 2.5
US Private Placement loans due 2008 – 6.3
Acquisition related Loan Notes due 2009 6.3 –
   
7.6 9.4
   
Non-current:
Acquisition related Loan Notes due 2009 – 4.5
US Private Placement loans due 2010/2012 7.0 5.0
US Private Placement loans due 2014/2016 97.0 69.9
Bilateral revolving bank loans 74.8 29.4
   
178.8 108.8
   
Total borrowings 186.4 118.2
   
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
Within one year
   Bank 1.3 0.6
   Other 6.3 8.8
Between one and two years 
   Other – 4.5
Between two and five years
   Bank 74.8 29.4
   Other 7.0 5.0
In five years or more
   Other 97.0 69.9
   
Total borrowings 186.4 118.2
   
The impact of foreign currency movements on Group borrowings is disclosed in the analysis of movements in net borrowings 
contained within note 32.
Notes
(a) There are no borrowings secured on the assets of subsidiary undertakings (2007, £nil). 
(b)  US Private Placement loans, arising from private placements of debt with US insurance companies, comprise $10m 
(2007, $22.5m) repayable between 2010 and 2012 at a fixed rate of interest of 7.44% and $140m (2007, $140m) 
repayable between 2014 and 2016 at an average fixed rate of interest of 5.64%.
(c)  The Group had committed bilateral revolving bank loan facilities of £265m which were underwritten in excess of three 
years. Drawings by Group companies under these facilities were £75.1m (2007, £29.2m). Although these drawings are 
repayable within one year they are classified as long term as they can be refinanced under the terms of the facilities. 
(d)  Ancillary costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings are amortised over the term of the facility, using 
the effective interest rate method.
 23 Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
2008 2007
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£m £m £m £m
     
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year 7.3 0.7 4.7 1.0
Later than one year and less than five years 24.7 0.5 14.0 0.9
After five years 2.7 – 2.7 –
     
34.7 1.2 21.4 1.9
      Laird PLC    73   
note
 24 Trade and other payables
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Trade payables 73.4 87.9
Social security costs 1.6 0.8
Other payables 30.2 31.3
Accruals and deferred income 9.9 12.8
   
115.1 132.8
   
 25 Deferred taxes
Deferred tax assets 2008 2007
£m £m
   
Losses 0.7 0.8
Other temporary differences 2.0 0.6
   
2.7 1.4
   
Deferred tax liabilities 2008 2007
£m £m
   
Accelerated capital allowances 53.2 41.4
Other temporary differences 4.6 2.5
   
57.8 43.9
   
Movements on deferred tax liabilities during the year were:
Accelerated tax
depreciation Losses 
Rolled over
gains Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
      
At 1 January 2007 33.4 (2.7)  0.7 2.3 33.7
Acquisitions (4.7)  2.7 – 2.3 0.3
Charged / (credited) to the income statement 2.4 (0.8)  (0.7)  (4.2)  (3.3)  
Charged to the statement of
   recognised income and expense – – – 1.7 1.7
Reclassification –0.8–0.51.3
Fair value of intangible assets acquired 10.6 – – (0.3)  10.3
Foreign currency adjustment (0.3)  – – 0.2 (0.1)  
      
At 1 January 2008 41.4 – – 2.5 43.9
Credited to the income statement (0.2)  – – (0.3)  (0.5)  
Credited to the statement of
   recognised income and expense – – – (0.9)  (0.9)  
Reclassification (2.1)  – – 2.3 0.2
Fair value of intangible assets acquired 0.2 – – – 0.2
Foreign currency adjustment 13.9 – – 1.0 14.9
      
At 31 December 2008 53.2 – – 4.6 57.8
      
Deferred tax assets have been established in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences where it is probable that 
these assets will be recovered.
Unrecognised tax losses
Deferred tax assets have not been established on trading losses of £16.4m (2007, £5.7m) where it is unlikely that future relief 
would be available at the balance sheet date. Of these losses, £5.1m (2007, £1.4m) have expiry dates between 2009 and 
2028 and £11.3m (2007, £4.5m) are available indefinitely. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on other deductible 
temporary differences of £19.1m (2007, £9.6m) where their use is restricted.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments
Deferred tax of £2.6m (2007, £nil) has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where it is likely 
there will be income tax consequences attached to the payment of dividends. Deferred tax of £1.7m (2007, £2.8m) has not 
been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where it is possible that 
such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Change in UK Corporation tax rate
The UK Corporation tax rate decreased from 30% to 28% from 1 April 2008.  74    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 26 Other non-current liabilities
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Other creditors 2.6 1.7
Accruals and deferred income 0.2 0.4
   
2.8 2.1
   
 27 Provisions
 
Warranty 
claims Other Total
£m £m £m
    
At 1 January 2008 
Current 6.0 1.1 7.1
Non-current – 3.7 3.7
    
6.0 4.8 10.8
Utilised (0.4)  (0.6)  (1.0)  
Foreign currency adjustment – 1.2 1.2
    
At 31 December 2008 5.6 5.4 11.0
    
Analysed as:
Current 5.6 1.4 7.0
Non-current – 4.0 4.0
    
5.6 5.4 11.0
    
Warranty claims are in respect of potential liabilities arising from the disposal of businesses.
Other provisions consist primarily of amounts provided in respect of events arising from trade and various other provisions 
that do not fit into distinct categories. The timing of cash outflows for warranty claims and other provisions are by their 
nature uncertain and dependent upon the outcome of related events. The best estimates are shown in the table above. 
 28 Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the 
notes to the financial statements (note 2). 
Financial assets
The financial assets of the Group comprised:
2008
£m
2007
£m
   
Current
Cash at bank and in hand (note 21) 46.9 32.8
Trade and other receivables (note 20) 119.2 153.8
Derivative financial instruments 0.5 –
   
166.6 186.6
   
Non-current
Other non-current receivables 1.0 0.7
   
1.0 0.7
    Laird PLC    75   
note
 28 Financial instruments (continued)
Financial liabilities
The financial liabilities of the Group comprised:
2008
£m
2007
£m
   
Current
Borrowings (note 22) 7.6 9.4
Derivative financial instruments 2.9 –
Trade and other payables (note 24) 114.2 131.6
   
124.7 141.0
   
Non-current
Borrowings (note 22) 178.8 108.8
Other payables (note 26) 2.8 2.1
   
181.6 110.9
   
Interest rate risk profile of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest 
rate risk:
Year ended 31 December 2008 Within
1 year
1 – 2 
Years
2 – 3 
Years
3 – 4
Years
4 – 5
Years
More
than 5 
Years Total
        
Fixed rate
$10m Loan Notes at 7.44% due 2010/2012 – 2.3 2.3 2.4 – – 7.0
$97m Loan Notes at 5.59% due 2014 – –––– 67.3 67.3
$43m Loan Notes at 5.76% due 2016 – –––– 29.7 29.7
        
Sub Total – 2.3 2.3 2.4 – 97.0 104.0
        
Floating rate
Cash (46.9)  ––––– (46.9)  
Bank overdrafts – ––––––
Bilateral revolving bank loans – – – 74.8 – – 74.8
$9m floating rate Loan Notes 6.3 ––––– 6.3
Short term bank loans 1.3 ––––– 1.3
Interest rate swap (0.5)  ––––– (0.5)  
         
Sub Total (39.8)  – – 74.8 – – 35.0
        
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. 
Interest on the financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
Year ended 31 December 2007 Within
1 year
1 – 2 
Years
2 – 3 
Years
3 – 4
Years
4 – 5
Years
More
than 5 
Years Total
        
Fixed rate
$12.5m Loan Notes at 7.24% due 2008 6.3 ––––– 6.3
$10m Loan Notes at 7.44% due 2010/2012 – – 1.6 1.7 1.7 – 5.0
$97m Loan Notes at 5.59% due 2014 – –––– 48.4 48.4
$43m Loan Notes at 5.76% due 2016 – –––– 21.5 21.5
        
Sub Total 6.3 – 1.6 1.7 1.7 69.9 81.2
        
Floating rate
Cash (32.8)  ––––– (32.8)  
Bank overdrafts 0.4 ––––– 0.4
Bilateral revolving bank loans – – – – 29.2 – 29.2
$14m floating rate Loan Notes 2.5 4.5 – – – – 7.0
Short term bank loans 0.2 – – – 0.2 – 0.4
        
Sub Total (29.7)  4.5 – – 29.4 – 4.2
         76    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 28 Financial instruments (continued)
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group holds interest rate swap contracts to manage interest rate exposure with an underlying notional principal amount 
of $70m (£48.7m). The contracts have not been designated as fair value hedges and the increase in the fair value during 
2008 of £0.5m (2007, £1.2m), has been taken to the income statement. 
The Group also holds forward foreign exchange contracts to manage foreign exchange exposures. The forward contracts 
have a principal value of £70.6m (2007, £nil) and are mainly denominated in US dollar, Renminbi and Indian rupee. These 
contracts have not been designated as cash flow hedges and the decrease in fair value during 2008 of £2.9m has been 
taken to the income statement.
Interest rate and currency profile
The Group’s policy is to maintain an appropriate balance between variable and fixed interest rate borrowings. Interest rate 
swaps and similar instruments are used to manage interest costs. $70m (£48.7m) of US Private Placement loans were 
swapped from fixed to variable interest rates for a five year term, expiring in 2009.
Interest rate risk
The following table shows the sensitivity to a change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s 
profit before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings). There is no impact on the Group’s equity. The interest 
rates considered are sterling and US dollars, being the currencies in which the Group has historically issued debt and held 
investments.
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes 
those recognised at fair value as well as all non-derivative floating rate financial instruments. Where the Group has taken 
out fixed to variable interest rate swaps, the impact from changes in interest rates is also included for the purpose of the 
sensitivity analysis.
Effect on profit before tax
£m
  
2008
50 basis points increase in US dollar interest rates 0.3
50 basis points increase in sterling interest rates 0.2
A 50 basis point decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect.
2007
50 basis points increase in US dollar interest rates 0.3
50 basis points increase in sterling interest rates –
A 50 basis point decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect.
Credit risk
Laird Technologies’ customer base is largely focused in the global electronics market where it has leading positions in its 
principal products with customers who themselves have significant market shares. Inevitably this results in levels of business 
and trade receivables that are material in the overall Group context. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to 
the carrying amount of the financial assets.
Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to transactional currency exposures on sales and purchases denominated in currencies other than 
the functional currency of the subsidiary. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US dollar, Euro and Renminbi. 
The Group policy is to match out the sales and purchases in these currencies wherever possible and then hedge out the 
residual exposures.
The following table shows the sensitivity to a possible change in US dollar, Euro and Renminbi exchange rates against 
sterling with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s profit before tax (due to changes in the fair value of monetary 
assets, liabilities and forward currency contracts) and the Group’s equity (due to changes in the fair value of forward currency 
hedges and net investment hedges). 
Effect on profit 
before tax
Effect on
equity
£m £m
   
2008
10% appreciation of the US dollar (3.6)  10.3
10% appreciation of the Euro 0.1 –
10% appreciation of the Renminbi 0.2 –
2007
10% appreciation of the US dollar (4.2)  9.1
10% appreciation of the Euro 0.9 –
10% appreciation of the Renminbi 1.3 –
A 10% depreciation of the stated currencies would have an equal and opposite effect.  Laird PLC    77   
note
 28 Financial instruments (continued)
Net investment hedging
Included in borrowings are US $149.4m of debt (£103.9m) which have been designated as a hedge of the net investments 
in the United States subsidiaries, Czk 394.0m (£14.2m) designated as a hedge of the net investment in the Czech Republic 
subsidiary and Sek 158.9m (£14.0m) designated as a hedge of the net investment in Swedish subsidiaries. Comparative 
figures for 2007 were US$ 181.7m (£91.3m), Czk 374.1m (£10.3m) and Sek 122.7m (£9.6m). These amounts are being 
used to hedge the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments. Gains or losses on the retranslation of 
the borrowings are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries.
Liquidity risk
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2008 and 2007 based on 
contractual undiscounted payments.
Year ended 31 December 2008
On
demand
£m
Within 1
Year
£m
1 to 5
Years
£m
More
than 5
Years
£m
Total
£m
      
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 0.7 12.6 178.1 33.3 224.7
Trade and other payables – 114.2 2.8 – 117.0
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 2.9 – – 2.9
      
0.7 129.7 180.9 33.3 344.6
      
Year ended 31 December 2007
On
demand
£m
Within 1
Year
£m
1 to 5
Years
£m
More
than 5
Years
£m
Total
£m
      
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 0.4 14.2 60.4 76.8 151.8
Interest rate swaps – 0.2 (0.1)  – 0.1
Trade and other payables – 131.6 2.1 – 133.7
      
0.4 146.0 62.4 76.8 285.6
      
The Group ensures that there are sufficient levels of committed facilities, cash and cash equivalents in place to meet its 
financial commitments as they fall due.
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
The Group’s financial policy is to maintain committed borrowing facilities, which provide substantial headroom over and 
above its day to day borrowing requirements. 
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December were as follows:
2008
£m
2007
£m
   
Expiring between three and four years 189.9 –
Expiring between four and five years – 165.8
   
189.9 165.8
   
Loan covenants
The principal covenants in the Group’s committed loan facilities and loan note agreements that place restrictions on net 
borrowings are based on UK GAAP and are set out below:
Interest cover
The interest cover covenant is for earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax and amortisation (“EBITA”) to be not less 
than 2.5 times interest payable.
Net borrowings: EBITDA ratio
Net borrowings must not exceed 3.5 times earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
(“EBITDA”).
The Group was in compliance with the covenants detailed above at 31 December 2008.
Fair value of financial instruments
The US Private Placement loans with a book value of £104.0m (2007, £81.2m) have an estimated fair value of £95.2m 
(2007, £78.1m) which has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing coupon rates as at 31 December 2008.
There are no material differences between fair value and book value on any of the other financial instruments. 78    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 29 Authorised and issued share capital
2008 2007
Authorised £m £m
     
248,888,888 (2007, 248,888,888) ordinary shares 
     of 28.125p 70.0 70.0
     
2008 2007
Issued and fully paid Shares £m Shares £m
     
Ordinary shares of 28.125p each 
At 1 January 177,262,248 49.8 198,174,845 49.5
Issued for exercise of share options 272,556 0.1 1,245,176 0.3
8 for 9 share consolidation –– (22,157,773)  –
     
At 31 December 177,534,804 49.9 177,262,248 49.8
     
During the year 272,556 ordinary shares were issued under the Company’s 2003 executive share option scheme for a 
consideration of £861,054 (2007, 1,026,712 ordinary shares were issued under the Company’s 2003 executive share option 
scheme for a consideration of £2,522,583 and 218,464 ordinary shares were issued under the Company’s 1994 executive 
share option scheme for a consideration of £680,933).
177,534,804 ordinary shares of 28.125p each were in issue at the year end (2007, 177,262,248 shares of 28.125p each). 
On 11 June 2007 a share consolidation took place whereby every 9 existing issued and unissued ordinary shares of 25p 
each were consolidated into 8 new ordinary shares of 28.125p each. 
At 31 December 2008, options to subscribe for 2,296,882 ordinary shares at prices between 161p and 587.5p were 
outstanding under the Company’s executive share option schemes (2007, 2,272,388 ordinary shares at prices between 161p 
and 587.5p). Options outstanding under the schemes are held by 18 individuals and are exercisable at various times up to 
16 March 2018. No further options have been granted since the year end.
 30 Share based payments
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 39 to 46, sets out the general terms and conditions including vesting 
requirements for the Share Price Improvement Plan (SPIP), Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the 1994 Share Option Scheme 
and the 2003 Executive Share Option Plans. Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) vest 3 years after they 
have been awarded to the employee, provided the employee is still employed by the Group. 
All share based payments are equity settled. An expense of £1.8m was recognised in the year (2007, £2.0m) before 
employer’s national insurance and was based on the fair value of the LTIP shares awarded, the RSP shares awarded, the 
SPIP shares awarded and the share options granted.
The following table shows the number of SPIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, and those granted during the year.
2008 2007
Number Number
   
Outstanding as at 1 January – –
Granted during the year 666,665 –
   
Outstanding as at 31 December 666,665 –
   
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, and those granted during the year.
2008 2007
Number Number
   
Outstanding as at 1 January 1,048,289 1,037,122
Granted during the year 297,050 266,750
Lapsed during the year (398,000)  –
Vested and exercised during the year (383,539)  (255,583)  
   
Outstanding as at 31 December 563,800 1,048,289
    Laird PLC    79   
note
 30 Share based payments (continued)
The following table shows the number of RSP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, and those granted during the year.
2008 2007
Number Number
   
Outstanding as at 1 January 297,100 202,400
Granted during the year 289,956 163,120
Lapsed during the year (78,040)  (16,920)  
Vested and exercised during the year (22,500)  (51,500)  
   
Outstanding as at 31 December 486,516 297,100
   
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options 
issued under the 1994 Share Option Scheme.
2008 2007
2008
Number
WAEP
(p)  
2007
Number
WAEP
(p)  
     
Outstanding as at 1 January
 Option prices 132-236p 236,357 161 290,443 159
 Option prices 237-330p 72,114 302 121,958 293
 Option prices 331-431p –– 114,534 403
     
308,471 194 526,935 243
Exercised
 Option prices 132-236p –– (54,086)  150
 Option prices 237-330p –– (49,844)  278
 Option prices 331-431p –– (114,534)  403
Expired –– ––
Forfeited –– ––
     
–– 308,471 194
Outstanding as at 31 December
 Option prices 132-236p 236,357 161 236,357 161
 Option prices 237-330p 72,114 302 72,114 302
 Option prices 331-431p –– ––
     
308,471 194 308,471 194
     
Exercisable at 31 December 308,471 194 308,471 194
     
As at 1 January, options over 236,357 shares (2007, 236,357 shares) and at 31 December options over 236,357 shares 
(2007, 236,357 shares) were issued and a charge recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 and resulted in a charge against 
profits. The balance of the share options were granted prior to 7 November 2002 and do not result in a charge against profits 
in accordance with the transitional arrangements of IFRS 2. No options from the above scheme were exercised during 2008, 
the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in 2007 was 542p. For the share options 
outstanding at 31 December 2008, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 3.3 years (2007, 4.4 years).  80    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 30 Share based payments (continued)
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options 
issued under the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan.
2008 2007
2008
Number
WAEP
(p)  
2007
Number
WAEP
(p)  
     
Outstanding as at 1 January
 Option prices 132-236p 236,791 195 676,602 195
 Option prices 237-323p 1,126,376 307 1,723,883 299
 Option prices 324-458p 334,000 458 334,000 458
 Option prices 459-588p 266,750 588 ––
     
1,963,917 357 2,734,485 293
Issued 297,050 500 266,750 588
Exercised
 Option prices 132-236p –– (439,811)  195
 Option prices 237-323p (272,556)  316 (586,901)  284
 Option prices 324-458p –– ––
 Option prices 459-588p –– ––
Forfeited –– (10,606)  323
     
1,988,411 384 1,963,917 357
Outstanding as at 31 December
 Option prices 132-236p 236,791 195 236,791 195
 Option prices 237-323p 853,820 304 1,126,376 307
 Option prices 324-458p 334,000 458 334,000 458
 Option prices 459-588p 563,800 541 266,750 588
     
1,988,411 384 1,963,917 357
     
Exercisable at 31 December 1,090,611 281 579,975 240
     
All options in the table above were recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as noted above. The weighted average share price 
at the date of exercise for the options exercised was 508p (2007, 571p). For the share options outstanding at 31 December 
2008, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.8 years (2007, 7.3 years). 85,901 options (2007, 85,901) in the 
price range 132p to 236p, 341,911 options (2007, 404,589) in the price range 237p to 323p, 334,000 options (2007, 
334,000) in the price range 324p to 458p and 563,800 (2007, 266,750) in the price range 459p to 588p are subject to the 
higher performance targets set out in the table on page 43 of the Directors’ remuneration report.
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including the market based performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. The non-market company performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
The weighted average fair value (in pence) of SPIP , LTIP , RSP and share options granted during the year was as follows:
2008 2007
   
SPIP 65 –
LTIP 242 439
RSP 429 545
Share options 127 162
The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008.
SPIP SPIP
LTIP
& RSP
LTIP
& RSP ESOP ESOP
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Dividend Yield (%) 2.5 – 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5
Expected Share Price volatility (%) 25 – 25 25 25 25
Expected comparator volatility (%) n/a – 20 20 n/a n/a
Risk-free interest rate (%) 4.4 – n/a n/a 4.1 5.3
Expected life of LTIP/option (years) 5.0 – 3.0 3.0 7.0 7.0
Weighted average share price (p) 532.0 – 500.0 587.3 500.0 587.5 Laird PLC    81   
note
 30 Share based payments (continued)
The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise 
patterns that may occur. 
The expected share price volatility is based on historical volatility; average of monthly activity over the last three years. 
Expected volatility reflects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily 
prove to be the actual outcome. Dividends are not payable on shares prior to vesting and this is taken into account in 
calculating the fair value. 
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting.
 31 Reconciliation of movements in equity
Ordinary
share Share Retained Translation Treasury
capital premium earnings reserve shares Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
       
At 1 January 2007 49.5 266.0 155.4 (59.0)  (2.7)  409.2
Total recognised income
   and expense for the year – – 129.7 24.4 – 154.1
Transfer between reserves – – (37.9)  37.9 – –
Exercise of share options 0.3 2.9––– 3.2
Share based payments – – 2.0 – – 2.0
Vesting of LTIPs – – (0.8)  – 0.8 –
Dividends paid – – (120.0)  – – (120.0)  
       
At 1 January 2008 49.8 268.9 128.4 3.3 (1.9)  448.5
Total recognised income
   and expense for the year – – 5.6 149.2 – 154.8
Exercise of share options 0.1 0.8––– 0.9
Share based payments – – 1.8 – – 1.8
Treasury shares – – – – 0.4 0.4
Vesting of LTIPs – – (1.3)  – 1.3 –
Dividends paid – – (21.1)  – – (21.1)  
       
At 31 December 2008 49.9 269.7 113.4 152.5 (0.2)  585.3
       
The investment in Laird shares as held by the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“ESOP”), as described on page 45 of the 
Directors’ remuneration report, are treated as treasury shares for accounting purposes. At 31 December 2008 the ESOP held 
204,048 shares (2007, 610,087 shares) which all relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan. The shares held by the ESOP had a 
total market value at that date of £0.3m (2007, £3.5m). 82    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 32 Additional cash flow information
Cash generation from operations
Continuing operations 2008 2007
 £m £m
   
Net profit after taxation 14.3 39.7
Depreciation and other non-cash items
   Depreciation 12.4 10.3
   Amortisation of capitalised development costs 3.1 2.0
   Exceptional fixed asset write downs 1.8 3.1
   Exceptional inventory write downs 1.6 0.2
   Profit / (loss) on disposal of fixed assets (0.2)  0.1
   Capitalised development costs (7.3)  (3.8)  
   Share based payments 1.8 1.8
   Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 11.4 10.2
   Financial instruments – fair value adjustments 2.4 (1.2)  
   Pension charges 0.6 0.2
Other net finance costs 7.9 9.1
Taxation 12.2 11.8
Pension contributions (1.0)  (14.1)  
Changes in working capital 
   Inventories (5.2)  (19.8)  
   Trade and other receivables 56.3 (41.5)  
   Trade, other payables and provisions (45.7)  39.5
   
5.4 (21.8)  
   
Cash generated from continuing operations 66.4 47.6
   
Discontinued operations 
  
Net profit after taxation – 88.0
Profit on disposal of businesses before taxation – (85.3)  
Depreciation and other non-cash items
   Depreciation – 1.7
   Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – 0.3
Taxation – 0.8
Changes in working capital – (10.7)  
   
Cash flow from discontinued operations – (5.2)  
   
Cash generated from operations 66.4 42.4
   
Note:
(a)  Working capital movements from continuing operations are after creditor increases of £6.8m (2007, £3.9m increases) in 
respect of exceptional costs of redundancy and restructuring. Laird PLC    83   
note
 32 Additional cash flow information (continued)
Net cash outflow on acquisitions and disposals
 2008 2007
 £m £m
   
Acquisition of businesses
Consideration:
Cash consideration (13.5)  (80.6)  
Net cash acquired 0.3 1.6
   
 (13.2)  (79.0)  
Deferred consideration paid (4.5)  (2.4)  
    
Net cash outflow on acquisition of businesses (17.7)  (81.4)  
   
Disposal of businesses
Consideration:
Net cash consideration
   Current year disposals - 219.4
   Prior year disposals 11.5 (0.2)  
   
Net cash consideration 11.5 219.2
Cash disposed of – (0.1)  
Borrowings disposed of – 0.8
   
Net cash inflow on disposal of businesses 11.5 219.9
   
The total disposal consideration and major classes of assets and liabilities sold during 2008, stated at average exchange 
rates, is as follows:
 2008 2007
 £m £m
   
Assets and liabilities disposed of other than cash
   Property, plant and equipment – 27.3
   Intangible assets (including goodwill)  – 56.2
   Inventories – 39.3
   Receivables – 39.2
   Payables – (38.6)  
   Borrowings – (0.8)  
   
 – 122.6
   
Cash and cash equivalents relating to the disposal in 2007:
   Cash consideration (after transaction costs)  12.3 219.4
   Cash disposed of – (0.1)  
   
Net cash inflow from disposal during the year 12.3 219.3
   
Gross consideration for the disposal in 2007 was £242.5m of which £12.5m was deferred for one year. 84    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 32 Additional cash flow information (continued)
Analysis of movements in net borrowings
At 1
January Cash Acquisitions Non-cash Exchange
At 31 
December
Year to 31 December 2008 2008 flow and disposals changes differences 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m
       
Cash at bank 32.8 1.2 – – 12.9 46.9
Overdrafts (0.4)  0. 4––––
Loans due within one year (9.0)  (2.2)  – (4.9)  8.5 (7.6)  
Loans due after more than one year (108.8)  (14.6)  – 4.9 (60.3)  (178.8)  
       
Total (85.4)  (15.2)  – – (38.9)  (139.5)  
       
At 1
January Cash Non-cash Exchange
At 31 
December
Year to 31 December 2007 2007 flow Acquisitions changes differences 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
       
Cash at bank 44.0 (12.5)  – – 1.3 32.8
Overdrafts – (0.4)  – – – (0.4)  
Loans due within one year (4.7)  3.7 0.6 (8.7)  0.1 (9.0)  
Loans due after more than one year (148.1)  28.5 – 8.7 2.1 (108.8)  
Finance leases (0.3)  0.1 0.2 – – –
       
Total (109.1)  19.4 0.8 – 3.5 (85.4)  
       
 33 Capital commitments
2008
£m
2007
£m
   
Future capital expenditure not provided in the accounts
   Contracts placed 2.5 1.1
   
 34 Contingent liabilities
There are legal claims against the Company or its subsidiary undertakings but none where the Board takes the view that it is 
likely that damages will be awarded against the Group which would have a materially adverse effect on its financial position. 
 35  Retirement benefit obligations
Pension schemes
The Group operates a number of pension schemes of both the defined benefit and defined contribution types.
14 employees (2007, 15) are members of two different defined benefit schemes and these schemes have approximately 
1,700 (2007, 2,100) deferred and current pensioners. The employer contributions made to these schemes during the year 
were £1.0m (2007, £14.1m). 
The total assessed value of the schemes’ assets at 31 December 2008, at their market value, is estimated at £84.3m 
(2007, £97.9m) and the liabilities estimated at £82.0m (2007, £88.9m). 
The Group has adopted IFRIC 14 which, depending on the rules of individual schemes, allows the Group to recognise 
pensions surpluses on the balance sheet where there is an unconditional right to a refund. The resultant aggregate net 
pension asset under IAS 19 is £0.1m (2007, £8.1m asset). 
On 31 July 2008 The Laird Group Executive Benefits Plan, the Crompton Limited Pension Scheme and the Linear Limited 
Retirement Benefits Scheme merged with The Laird Group 1977 Benefits Plan. Following the merger the combined scheme 
changed its name to the Laird Pension Scheme and is the only funded plan in the Group. Laird PLC    85   
note
 35  Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
The market value of the schemes’ assets, the present value of the schemes’ liabilities and the net pension assets and liability 
under IAS 19 at 31 December were as follows:
Schemes 
in surplus 
with a right 
to a refund
Other 
schemes Total
Schemes
in surplus
with a right
to a refund 
Other 
schemes Total
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
       
Annuities 8.4 – 8.4 3.9 4.9 8.8
Equities 29.3 – 29.3 32.9 8.3 41.2
Gilts and bonds 42.0 – 42.0 31.0 9.8 40.8
Other including cash 4.6 – 4.6 7.0 0.1 7.1
       
Total market value of assets 84.3 – 84.3 74.8 23.1 97.9
Present value of scheme liabilities (78.1)  (3.9)  (82.0)  (62.3)  (26.6)  (88.9)  
       
Funded status 6.2 (3.9)  2.3  12.5 (3.5)  9.0
       
Disallowed assets (2.2)  – (2.2)  (0.2)  (0.7)  (0.9)  
       
Surplus / (deficit) in the schemes 4.0 (3.9)  0.1 12.3 (4.2)  8.1
       
The expected long term rates of return on gilts and bonds are estimated at 4.3% per annum (2007, 4.9%) and those for 
equities at 8.3% per annum (2007, 8.4%). The returns on the annuities match the relevant liabilities.
Asset return assumptions have been derived by considering best estimates for the expected long term real rates of return 
from the main asset classes. For gilts and corporate bonds, a return in line with the returns available in the markets for these 
assets has been assumed. For equities, a higher rate of return than for bond assets has been assumed, to reflect the greater 
returns anticipated over the long term from a mixture of UK and overseas equities.
The mortality assumption used at both the 2008 and 2007 year end is based on 92 series tables with an allowance for 
improvements in line with the medium cohort based on each member’s year of birth.
The expected lifetime of a participant who is age 65 and the expected lifetime of a participant who will be age 65 in 15 years 
are shown in years below based on the above mortality tables:
Age Males Females
   
65 22.0 24.8
65 in 15 years 22.8 25.7
For IAS 19 the schemes’ liabilities have been calculated under the projected unit method and the main financial assumptions 
were inflation of 3.1% per annum (2007, 3.4%), salary increases of 4.1% per annum (2007, 4.4%) and a discount rate for 
liabilities of 6.1% per annum (2007, 5.7%). 
Analysis of the defined benefit cost for the year ended 31 December:
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Current service cost 0.6 1.1
Gain on settlements or curtailments – (0.8)  
   
Total charge to operating profit 0.6 0.3
   
Expected return on pension investments (6.0)  (5.5)  
Interest on pension liabilities 4.8 4.7
   
Finance income relating to pensions (1.2)  (0.8)  
   
Total credit to income statement before deduction of tax (0.6)  (0.5)  
   
The charge in respect of defined contribution plans was £1.4m during 2008 (2007, £1.5m). 86    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 35 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows:
2008 2007
Total
£m
Funded
plans
£m
Un-funded 
plans
£m
Total
£m
Funded
plans
£m
Un-funded 
plans
£m
       
As at 1 January 88.9 84.8 4.1 93.2 88.8 4.4
   Current service cost 0.6 0.3 0.3 1.1 0.7 0.4
   Interest cost 4.8 4.6 0.2 4.7 4.5 0.2
   Employee contributions ––– 0.1 0.1 –
   Actuarial gains and losses (5.0)  (4.3)  (0.7)  (3.7)  (3.7)  –
   Benefits paid (3.7)  (3.7)  – (4.6)  (3.9)  (0.7)  
   Settlement / curtailment gain (3.6)  (3.6)  – (0.8)  (0.6)  (0.2)  
Acquisition / divestiture ––– (1.1)  (1.1)  -
       
As at 31 December 82.0 78.1 3.9 88.9 84.8 4.1
       
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are analysed as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
   
As at 1 January 97.9 83.2
   Employer contributions 1.0 14.1
   Employee contributions – 0.1
   Benefits paid (3.7)  (3.9)  
   Expected return on assets 6.0 5.5
   Asset gain / (loss)  (13.3)  (0.1)  
   Acquisition / divestiture – (1.0)  
   Plan termination (3.6)  –
     
As at 31 December 84.3 97.9
   
Employer contributions of £1.0m (2007, £14.1m) during the year include £0.7m (2007, £13.6m) of additional payments made 
over and above regular contributions.
History of experience gains and losses:
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
      
Fair value of plan assets 84.3 97.9 83.2 78.2 64.6
Present value of defined benefit obligation (82.0)  (88.9)  (93.2)  (94.6)  (79.4)  
      
Funded status 2.3 9.0 (10.0)  (16.4)  (14.8)  
      
Disallowed assets (2.2)  (0.9)  (0.4)  ––
      
Surplus / (deficit) in the schemes 0.1 8.1 (10.4)  (16.4)  (14.8)  
      
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities (1.8)  (0.1)  – 1.9 –
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets (13.3)  (0.1)  1.2 4.5 (0.1)  
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense 
is a loss of £16.0m (2007, £6.3m loss) since 1 January 2004. The directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial 
gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense from the date 
of inception of the company schemes to 31 December 2003.
The Group estimates that the total value of contributions to defined benefit plans will be £0.3m in 2009.
Within Sweden, the Group operates a plan, included within a multiemployer plan, for its employees which is insured with 
Alecta. This scheme is a defined benefit plan, but Alecta is currently unable to provide sufficient information to report the 
Group’s proportional share of the defined benefit commitments and the assets under management and expenses associated 
with the plan. Consequently, Alecta cannot provide the information regarding the Group’s proportional share of the surplus or 
deficit in the plan. As a result the scheme is reported as if it were a defined contribution plan, although it is actually a defined 
benefit plan. Laird PLC    87   
Principal subsidiaries
The following were the principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2008. All subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned and 
operate principally in the country of incorporation or registration unless stated otherwise. The list excludes (under the provisions of 
section 231 of the Companies Act 1985) certain subsidiary undertakings which do not materially affect the accounts.
Name of company
Country of incorporation
 or registration Nature of business
Laird Technologies
AeroComm, Inc.* USA Wireless Systems
Antenex, Inc.* USA Antennae products
Centurion Electronics (Shanghai) Limited* China Antennae products
Centurion Wireless Components (M) SDN. BHD* Malaysia Antennae products
Cushcraft Corporation* USA Antennae products
Ezurio Limited* UK Wireless Systems
Kunshan Cateron Electronics Co. Ltd* China EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies Antennagyarto KFT* Hungary Antennae products
Laird Technologies (Beijing) Co., Ltd.* China Antennae and actuation products
Laird Technologies GmbH.* Rosenheim, Germany EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies GmbH.* Hildesheim, Germany Antennae products
Laird Technologies India Private Limited* India Antennae products
Laird Technologies Japan, Inc. * Japan Multiple products
Laird Technologies Korea Y.H.* Korea EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies MAP Co., Ltd.* Korea Actuation products
Laird Technologies S. de R. L. de C. V. * Mexico Multiple products
Laird Technologies (SEA) PTE Limited* Singapore Multiple products
Laird Technologies (Shanghai) Limited* China EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies (Shenzhen) Limited* China Multiple products
Laird Technologies Handset Products (Shenzhen) Limited* China Antennae products
Laird Technologies S.R.O.* Czech Republic EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies Taiwan, Inc.* Taiwan Multiple products
R&F Products, Inc. * USA EMI and thermal products
RecepTec Corp.* USA Antennae products
Steward, Inc.* USA Signal integrity products
Steward (Foshan) Magnetic Materials Co., Ltd* China Signal integrity products
Supercool AB* Sweden Thermal products
Tianjin Laird Technologies Limited* China EMI and thermal products
Thermagon, Inc* USA Thermal products
* Held by a subsidiary undertaking 88    Laird PLC
Five year summary
Trading results 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
      
Revenue
–  continuing operations 635.3 564.3 370.6 259.4 142.8
–  discontinued operations – 72.9 237.7 249.3 325.2
      
Total revenue 635.3 637.2 608.3 508.7 468.0
      
Operating profit
–  continuing operations 68.5 80.0 55.4 37.7 20.7
–  discontinuing operations – 4.4 27.8 27.9 31.2
      
68.5 84.4 83.2 65.6 51.9
Exceptional items (20.3)  (11.0)   – (15.5)   –
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (11.4)  (10.5)  (7.1)  (4.4)  (1.2)  
Profit / (loss) on disposal of businesses – 85.3 (2.1)  (7.8)  3.6
Finance costs (net) before exceptionals (7.9)  (7.6)  (9.9)  (10.5)  (5.6)  
Exceptional finance costs – (1.5)   – – –
Financial instruments – fair value adjustments (2.4)  1.2 0.2 (1.1)   –
      
Profit before tax 26.5 140.3 64.3 26.3 48.7
Taxation (12.2)  (12.6)  (13.6)  (6.1)  (11.5)  
      
Profit after tax 14.3 127.7 50.7 20.2 37.2
      
Underlying profit 60.6 76.8 73.3 55.1 46.4
      
Non-current assets 741.4 541.5 520.4 447.7 390.4
Other current assets 259.5 250.1 237.8 180.7 163.2
      
Net borrowings 139.5 85.4 109.1 148.1 118.6
      
Shareholders’ equity 585.3 448.5 409.2 284.3 260.2
      
Basic earnings per share 8.1 68.7 26.8 12.1 24.0
Basic underlying earnings per share 27.4 34.9 31.7 27.3 24.8
Dividends per share 11.8 61.5 10.3 9.5 9.2
Dividend cover 1. 1. 2. 1. 2.
p p p p p
p p ppp
8p pp6p p
2 1 6 36 Laird PLC    89   
Shareholder information
Financial calendar
31 December 2008  Financial year end
11 March 2009 Announcement of results
8 May 2009 Annual General Meeting
5 June 2009 Record date for final dividend
6 July 2009 Payment of final dividend
July 2009 Announcement of half year results
October 2009 Normal record date for interim dividend
November 2009 Normal payment date for interim dividend 
31 December 2009 Financial year end
Administrative enquiries
Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in Laird 
PLC, such as the loss of a share certificate, dividend 
payments, or a change of address should be directed, in 
the first instance, to the Registrar whose address is:
Capita Registrars
Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge,
Huddersfield HD8 0LA
Telephone 0871 664 0300 
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras)
Telephone (overseas) +44 20 8639 3399
Fax +44 (0)1484 600911
Email ssd@capitaregistrars.com
www.capitashareportal.com
Correspondence should refer to Laird PLC and state clearly 
the registered name and address of the shareholder. Please 
notify the Registrar promptly of any change of address.
Dividend bank mandates
Should you wish dividends to be paid directly
into a bank or building society account and
notification to be sent to your shareholder register address, 
please contact the Company’s Registrar, Capita Registrars, 
for a dividend mandate form.
A number of online facilities are available to you through 
the website of Capita Registrars in respect of your 
shareholding in Laird PLC. To make use of any of these 
facilities, please log on to Capita Registrars’ website at 
www.capitashareportal.com. You will need to register for 
the share portal, on the right hand side select “register for 
the share portal”, then select Laird PLC from their client 
list. You will need to input your surname, investor code and 
postcode as well as input an email address and select a 
password. Should you have any questions please email 
shareportal@capita.co.uk.
Advisers
Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
Financial advisers 
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Principal bankers
HSBC Bank plc
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Bank of China Limited
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
Commerzbank AG
Principal lawyers 
Ashurst
Proskauer Rose LLP
Analysis of shareholders as at 31 December 2008
Size of shareholding
Number 
of holders % of total
Total 
holding % of total
     
Up to 5,000 shares 3,156 86.2 2,685,834 1.5
5,001 to 50,000 shares 280 7.6 4,694,215 2.6
50,001 to 200,000 shares 108 3.0 11,826,263 6.7
Over 200,000 shares 116 3.2 158,328,492 89.2
     
Total 3,660 100.0 177,534,804 100.0
       90    Laird PLC
LAIRD PLC
PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS
  Page      
Statement of directors’ responsibilities  91
Independent auditor’s report  92
Parent company balance sheet 93
Notes to the financial statements of parent company 94 Laird PLC    91   
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
in relation to the accounts
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the independent auditors set out on page 92, is 
made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the 
accounts.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Company for the financial year.
The directors consider that in compiling the accounts on pages 93 to 103, which have been prepared on a going concern basis, the 
Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and 
estimates and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy 
the financial position of the Company which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. They are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 92    Laird PLC
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the Members of Laird PLC
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the 
balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 15. These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting 
policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having 
been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the 
parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the parent company 
Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific 
information that is cross referred from the business review section of the Directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company 
financial statements. The other information comprises only the Directors’ report, the unaudited part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report, the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s review, the Finance Director’s report, the Corporate social responsibility 
report and the Corporate governance report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any 
other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company 
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant 
estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order 
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or 
error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2008; 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor 
London
10 March 2009
Notes:
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Laird PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration 
of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially 
presented on the web site.
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Laird PLC    93   
Parent company balance sheet
as at 31 December
Note
2008
£m
2007
£m
    
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 2 0.3 0.4
Investments 3 770.1 770.1
    
770.4 770.5
    
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 4 12.7 23.5
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 5 300.4 179.7
Cash at bank 7.4 5.3
    
320.5 208.5
    
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings 6 – (6.3)  
Other 8 (58.6)  (10.8)  
    
(58.6)  (17.1)  
    
Net current assets 261.9 191.4
     
Total assets less current liabilities 1,032.3 961.9
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Borrowings 6 (178.7)  (104.1)  
Other 8 (399.2)  (356.4)  
    
(577.9)  (460.5)  
    
Provisions for liabilities (0.2)  (0.3)  
    
Net assets excluding pension deficit 454.2 501.1
Pension deficit 10 (3.9)  (4.2)  
    
450.3 496.9
    
Capital and reserves
Ordinary share capital 11 49.9 49.8
Share premium account 12 269.7 268.9
Special reserve 12 55.5 55.5
Retained earnings 12 75.4 124.6
Treasury shares 12 (0.2)  (1.9)  
    
Equity shareholders’ funds 450.3 496.9
    
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
P J HILL
J C SILVER
Directors 94    Laird PLC
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
of parent company
for the year ended 31 December 2008
Financial statements of parent company
 1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation 
The accounts of Laird PLC are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985. The accounts have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments and valuation of pension 
assets at market value. This is in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards. As consolidated financial information 
has been disclosed under IFRS 7, the parent is exempt from FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. The disclosures 
in respect of the Company are included in the Group accounts. Pensions are disclosed in accordance with FRS 17. The 
financial statements present information about the Company as an individual undertaking and not about the Group.
Profit and loss
As permitted by the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has not presented its own profit 
and loss account. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation of fixed assets evenly over their expected useful lives, principally 
as follows:
Computer equipment  5 years or less
Motor vehicles  4 years
Other plant and machinery 13 years or less
A proportion of one year’s depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Pensions
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to the operating profit or loss 
in the year. The full cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service and gains and losses arising on 
unanticipated settlements or curtailments are also charged to the operating profit or loss in the year. The expected return 
on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the market value of scheme assets at the start of the year and the 
expected increase in liabilities of the schemes are included within other finance (charges)/income. Differences between actual 
and expected returns on assets during the year are recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses in the year 
together with differences from changes in assumptions. The deficit on defined benefit pension schemes, net of deferred tax, 
is reported on the balance sheet as the pension liability. The accounts include pension schemes where the parent company 
is the principal employer.
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Dividends
Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a 
legal liability of the Company.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but which have not reversed at the balance 
sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to 
pay less, or to receive more tax subject to the following:
(a)  Deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary assets such as property unless a binding sale 
agreement exists at the balance sheet date. Where rollover relief is available on an asset then deferred tax is not 
recognised.
(b)  Deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries unless dividends have been accrued as receivable 
or there is a binding agreement to distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date.
(c)  Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Assets are regarded as 
recoverable when it is regarded as more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal 
of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets 
and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Financial assets 
Debtors are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Where the time 
value of money is material, debtors are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the 
Company will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as 
being remote. The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is 
impaired. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired. 
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment. Trade and other receivables 
are discounted when the time value of money is considered material. Laird PLC    95   
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 1. Accounting policies (continued)
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, inclusive of any transaction costs. Measurement after initial 
recognition is at amortised cost, with the changes in the carrying amount being taken through the profit and loss account.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in 
finance income and finance expense.
Derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as currency swap contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge 
its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially 
recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair 
value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts 
with similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for 
similar instruments.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken in 
the profit and loss account. 
Share based payments
In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 20, the expense recognised in the Company profit and loss account 
relates to equity settled grants made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on 1 January 2005.
The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) shares awarded is estimated at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo 
simulation technique, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including 
market based performance conditions. The fair value of share options granted is estimated at the date of grant using a 
binomial lattice method of calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. 
Non-market company performance conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
For grants that ultimately do not vest, charges previously made are reversed except that an expense is recognised for 
awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not 
the market condition is satisfied, provided all the other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as 
vesting as described above. 
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and loss account, 
with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not 
been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share 
based payment, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of 
cancellation or settlement, and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately. 
 2. Tangible assets
The fixed assets of the Company were acquired at a cost of £0.8m (2007, £0.8m) and have accumulated depreciation of 
£0.5m (2007, £0.4m) charged against them. There were no additions nor disposals during the year and depreciation in the 
year was £0.1m (2007, £0.1m).
 3. Investments in subsidiaries 
2008 2007
£m £m
    
Shares in subsidiaries at cost 788.1 788.1
Less provisions for diminution in value (18.0)  (18.0)  
   
770.1 770.1
   
Principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2008 are disclosed in the Laird PLC consolidated financial statements on 
page 87. 96    Laird PLC
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 3. Investments in subsidiaries (continued) 
The movement in the net book value of investments in subsidiaries during the year was as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
   
At 1 January 770.1 417.6
Additions – 362.9
Disposals – (10.4)  
   
At 31 December 770.1 770.1
   
 4. Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 6.4 21.9
Derivative financial instrument 0.5 –
Prepayments and accrued income 0.6 0.5
Taxation 5.2 1.1
   
12.7 23.5
   
 5. Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 300.0 166.9
Derivative financial instruments – 11.3
Deferred tax asset (note 9) 0.4 1.5
   
300.4 179.7
   
 6. Borrowings
2008 2007
Due within one year: £m £m
   
US Private Placement loans 2008 – 6.3
   
 – 6.3
    
Due after more than one year: 
US Private Placement loans 2010/2012 7.0 5.0
US Private Placement loans 2014/2016 97.0 69.9
Bilateral revolving bank loans 74.7 29.2
   
 178.7 104.1
   
Total borrowings 178.7 110.4
   
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Laird PLC    97   
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 6. Borrowings (continued) 
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
Within one year
 Other – 6.3
Between two and five years
 Bank 74.7 29.2
 Other 7.0 5.0
In five years or more
 Other 97.0 69.9
   
Total borrowings 178.7 110.4
   
Notes
(a) Company borrowings are unsecured. 
(b)  US Private Placement loans, arising from private placements of debt with US insurance companies, of $10m 
(2007, $22.5m) are repayable between 2010 and 2012 at a fixed rate of interest of 7.44% and $140m (2007, $140m) are 
repayable between 2014 and 2016 at an average fixed rate of interest of 5.64%.
(c)  The Company had committed bilateral bank loan facilities of £265m which were underwritten for in excess of three years. 
 7. Financial instruments
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” and has not 
disclosed information required by that standard as the Group’s consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is 
included, provide equivalent disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”.
 8. Other creditors
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Due within one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 53.1 5.2
Social security costs 0.2 0.1
Other creditors 1.4 4.2
Accruals and deferred income 1.0 1.3
Derivative financial instruments 2.9 –
   
58.6 10.8
   
Due after more than one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 389.2 355.5
Derivative financial instruments 9.1 –
Taxation 0.9 0.9
   
399.2 356.4
    
 9. Deferred taxation
The main components of deferred tax included within debtors falling due after more than one year are as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Chargeable gains – (0.7)
Other timing differences 0.4 2.2
   
0.4 1.5
   
Movements during the year were:
£m
  
At 1 January 2008 1.5
Provided in the year 0.1
Released in the year (1.2)  
  
At 31 December 2008 0.4
   98    Laird PLC
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 10. Pension schemes
The Company operates two defined benefit schemes.
14 employees (2007, 15) are members of these defined benefit schemes and these schemes have approximately 1,700 
(2007, 1,700) deferred and current pensioners. The employer contributions made to these schemes during the year were 
£1.0m (2007, £14.0m). 
The total assessed value of the schemes’ assets at 31 December 2008 at their market value is estimated at £83.9m 
(2007, £93.9m) and the liabilities estimated at £82.0m (2007, £85.3m). 
On 31 July 2008 The Laird Group Executive Benefits Plan, the Crompton Limited Pension Scheme and the Linear Limited 
Retirement Benefits Scheme merged with The Laird Group 1977 Benefits Plan. Following the merger the combined scheme 
changed its name to the Laird Pension Scheme.
The market value of the schemes’ assets, the present value of the schemes’ liabilities and the net pension liability under 
FRS 17 at 31 December were as follows:
Total Total
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Annuities 8.4 8.8
Equities 29.3 41.2
Gilts and bonds 42.0 40.8
Other including cash 4.2 3.1
   
Total market value of assets 83.9 93.9
Present value of scheme liabilities (82.0)  (85.3)  
   
Funded status 1.9 8.6
   
Disallowed assets (5.8)  (12.8)  
    
Deficit in the schemes (3.9)  (4.2)  
      
The expected long term rates of return on gilts and bonds are estimated at 4.3% per annum (2007, 4.9%) and those for 
equities at 8.3% per annum (2007, 8.4%). The returns on the annuities match the relevant liabilities.
Asset return assumptions have been derived by considering best estimates for the expected long term real rates of return 
from the main asset classes. For gilts and corporate bonds, a return in line with the returns available in the markets for these 
assets has been assumed. For equities, a higher rate of return than for bond assets has been assumed, to reflect the greater 
returns anticipated over the long term from a mixture of UK and overseas equities.
The mortality assumption used at the year end is based on 92 series tables with an allowance for improvements in line with 
the medium cohort based on each member’s year of birth.
For FRS 17 the schemes’ liabilities have been calculated under the projected unit method and the main financial assumptions 
were inflation of 3.1% per annum (2007, 3.4%), salary increases of 4.1% per annum (2007, 4.4%) and a discount rate for 
liabilities of 6.1% per annum (2007, 5.7%).
Analysis of the defined benefit cost for the year ended 31 December:
2008 2007
£m £m
   
Current service cost 0.6 1.1
Past service cost – –
Gain on settlements or curtailments – (0.8)  
   
Total charge to operating profit 0.6 0.3
Expected return on pension investments (6.0)  (5.1)  
Interest on pension liabilities 4.8 4.4
   
Finance income relating to pensions (1.2)  (0.7)  
   
Total credit to profit and loss account before deduction of tax (0.6)  (0.4)  
   
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Laird PLC    99   
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 10. Pension schemes (continued)
Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
     
As at 1 January 85.3 81.5
 Current service cost 0.6 1.1
 Past service cost – –
 Interest cost 4.8 4.4
 Employee contributions - 0.1
 Actuarial gains and losses (5.0)  (3.8)  
 Benefits paid (3.7)  (3.9)  
 Settlement / curtailment gain – (0.8)  
 Acquisition – 6.7
   
As at 31 December 82.0 85.3
   
The defined benefit obligation comprises £3.9m (2007, £4.1m) arising from an unfunded plan, and £78.1m (2007, £81.2m) 
from plans that are wholly or partly funded.
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are analysed as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
   
As at 1 January 93.9 72.0
Employer contributions 1.0 14.0
Employee contributions – 0.1
Benefits paid (3.7)  (3.2)  
Expected return on assets 6.0 5.1
Asset gain / (loss) (13.3)  0.2
Acquisition – 5.7
   
As at 31 December 83.9 93.9
   
Employer contributions of £1.0m during the year include £0.7m of additional payments made over and above regular 
contributions.
History of experience gains and losses:
2008 2007 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m
      
Fair value of plan assets 83.9 93.9 72.0 66.8 14.8
Present value of defined benefit obligation (82.0)  (85.3)  (81.5)  (81.6)  (20.6)  
      
Funded status 1.9 8.6 (9.5)  (14.8)  (5.8)  
      
Disallowed assets (5.8)  (12.8)  –– –
      
Deficit in the scheme (3.9)  (4.2)  (9.5)  (14.8)  (5.8)  
      
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities (1.8)  (0.1)  – 0.5 0.5
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets (13.3)  0.2 0.9 1.9 (0.8)  
The estimated total value of contributions to defined benefit plans will be £0.3m in 2009.  100    Laird PLC
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 11. Authorised and issued share capital
2008 2007
Authorised £m £m
     
248,888,888 (2007, 248,888,888 ) ordinary shares of 28.125p 70.0 70.0
     
2008 2007
Issued and fully paid Shares £m Shares £m
     
Ordinary shares of 28.125p each 
At 1 January 177,262,248 49.8 198,174,845 49.5
Issued for exercise of share options 272,556 0.1 1,245,176 0.3
8 for 9 share consolidation –– (22,157,773)  –
     
At 31 December 177,534,804 49.9 177,262,248 49.8
     
During the year 272,556 ordinary shares were issued under the Company’s 2003 executive share option scheme for a 
consideration of £861,054 (2007, 1,026,712 ordinary shares were issued under the Company’s 2003 executive share option 
scheme for a consideration of £2,522,583 and 218,464 ordinary shares were issued under the Company’s 1994 executive 
share option scheme for a consideration of £680,933).
177,534,804 ordinary shares of 28.125p each were in issue at the year end (2007, 177,262,248 shares of 28.125p each). 
On 11 June 2007 a share consolidation took place whereby every 9 existing issued and unissued ordinary shares of 25p 
each were consolidated into 8 new ordinary shares of 28.125p each. 
At 31 December 2008, options to subscribe for 2,296,882 ordinary shares at prices between 161p and 587.5p were 
outstanding under the Company’s executive share option schemes (2007, 2,272,388 ordinary shares at prices between 
161p and 587.5p). Options outstanding under the schemes are held by 18 individuals and are exercisable at various times 
up to 16 March 2018. No further options have been granted since the year end.
 12. Shareholders’ funds 
Share 
capital
Share
premium
Special
reserve
Profit
and loss
account
Investment
in own
shares Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
       
At 1 January 2007 49.5 266.0 55.5 44.2 (2.7)  412.5
Total recognised gains and  
 losses – – – 199.2 – 199.2
Exercise of share options 0.3 2.9 – – – 3.2
Share based payments – – – 2.0 – 2.0
Grant of LTIPs – – – (0.8)  0.8 –
Dividends paid – – – (120.0)   – (120.0)  
       
At 1 January 2008 49.8 268.9 55.5 124.6 (1.9)  496.9
Total recognised gains and  
 losses – – – (28.6)   – (28.6)  
Exercise of share options 0.1 0.8 – – – 0.9
Share based payments – – – 1.8 – 1.8
Treasury shares – – – – 0.4 0.4
Vesting of LTIPs – – – (1.3)  1.3 –
Dividends paid – – – (21.1)   – (21.1)  
       
At 31 December 2008 49.9 269.7 55.5 75.4 (0.2)  450.3
        
The investment in own shares are those held by the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“ESOP”), as described on page 45 
of the Directors’ remuneration report. At 31 December 2008 the ESOP held 204,048 shares (2007, 610,087 shares) which 
all relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan. The shares held by the ESOP had a total market value at that date of £0.3m 
(2007, £3.5m).
A loss after taxation of £26.5m (2007, £207.8m profit) has been charged to the profit and loss account brought forward 
of the Company after charging exchange losses of £20.0m (2007, £2.9m gains) and crediting dividends from subsidiary 
undertakings of £37.2m (2007, £239.0m ). Movements on equity not recognised in the profit and loss account were a loss 
of £2.1m (2007, £8.6m). The special reserve of £55.5m was created by a transfer from the share premium account under 
High Court Sanction in December 1989. No profit and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by section 
230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Laird PLC    101   
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 13. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2008 the Company had contingent liabilities in respect of guarantees relating to the performance of 
contracts of subsidiary undertakings.
There are legal claims against the Company but none where the Board takes the view that it is likely that damages will be 
awarded against the Group which would have a materially adverse effect on its financial position. 
 14. Share based payments
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 39 to 46, sets out the general terms and conditions including vesting 
requirements for the Share Price Improvement Plan (SPIP), Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the 1994 Share Option Scheme 
and the 2003 Executive Share Option Plans. Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) vest 3 years after they 
have been awarded to the employee, provided the employee is still employed by the Group. 
All share based payments are equity settled. An expense of £1.8m was recognised in the year (2007, £2.0m) before 
employer’s national insurance and was based on the fair value of the LTIP shares awarded, the RSP shares awarded, the 
SPIP shares awarded and the share options granted.
The following table shows the number of SPIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, and those granted during 
the year.
2008 2007
Number Number
    
Outstanding as at 1 January - -
Granted during the year 666,665 -
   
Outstanding as at 31 December 666,665 -
   
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, and those granted during 
the year.
2008 2007
Number Number
     
Outstanding as at 1 January 1,048,289 1,037,122
Granted during the year 297,050 266,750
Lapsed during the year (398,000)  -
Vested and exercised during the year (383,539)  (255,583)  
   
Outstanding as at 31 December 563,800 1,048,289
   
The following table shows the number of RSP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, and those granted during 
the year.
2008 2007
Number Number
    
Outstanding as at 1 January 297,100 202,400
Granted during the year 289,956 163,120
Lapsed during the year (78,040) (16,920)
Vested and exercised during the year (22,500) (51,500)
    
Outstanding as at 31 December 486,516 297,100
   
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options 
issued under the 1994 Share Option Scheme. 102    Laird PLC
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 14. Share based payments (continued)
2008
Number
2008
WAEP
(p)  
2007
Number
2007
WAEP
(p)  
     
Outstanding as at 1 January
 Option prices 132-236p 236,357 161 290,443 159
 Option prices 237-330p 72,114 302 121,958 293
 Option prices 331-431p – – 114,534 403
     
308,471 194 526,935 243
Exercised
 Option prices 132-236p – – (54,086)  150
 Option prices 237-330p – – (49,844)  278
 Option prices 331-431p – – (114,534)  403
Expired – – – –
Forfeited – – – –
     
 – – 308,471 194
     
Outstanding as at 31 December
 Option prices 132-236p 236,357 161 236,357 161
 Option prices 237-330p 72,114 302 72,114 302
 Option prices 331-431p – – – –
     
308,471 194 308,471 194
     
Exercisable at 31 December 308,471 194 308,471 194
     
As at 1 January, options over 236,357 shares (2007, 236,357 shares) and at 31 December options over 236,357 shares 
(2007, 236,357 shares) were issued and a charge recognised in accordance with FRS 20 and resulted in a charge against 
profits. The balance of the share options were granted prior to 7 November 2002 and do not result in a charge against profits 
in accordance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 20. No options from the above scheme were exercised during 2008, 
the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in 2007 was 542p. For the share options 
outstanding at 31 December 2008, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 3.3 years (2007, 4.4 years). 
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options 
issued under the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan.
2008
Number
2008
WAEP
(p)  
2007
Number
2007
WAEP
(p)  
     
Outstanding as at 1 January
 Option prices 132-236p 236,791 195 676,602 195
 Option prices 237-323p 1,126,376 307 1,723,883 299
 Option prices 324-458p 334,000 458 334,000 458
 Option prices 459-588p 266,750 588 – –
     
1,963,917 357 2,734,485 293
Issued 297,050 500 266,750 588
Exercised
 Option prices 132-236p – – (439,811)  195
 Option prices 237-323p (272,556)  316 (586,901)  284
 Option prices 324-458p – – – –
 Option prices 459-588p – – – –
Forfeited – – (10,606)  323
     
1,988,411 384 1,963,917 357
     
Outstanding as at 31 December
 Option prices 132-236p 236,791 195 236,791 195
 Option prices 237-323p 853,820 304 1,126,376 307
 Option prices 324-458p 334,000 458 334,000 458
 Option prices 459-588p 563,800 541 266,750 588
     
1,988,411 384 1,963,917 357
     
Exercisable at 31 December 1,090,611 281 579,975 240
     
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Laird PLC    103   
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 14. Share based payments (continued)
All options in the table above were recognised in accordance with FRS 20 as noted above. The weighted average 
share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised was 508p (2007, 571p). For the share options outstanding 
at 31 December 2008, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.8 years (2007, 7.3 years). 85,901 options 
(2007, 85,901) in the price range 132p to 236p, 341,911 options (2007, 404,589) in the price range 237p to 323p, 334,000 
options (2007, 334,000) in the price range 324p to 458p and 563,800 (2007, 266,750) in the price range 459p to 588p are 
subject to the higher performance targets set out in the table on page 43 of the Directors’ remuneration report.
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including the market based performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. The non-market company 
performance conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating the 
fair value. 
The weighted average fair value (in pence) of SPIP , LTIP , RSP and share options granted during the year was as follows:
2008 2007
   
SPIP 65 -
LTIP 242 439
RSP 429 545
Share options 127 162
The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008.
SPIP SPIP
LTIP
& RSP
LTIP
& RSP ESOP ESOP
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
       
Dividend Yield (%) 2.5 - 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5
Expected Share Price volatility (%) 25 - 25 25 25 25
Expected comparator volatility (%) n/a - 20 20 n/a n/a
Risk-free interest rate (%) 4.4 - n/a n/a 4.1 5.3
Expected life of LTIP/option (years) 5.0 - 3.0 3.0 7.0 7.0
Weighted average share price (p) 532.0 - 500.0 587.3 500.0 587.5
The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise 
patterns that may occur. 
The expected share price volatility is based on historical volatility; average of monthly activity over the last three years. 
Expected volatility reflects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily 
prove to be the actual outcome. Dividends are not payable on shares prior to vesting and this is taken into account in 
calculating the fair value. 
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting.
 15. Auditors’ remuneration
The Company paid £27,000 (2007, £26,000) to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements of 
the Company.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the 
individual accounts of Laird PLC because Group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees 
on a consolidated basis. 104    Laird PLC
Definition
Group Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings
Revenue from acquisitions (£m) Prior year revenue from acquisitions made in the current year and prior year revenue for 
the period not in Laird ownership for acquisitions made in the prior year
Organic revenue growth (%) Current year continuing revenue divided by prior year continuing revenue. Prior year 
continuing revenue is adjusted by adding in revenue from acquisitions (as per above), 
to provide a meaningful comparison year on year
Laird Technologies expenditure 
on R&D as a % of revenue
Laird Technologies expenditure on research and development as a % of Laird 
Technologies revenue
Return on capital employed (%) Underlying profit before interest and tax expressed as a % of the average capital 
employed for the Group over the year
Greenhouse gas emissions 
(kg/£million of revenue)
Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated by applying specific factors to power 
consumption, which is then expressed as a % of revenue
Waste to landfill sites
(kg/£million of revenue)
Total waste to landfill sites expressed as a % of revenue
Energy consumption
(KwH/£million of revenue)
Total energy consumption for the Group in KwH expressed as a % of revenue
Underlying earnings Underlying profit before tax less the underlying tax charge
Underlying EPS (pence) Underlying earnings divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding 
during the year
Underlying profit before tax (£m) Profit before tax excluding the effect of exceptional items, amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or 
loss on disposal of businesses and the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial 
instruments
Underlying profit before
interest and tax (£m)
Underlying profit before tax, as defined above, adding back the net interest charge 
(excluding the fair value of financial instruments)
Underlying operating
profit margin (%)
Underlying profit before interest and tax is expressed as a % of total revenue
Underlying tax charge The tax charge per the income statement is adjusted to exclude the effect of 
discontinued operations, exceptional items and deferred tax on acquired goodwill and 
intangible assets
Effective tax rate (%) The underlying tax charge expressed as a % of underlying profit before tax
Group interest cover The ratio of underlying profit before interest and tax to the annual interest charge within 
the income statement
Operating cash conversion (%) Operating cash flow expressed as a % of underlying profit before tax plus the interest 
charge per the income statement
Net debt: EBITDA The ratio of Group net debt to underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation Designed and produced by Appetite � Illustrator Paul Wearing. Printed by royle print, a Carbon Neutral printing company, on Rev ive uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made 
from post-consumer collected waste. The printer and paper supplier are both accredited to ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard and both are FSC certiﬁ ed. Laird PLC
100 Pall Mall
London SW1Y 5NQ
020 7468 4040
www.laird-plc.com
