 Annual Report and 
Accounts 2009
Value through Innovation
Technology for a connected world  Contents
 01 Financial highlights
 03 Chairman’s statement
 04 Chief Executive’s review
 22 Finance Director’s report
 26 Board of Directors
 28 Directors’ report
 33 Corporate governance report
 36 Corporate social responsibility
 40 Directors’ remuneration report
 47 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
 48 Independent auditor’s report – Group IFRS
 49 Group income statement
 50 Group statement of comprehensive income
 50 Group statement of changes in equity
 51 Group statement of ﬁ nancial position
 52 Group cash ﬂ ow statement
 53 Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
 53 Accounting policies
 85 Principal subsidiaries
 86 Five year summary
 87 Shareholder information
 88 Parent company accounts
 89 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
 90 Independent auditor’s report – Company UK GAAP
 91 Parent company balance sheet
 92 Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements of parent company
104 Key performance indicators  Laird PLC    01   
Financial highlights
 Explanatory notes:
(i)  Laird uses underlying results as key performance indicators. Underlying proﬁ t before tax and underlying earnings per share 
are stated before exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets 
and goodwill, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of ﬁ nancial instruments, 
and acquisition transaction costs. The narrative that follows is based on underlying operating proﬁ t, proﬁ t before tax and 
earnings per share, as the directors believe that these provide a more consistent measure of operating performance.
*  The weighted average number of shares used to calculate earnings per share was 211.6 million in 2009 and 204.3 million 
in 2008, following the Rights Issue announced in October 2009. 2008 earnings and dividends per share have been restated 
for the effect of the Rights Issue.
 The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 contains the Directors’ report on pages 3-46.
 
  2009 2008
  £m £m
Revenue from continuing operations  528.8 635.3  
Underlying proﬁ t before tax from 
continuing operations
(i)
  26.5 60.6  
Proﬁ t before tax from continuing operations  4.6 26.5 
Operating cash ﬂ ow from continuing operations  49.7 48.1 
Net borrowings  45.4 139.5 
Shareholders’ funds  579.6 585.3  
  p/share* p/share*
Underlying earnings from continuing operations
(i)
  9.6 23.8  
Basic earnings from continuing operations  (0.8) 7.0  
Dividend  6.0 10.31   Laird PLC    03   
Strategy
Over recent years Laird has been transformed from 
a diversiﬁ ed industrial group to a focused electronics 
and technology company. We hold, or aim to hold, 
leading positions in specialist markets with long term 
growth characteristics. We possess a broad set of 
complementary proprietary products, obtaining a 
competitive edge through technology and customer 
service allied to a well established low cost 
manufacturing base.
Dividend 
The Board’ s dividend policy is to increase returns to 
shareholders over time, while taking account of both 
the underlying proﬁ tability and cash requirements of 
the business.
The Board believes that a 2009 full year dividend of 
6.0 pence per share (2008, 10.31 pence), is at a level 
which allows funding of growth opportunities while 
pursuing a progressive dividend policy. The Board 
is, accordingly, recommending a ﬁ nal dividend of 
2.53 pence per share (2008, 6.84 pence).
Corporate and Social Responsibility
As a member of the FTSE4Good index, we recognise 
the need to balance our social and environmental 
impacts in a manner that best serves the needs of all 
our stakeholders. We are fully committed to continual 
improvement in all areas of corporate responsibility. 
Further details of the Group’s corporate responsibility 
activities are available in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility section of this report.
Our Employees
We recognise that the expertise, professionalism 
and dedication of our global team are critical to our 
continued innovation and the achievement of our 
objectives and we are grateful for their ﬂ exibility in 
adjusting to the changing demands of our markets. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our 
employees worldwide for their positive attitude and 
commitment during a challenging year.
Outlook
Trading conditions proved to be very challenging in 
2009 and against this background we took decisive 
actions to reduce costs and align our operations to 
the market environment. We also strengthened Laird’s 
balance sheet in the light of the uncertain conditions 
and the limited visibility of customer demand.
By the end of 2009 we had seen some recovery in 
a number of our markets and this, together with the 
beneﬁ ts of our cost reductions, led to a signiﬁ cant 
improvement in underlying proﬁ ts and operating 
margin in the second half of 2009. Operating cash 
conversion was particularly strong in the year.
While the proﬁ le of an economic recovery remains 
uncertain, we have so far in 2010 seen a continuation of 
the trends experienced in the second half of 2009. We 
have a sound ﬁ nancial structure, and we retain leading 
positions in the majority of our markets. We continue to 
expand our customer base, to maintain our investment 
in engineering and new product development, and to 
focus on operational excellence and customer service. 
We believe that the fundamentals of our markets remain 
attractive, and that we are well placed to capitalise 
on opportunities as these markets return to growth.
Chairman’s statement
Nigel Keen
“ The fundamentals of our 
markets remain attractive and 
we are well placed to capitalise 
on opportunities as these 
markets return to growth.” 04    Laird PLC
Chief Executive’s review
Overview
Laird is a leader in the design, manufacture and 
supply of customised, performance critical products 
and systems for wireless and other advanced 
electronic applications. We design, develop 
and supply the technology that allows people, 
organisations and electronic devices to connect 
effectively and efﬁ ciently, locally and globally: we 
provide technology for a connected world.
In 2009 we experienced a sustained upheaval in the 
global economy, with its associated credit pressures, 
reductions in consumer spending and currency 
volatility, all of which impacted our global electronics 
markets. We were also impacted by destocking in 
our global supply chain, the effect of market share 
loss by certain key customers in their end user 
markets, bankruptcy ﬁ lings in the automotive sector, 
and the loss of market share with a key customer 
in our Handset Products division as they changed 
their sourcing strategy. Trading conditions were 
challenging, and visibility of customer demand 
was limited and volatile.
Against that background, we rapidly implemented 
an extensive programme of restructuring and cost 
reductions and strengthened our balance sheet, 
repositioning our business to operate successfully 
in the changed economic and market environment. 
We continued to invest in enhancing our technical 
and operational capabilities, which has allowed 
us to increase our penetration with a number of 
key customers as well as expanding our customer 
base itself.
Results
Revenue from continuing operations in 2009 was 
£528.8 million, down 17% (2008, £635.3 million). 
Revenues in US Dollars declined 30% in the year. 
Compared to the ﬁ rst half, revenues in the second 
half of 2009 were broadly ﬂ at on those in the ﬁ rst half 
expressed in Sterling, but were up 8% in US Dollars. 
We saw good revenue growth in the second half of 
the year in our Performance Materials and Wireless 
Systems divisions, while revenues in our Handset 
Products division declined, compared with the ﬁ rst 
half of 2009.
We took swift and aggressive actions during the year 
to reduce our cost base in response to the economic 
downturn, ﬂ exing direct labour costs, consolidating 
facilities and reducing direct overheads and Selling, 
General & Administration (“SG&A”) costs, while 
largely maintaining our investment in engineering 
and research & development (“R&D”). Our objective 
has been to protect proﬁ tability during the downturn, 
while retaining our capabilities and our ability to 
respond rapidly to a market recovery.
In 2009, we reduced our direct labour costs in 
US Dollars by 30% compared with 2008, in line 
with the fall in revenues. Total overheads in 2009, 
including direct overheads, SG&A costs and R&D, 
were $72 million (£45.9 million) lower than in 2008, 
as a result of the actions we had taken.
Peter Hill Laird PLC    05   
“ Laird is a leader in the design, manufacture 
and supply of customised, performance critical 
products and systems for wireless and other 
advanced electronic applications: Technology 
for a connected world.”
Statutory proﬁ t before tax from continuing operations 
in 2009, after exceptional items, the amortisation 
of acquired intangibles, the gain or loss on the 
disposal of businesses and the fair valuing of ﬁ nancial 
instruments, was £4.6 million (2008, £26.5 million).
We focused strongly on cash generation in 2009, 
reducing working capital signiﬁ cantly and curtailing 
capital expenditure. Operating cash ﬂ ow after 
capital expenditure from continuing operations was 
£49.7 million (2008, £48.1 million). Cash conversion 
after capital expenditure was 148% (2008, 70%).
Net borrowings at 31 December 2009 were 
£45.4 million (2008, £139.5 million), with the 
reduction due largely to the receipt of proceeds 
from the Rights Issue announced in October 2009 
together with the strong cash conversion of proﬁ ts.
Underlying earnings per share from continuing 
operations were 9.6 pence (2008, 23.8 pence), 
reﬂ ecting the lower proﬁ ts and, as expected, a 
higher tax rate.
Underlying operating proﬁ t from continuing 
operations was £33.6 million in 2009, down 51% 
(2008, £68.5 million). Operating margin was 6.4%, 
down from 10.8% in 2008. However, the operating 
proﬁ t of £22.2 million in the second half of 2009 grew 
strongly compared with the £11.4 million in the ﬁ rst 
half. Underlying operating margin in the second half 
of the year was 8.5% (8.8% in the fourth quarter), 
compared well with the 4.3% in the ﬁ rst half.
Underlying proﬁ t before tax from continuing 
operations was £26.5 million in 2009, down 56% 
(2008, £60.6 million). However, underlying pre tax 
proﬁ t in the second half of 2009, at £18.9 million, was 
more than double the £7.6 million in the ﬁ rst half of 
the year.
The restructuring actions taken, including headcount 
reductions and the consolidation of manufacturing 
facilities, resulted in exceptional costs from continuing 
operations of £10.2 million in the year, with a cash 
spend of £3.4 million. There was an additional cash 
spend on exceptional items of £8.6 million in 2009, 
resulting from exceptional charges incurred in 2008.  Strategic Development
Laird has built or acquired a number of leading 
positions in its core markets with a broad range 
of proprietary products and strong customer 
relationships. We specialise in providing products 
and solutions for our customers that allow their 
own electronic devices to operate efﬁ ciently and 
cost effectively.
Through investment in technology leadership, we 
seek to strengthen our positions in our core markets, 
to broaden our customer base, and to increase our 
penetration with our customers. We saw beneﬁ ts 
from this investment in 2009 in terms of new 
customer and programme wins, with further gains 
expected in 2010 and 2011.
We continue to enhance our competitive edge 
by repositioning manufacturing, engineering and 
support functions to lower cost locations, while 
maintaining the highest levels of customer support. 
Approximately 90% of our revenues by manufactured 
origin in 2009 were from lower cost countries. We 
seek to be the “employer of choice” in these locations, 
recognising that competition for labour will continue 
to increase.
We believe that we are well positioned geographically, 
particularly in our ability to serve the growing Asian 
economies, and in markets with attractive 
fundamentals. For example, a leading industry 
commentator, iSuppli, is projecting a compound 
annual growth rate (“CAGR”) of 9% a year, from 2009 
to 2012, for mobile device unit shipments, with growth 
driven in product terms by “smartphones” and 
geographically in Asia, Eastern Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa. They are also forecasting 
strong growth in embedded telematics, including 
satellite radio, with a CAGR of 24% a year from 
2009 to 2012.
PC notebooks and netbooks are expected to be 
another area of growth, with Gartner projecting a 
CAGR of 21% a year, from 2009 to 2012, in unit 
shipments, while mobile network infrastructure 
spend is projected to be maintained, with growth in 
infrastructure for 3G, 3.5G and 4G/LTE more than 
offsetting a decline in 2G. 
Other areas projected by iSuppli to show strong 
growth are LCD ﬂ at screen displays (2009 – 2012 
CAGR of 16% a year), and Machine to Machine 
(“M2M”) wireless modules (2009 – 2012 CAGR 44% 
a year). Strong growth is also projected in both 
wireless broadband and cellular wireless adoption 
across a broad range of consumer electronics 
(including gaming devices, book readers, portable 
navigation devices, and broadband PC applications) 
with a CAGR in unit shipments of 23% a year.
In the medium term we also believe that opportunities 
exist in a number of new emerging growth markets, 
where we currently have little presence but where 
we are now researching the opportunities for the 
application of both our existing, and potential new, 
components and systems. 
2009 REVENUE
Laird PLC    07
North America Asia
Europe RoW
BY DESTINATION
North America Asia
Europe
BY ORIGIN
Handsets Consumer
IT / Datacom Industrial & 
Instrumentation
Transportation
Other
BY MARKET SEGMENT
Mobile Antennae Actuation Mechanisms
T elematics/ 
Wireless Modules
Non-handset EMI/ 
Signal Integrity
Other Antennae Thermal
Handset Metals Other
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT  Laird PLC    09
Performance Materials
Division
OPERATING REVIEW
The division designs and supplies a 
full range of EMI shielding materials, 
thermal management solutions and 
signal integrity products. These 
provide critical protection for a wide 
range of electronic devices, allowing 
them to function and connect 
effectively, whether for voice or visual 
communication or for high quality data 
storage and transmission.
Our EMI shielding products isolate 
sensitive electronic components 
and apparatus from electromagnetic 
emissions, which can interfere with 
their operation and performance; our 
thermal management materials protect 
and improve a device’s performance 
through the transfer of heat, while our 
ferrite-based signal integrity products 
remove and ﬁ lter unwanted or harmful 
electromagnetic “noise” generated by 
active components. 10    Laird PLC
The division designs and supplies a full range of EMI 
shielding materials, thermal management solutions 
and signal integrity products. These provide critical 
protection for a wide range of electronic devices, 
allowing them to function and connect effectively, 
whether for voice or visual communication or for 
high quality data storage and transmission.
Our EMI shielding products isolate sensitive electronic 
components and apparatus from electromagnetic 
emissions, which can interfere with their operation 
and performance; our thermal management materials 
protect and improve a device’s performance through 
the transfer of heat, while our ferrite-based signal 
integrity products remove and ﬁ lter unwanted or 
harmful electromagnetic “noise” generated by 
active components.
Divisional revenues decreased by 5% in 2009 to 
£181.9 million, with the year-on-year decline in 
revenues in US Dollars being 19%. However, we 
saw an encouraging recovery in the second half of 
2009, with divisional revenues up 21% in US Dollars 
compared with the ﬁ rst half. Divisional revenues grew 
progressively quarter by quarter during the year.
The majority, 63%, of the divisional revenues in 2009 
were from EMI shielding materials, with 27% from our 
thermal management solutions and 10% from our 
signal integrity products.
By market segment, 52%, of the division’s revenues 
in 2009 were to the IT, telecommunications and 
datacom sectors, with the balance to the consumer 
electronics, industrial and instrumentation, medical, 
and aerospace and defence markets.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2009 REVENUE 
BY MARKET SEGMENT
IT / Datacom
Transportation Other
Consumer
Industrial / Instrumentation
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2009 REVENUE 
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT
EMI
Thermal
Signal Integrity
Performance Materials Division
Year ended 2009 2008
31 December H1 H2 Year
£m £m £m £m
Revenue 86.3 95.6 181.9 190.9
Underlying 
operating proﬁ t 4.8 14.2 19.0 23.1
Return on sales 5.6% 14.9% 10.4% 12. 1% Laird PLC    11
2009 was a record year for revenues from our 
thermal management product lines, despite the 
overall economic downturn. We beneﬁ tted from new 
product introductions, and saw growth in revenues 
into the telecom and datacom infrastructure markets 
and notebook PCs, as well as into the LED lighting, 
medical and aerospace sectors.
Revenues in our EMI product lines declined overall 
compared with 2008. From a low point in the second 
quarter of 2009, we have seen progressive growth 
during the second half, particularly into PC notebooks, 
telecom and datacom, portable location devices 
and aerospace. 
Revenues in our signal integrity product lines fell 
sharply in the ﬁ rst half of 2009 compared with 2008, 
as a result of excess industry capacity caused by 
reduced customer demand. During the year we 
began to see the beneﬁ ts of a re-engineering of our 
product lines and we expanded and strengthened 
our sales force for these products, regaining market 
share and broadening our customer base, with the 
result that revenues in the second half of the year 
grew strongly compared with the ﬁ rst half.
Underlying operating proﬁ t in the division fell 18% in 
the year to £19.0 million (2008, £23.1 million), and 
return on sales fell from 12.1% in 2008 to 10.4% in 
2009. However, underlying operating proﬁ t recovered 
well in the second half of 2009 compared with ﬁ rst 
half, as a result of higher revenues and the beneﬁ t of 
cost reductions; return on sales in the second half 
increased to 14.9% compared with 5.6% in the 
ﬁ rst half.
We successfully launched a number of new products 
during 2009, resulting in market share gains, greater 
penetration at existing customers, and a broadening 
of the customer base.
We introduced a new range of cooling products, with 
thermoelectric assemblies offering a more compact 
design and enhanced thermal module performance, 
as well as new thermally conductive printed circuit 
board products, initially for the LED lighting market. 
We also developed softer and thinner “fabric over 
foam” shielding materials, providing customers with 
a lighter and more versatile solution without any loss 
of performance. Our new EMI Sentry™ family of 
EMI form in place gaskets offers greater adhesion, 
strength and reliability that is ideal for base stations 
and portable devices, as well as for the consumer 
electronics industry more generally. A number of 
new EMI elastomer products were also introduced, 
underpinning our growth in the telecom and datacom 
infrastructure markets.
The re-engineering of our signal integrity products 
has resulted in the launch of new families of ferrite 
cores, and chip beads for use with printed circuit 
boards, and these have been instrumental in the 
recovery in revenues seen in the second half.
Operationally, we have continued the progressive 
relocation of the majority of our remaining North 
American manufacturing in this division to Asia, and 
are also strengthening our design and engineering 
capabilities in Asia, where the majority of the 
division’s customers are now located.
The higher power, speed and performance of 
electronic devices are expected to underpin demand 
for our Performance Materials division’s products. 
We saw a recovery in both revenues and proﬁ ts in 
this division in the second half of 2009, and have 
strengthened its capabilities and enhanced its 
competitiveness. We currently expect this recovery 
to continue into 2010.  We are a leading global supplier 
of customised, high performance 
products to the global mobile 
phone handset and handheld 
device manufacturers, enhancing 
connectivity, performance and 
physical functionality. 
The division’s products include 
cellular and complementary 
(Bluetooth, WiFi, FM, Zigbee and 
GPS) antennae, board level EMI 
shielding (“BLS”), environmental 
gaskets, mechanical actuation 
mechanisms such as sliders and 
camera shutters, audio modules, 
integrated sub-assemblies including 
SIM holders and contacts, and 
visual metals.
Laird PLC    13
Handset Products
Division
OPERATING REVIEW 14    Laird PLC
We are a leading global supplier of customised, 
high performance products to the global mobile 
phone handset and handheld device manufacturers, 
enhancing connectivity, performance and physical 
functionality. The division’s products include cellular 
and complementary (Bluetooth, WiFi, FM, Zigbee 
and GPS) antennae, board level EMI shielding 
(“BLS”), environmental gaskets, mechanical actuation 
mechanisms such as sliders and camera shutters, 
audio modules, integrated sub-assemblies including 
SIM holders and contacts, and visual metals.
Divisional revenues decreased 25% in 2009 to 
£262.0 million (2008, £348.7 million); in US Dollars, 
the year-on-year decline was 36%. 
The majority, 63%, of divisional revenues in 2009 
were cellular and complementary antennae products, 
with 19% from actuation mechanisms and 18% from 
handset metals, including BLS.
Revenues in the division in the second half of 2009 
declined by 7% in US Dollars compared with the 
ﬁ rst half of the year. Revenues in our antennae and 
handset metals product lines showed quarter on 
quarter growth in the fourth quarter, although this 
trend was not seen in actuation mechanisms, where 
fourth quarter revenues declined signiﬁ cantly.
As previously highlighted, we have lost market share 
in the actuation mechanisms and handset metals 
product lines as a result of a progressive shift in the 
sourcing policy of a major customer, in favour of large 
contract manufacturers.
In handset metals we have been successful in 
broadening our customer base, particularly in the 
“smartphone” segment. These new revenues are 
largely offsetting the impact of the major customer’s  
change in sourcing policy. 
HANDSET PRODUCTS 2009 REVENUE 
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT
Antennae
Actuation Mechanisms
Handset Metals
Handset Products Division
Year ended 2009 2008
31 December H1 H2 Year
 £m £m £m £m
Revenue 142.4 119.6 262.0 348.7
Underlying 
operating proﬁ t 6.3 5.4 11.7 37.4
Return on sales 4.4% 4.5% 4.5% 10. 7% Laird PLC    15
In actuation mechanisms new programme awards 
are, as expected, taking longer to come through, 
leading to a short term decline in overall revenues 
from this product line.
In our cellular and complementary antennae area, the 
beneﬁ ts of increasing unit volumes during the second 
half of 2009 were offset by lower average selling prices, 
both as a result of changes in the product “mix” of 
antennae and customer price-downs. However, we also 
saw a temporary decline in our antennae market share 
in the fourth quarter, as programmes on which we were 
single sourced in the ramp up phase were moved by a 
major customer to being dual sourced.
We currently expect the revenue trends in our product 
lines described above to continue into the ﬁ rst half 
of 2010, before recovering in the second half.
The division’s underlying operating proﬁ t fell 69% in 
the year to £11.7 million (2008, £37.4 million), and 
return on sales fell from 10.7% in 2008 to 4.5% 
in 2009. 
Our customers now include all of the “top ﬁ ve” global 
Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”), and 
we are winning increasing amounts of new business 
from the emerging North American players in the 
“smartphone” segment. We are also consolidating 
our presence with Asian Original Design 
Manufacturers (“ODMs”) and OEMs.
We retain a strong technical and operational 
capability in handset metals (including the emerging 
segment of visual metals) and actuation mechanisms, 
and are increasing our penetration with a number 
of the “top 5” OEMs as well as broadening our 
customer base more generally.
In cellular and complementary antennae we believe, 
based on customer feedback, that we hold the industry 
technology leadership position. A major OEM customer 
has conﬁ rmed to us that we hold this position with 
them, relative to their other suppliers.
We were very active in new product development 
during 2009, which will beneﬁ t us progressively in 2010 
and 2011. We successfully launched our Activv™ 
FM internal antennae, with strong interest from all 
the top 10 OEMs. Close to 8 million phones with this 
technology were sold in 2009. We also developed 
and offered to customers a “full metal cover” 
antenna, a collaboration across product lines that 
uses the external cover of the phone as an antenna, 
enabling greater industrial design freedom and 
improving antenna performance.
We successfully launched our new laser directed 
structuring antennae, a method of applying three 
dimensional antennae patterns onto a plastic 
carrier using an advanced laser system. We also 
broadened our product offering during the year with 
the successful launch of our mobile broadband PC 
antennae products, and our ﬁ rst Long Term Evolution 
(“LTE”, or 4G) platforms.
Operationally, we have increased our own vertical 
integration, offering greater ﬂ exibility to customers 
while preserving margins and reducing inventory. 
Our continuous improvement programmes have 
lowered our cost of quality and improved yields, 
beneﬁ tting margins. We closed our handset products 
manufacturing in Szombathely, Hungary, with 
production successfully transferred to China and India. 
We have at the same time increased our design and 
engineering facilities in Korea, China and Taiwan to 
best position us to serve our local customers.
We expect 2010 to be a year of transition in this 
division, with a rebalancing of revenues across a 
broader customer base, but with continuing beneﬁ ts 
from the cost reduction actions we have taken.   Laird PLC    17
Heading
Laird PLC   17
Wireless Systems
Division
OPERATING REVIEW
We design and supply a range 
of customised, high speciﬁ cation 
wireless antennae, and 
machine-to-machine (“M2M”) 
wireless modules, which can 
include micro-processors and 
embedded software, for the 
infrastructure, automotive and 
transportation, municipal, industrial 
and instrumentation, datacom, 
security, retail and asset 
management markets. 18    Laird PLC
We design and supply a range of customised, 
high speciﬁ cation wireless antennae, and 
machine-to-machine (“M2M”) wireless modules, 
which can include micro-processors and embedded 
software, for the infrastructure, automotive and 
transportation, municipal, industrial and 
instrumentation, datacom, security, retail and 
asset management markets.
Divisional revenues declined by 11% in 2009 to 
£84.9 million (2008, £95.7 million); in US Dollars, 
the year-on-year decline was 25%.
The majority, 57%, of the division’s revenues in 
2009 were from telematics antennae and modules 
into the automotive market, with 34% of revenues 
from the infrastructure, datacom, security and asset 
management sectors, and 9% from sales of our 
wireless M2M modules.
Our telematics antennae product lines suffered 
particularly in the ﬁ rst half of 2009, as a result of the 
general downturn in the automotive industry which 
was ampliﬁ ed by the bankruptcy ﬁ ling by two of the 
division’s major customers. These bankruptcies were 
resolved and this, together with a more general 
recovery in the division’s markets, resulted in revenues 
in the second half of 2009, expressed in US Dollars, 
being up 38% compared with the ﬁ rst half.
Year-on-year, the division experienced a decline in 
revenues across virtually all its markets and product 
lines, although vehicular wireless and Land Mobile 
Radio revenues held up well and in automotive 
telematics we made the ﬁ rst signiﬁ cant penetration 
with the remaining customer in the US “top 3” 
automotive OEMs.
WIRELESS SYSTEMS 2009 REVENUE 
BY MARKET SEGMENT 
IT / Datacom
Transportation / Automotive
Other
WIRELESS SYSTEMS 2009 REVENUE 
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT 
Telematics
Infrastructure and other antennae
Wireless "M2M" modules
Wireless Systems Division
Year ended 2009 2008
31 December H1 H2 Year
 £m £m £m £m
Revenue 37.4 47.5 84.9 95.7
Underlying 
operating proﬁ t 0.3 2.6 2.9 8.0
Return on sales 0.8% 5.5% 3.4% 8.4% Laird PLC    19
We saw a strong recovery during the second half of 
2009 in our automotive telematics, wireless modules 
and WLAN antennae revenues, compared with the 
ﬁ rst half of the year. We also won a number of new 
platforms with the top US and European car makers, 
which will beneﬁ t us in 2011 and 2012.
We are developing our “subsystems” offering in 
telematics, with increasing business in the asset 
tracking, insurance, and credit market sectors. We are 
integrating 802.11, Wireless LAN and Bluetooth into 
our telematics products, broadening the scope of the 
products and providing a greater range of options for 
our customers across various wireless protocols.
Although recovery in our infrastructure antennae 
product lines in the second half of 2009 was more 
muted, particularly in North America, overall we 
saw a progressive growth in revenues through the 
third and fourth quarters of 2009, compared with 
the second quarter. In addition, our development 
of various Bluetooth, Zigbee and proprietary radio 
applications is allowing us to expand our product 
proﬁ le into retail, meter reading and remote 
diagnostic applications. Our focus on geographic 
expansion, notably in Asia, began to produce results 
during the second half of 2009, with further beneﬁ ts 
expected in 2010.
The division’s underlying operating proﬁ t fell 64% in 
the year to £2.9 million (2008, £8.0 million). Return 
on sales fell from 8.4% in 2008 to 3.4% in 2009, with 
the margin decline being caused primarily by the 
overall decline in revenues, as a result of customers 
reducing their car volume projections. However, 
underlying operating proﬁ t recovered well in the 
second half of 2009 (£2.6 million) compared with the 
ﬁ rst half (£0.3 million), as a result of higher revenues 
and the beneﬁ t of cost reductions; return on sales in 
the second half increased to 5.5% compared with 
0.8% in the ﬁ rst half of the year.
We have introduced a number of new products 
during the year, providing greater penetration of 
existing customers as well as broadening the 
customer base. In telematics, for example, we 
have developed a “smart antennae” solution which 
combines cellular and GPS/Satellite antennae, 
wireless modules and input/output interfaces, all 
software controlled. This is allowing us to expand 
considerably our telematics capabilities, beyond our 
traditional satellite digital radio offering.
We also developed a dual band MIMO internal 
antennae family to enhance the latest generation of 
Wireless LAN technology systems, the next generation 
“Stealth II” GPS, and new Bluetooth antennae 
products. We also introduced a new Land Mobile 
Radio family for the China Public Safety market, for 
handheld and vehicular applications. All of these 
products should lead to new, additional revenue in 
2010 and beyond.
Operationally during the year, we closed down 
manufacturing at our New Hampshire, USA facility 
and downsized manufacturing in Illinois, USA, with 
production being expanded in Malaysia and China. 
Overheads across the division have been reduced, 
while design and engineering have been downsized 
in North America and Europe and expanded in 
Malaysia and India.
During 2009 we have been successfully “re-engineering” 
the division, expanding our technology capabilities, 
product range and geographic presence, while 
ensuring a more cost effective manufacturing base. 
We began to see a recovery in revenues in the 
second half of 2009, and we have seen this continue 
into 2010. 20    Laird PLC
Technology and Innovation
We add value to our customers not only by the 
characteristics of products that we sell, but also by 
our science, technology and engineering capabilities 
that we use across a broad range of disciplines, 
applications, products and geographies. In our 
product development we establish and deliver on 
technology roadmaps, that ensure we are at the 
forefront of the technologies demanded by the market. 
Our core areas of technical expertise include basic 
science, product engineering, prototyping, production 
engineering and process engineering. These cover 
such diverse ﬁ elds as heat transfer, electromagnetic 
interference prevention, signal propagation, acoustics, 
metal deposition and processing, polymer processing 
and semiconductor materials. We support our 
customers through our global network of technology, 
engineering and prototyping centres, which can 
operate either independently or as an integrated 
whole, as the customer demands.
Despite the adverse economic environment, our 
investment in R&D in 2009 was £42.8 million before 
£11.1 million of capitalised development, compared 
with £39.0 million in 2008. Expenditure was 8.1% of 
sales in 2009, up from 6.1% in 2008.
Innovation through Continuous Improvement 
The markets in which our products are used typically 
value and require continual reductions in size and 
weight, reducing cost while maintaining or improving 
performance. We address these needs by our new 
product development activities as well as by our 
aggressive continuous improvement approach. By 
taking a disciplined process approach to all stages of 
our operations, and implementing lean manufacturing 
principles, we are able to reduce waste and defects 
and improve efﬁ ciencies. 
A core capability in our Corporate Research Laboratory is 
preparation and analysis of “nano-scale” particles such as 
these bismuth telluride particles for thermoelectric applications.
OPERATING REVIEW For example, through the implementation of a three 
dimensional “plastic printing” process we have 
signiﬁ cantly reduced the time required to make 
prototype parts. By localising the sources for many 
raw materials and components, we have shortened 
our lead times, reduced our working capital, and 
reduced our costs. Through the development of an 
integrated processing system for metal products, 
complicated precision multi-piece products are now
made in a single production line, eliminating all 
queuing of intermediate parts and reducing scrap 
and downtime. 
Continued Development of our 
Technical Footprint
In 2009 we continued to develop our technical 
footprint by expanding the capabilities and locations 
of our engineering and prototyping resources. We 
established a wireless radio design group in Bangalore, 
India, based on the availability of skilled engineers 
there as well as to allow us to customise our product 
for the Indian market. Our thermal engineering 
capabilities were broadened by the establishment 
of broad thermal product engineering capabilities 
in China. We expanded engineering, testing and 
prototyping capabilities in Korea for all of our handset 
products, and established in Shenzhen a centre for 
the development of visual metal products.
Innovation in Technology and 
Product Convergence 
Many of our customers need products that perform 
multiple functions and look to us to integrate a number 
of components into integrated systems. Advanced 
Telematics applications need highly integrated 
solutions combining antennae, wireless modules, 
input/output interfaces and ruggedised mechanical 
design. We are meeting these needs with “Smart 
Antennae”, which combine our multi-functional 
antennae and ampliﬁ ers in innovative packages 
through the integrated design of these systems. 
With our Activv
TM
 FM Combo antennae, functions of 
FM radio, Bluetooth, GPS and WCDMA antennae 
are combined into a single component, allowing 
simpliﬁ cation of the design of signal reception 
and propagation for cellular phones and other 
handheld devices. 
Robust Intellectual Property Portfolio 
Our sustained investment in R&D continues to add to 
our solid intellectual property position. 
We use a combination of trade secrets, patents 
and contractual arrangements in addition to relying 
on copyright and trademark laws to protect our 
intellectual property rights. In 2009 we began a 
fundamental review of our patent portfolio from a 
cost effectiveness perspective, retiring patents where 
we have protection in another form or where our 
developments have progressed to newer technology. 
As a result of this review we had 667 active patents 
at the end of 2009, which includes 73 new patents 
granted in the year, down from 725 at the end of 
2008. The number of patents pending increased to 
708 at the end of 2009, 49% up on 2008, evidencing 
our continued investment in R&D and a commitment 
to seek patent protection for our most valuable 
intellectual property.
Corporate Research Laboratory 
In our Corporate Research Laboratory in Bangalore, 
India, we accelerated our activities centred around 
the development of materials with advanced physical 
and electrical properties. In 2009 we extended 
the number of projects under development to ten 
and these projects address critical needs in each 
of our divisions. Substantial intellectual property 
has been generated by this group in the two years 
since it was formed. Three new materials are in pilot 
scale trials and commercial launch stages, while 
encouraging breakthroughs have been made in 
additional projects.
Laird PLC    21 22    Laird PLC
Revenue 
Revenue from continuing operations fell to 
£528.8 million in 2009 from £635.3 million in 2008. 
Revenues when stated in US Dollars fell by 30% in 
2009; Performance Materials revenues were 19% 
lower, Handset Products were 36% lower and 
Wireless Systems were 25% lower. The table below 
shows revenues in US Dollars for each half year for 
both 2008 and 2009.
Performance 
Materials
$m
Handset 
Products
$m
Wireless 
Systems
$m
Total
$m
2008
First half 191.2 335.9 95.0 622.1
Second half 162.9 310.9 82.5 556.3
Total for the year 354.1 646.8 177.5 1,178.4
 
2009
First half 129.2 213.2 56.0 398.4
Second half 156.1 197.6 77.1 430.8
Total for the year 285.3 410.8 133.1 829.2
The top ﬁ ve customers invoiced accounted for 51% 
of revenue in 2009 (2008, 56%). 
Underlying Operating Proﬁ t/Net Margins
The table below shows underlying operating proﬁ t in 
US Dollars. There was a considerable improvement 
in the second half of 2009 compared to the ﬁ rst half. 
Underlying operating proﬁ t more than doubled, with 
an increase in each of the three divisions.
Underlying Operating Proﬁ t
Performance 
Materials
$m
Handset 
Products
$m
Wireless 
Systems
$m
Total
$m
2008
First half 27.1 38.1 9.7 74.9
Second half 15.8 31.3 5.2 52.3
Total for the year 42.9 69.4 14.9 127.2
 
2009
First half 7.2 9.4 0.5 17.1
Second half 22.7 8.9 4.1 35.7
Total for the year 29.9 18.3 4.6 52.8
Net margins for the full year were 6.4% in 2009 
(2008, 10.8%). Margins were 4.3% in the ﬁ rst half 
and almost doubled to 8.5% in the second half of 
the year with higher margins across all segments. 
Proﬁ t 
Proﬁ t before tax from continuing operations was 
£4.6 million (2008, £26.5 million). There was a loss 
after tax for the year from discontinued operations of 
£1.9 million (2008, £nil).
Underlying Proﬁ t
Continuing underlying proﬁ t before tax in the year 
was £26.5 million (2008, £60.6 million). Underlying 
proﬁ t is deﬁ ned as proﬁ t before tax, exceptional 
items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, the 
gain or loss on sale of businesses, the impact arising 
from the fair valuing of ﬁ nancial instruments, and 
acquisition transaction costs, as set out in note 14. 
Finance Director’s report
Jonathan Silver Laird PLC    23
    Exceptional Costs
The steps taken to reduce headcount and capacity 
as a result of the lower levels of activity have 
resulted in £10.2 million of exceptional costs in 
2009 (2008, £20.3 million). Note 7 analyses these 
costs by division. The cash outlay in the period was 
£12.0 million (including cash spent on exceptional 
items provided for in 2008) with a further cash outlay 
of around £5 million to come in 2010. 
Finance Costs 
Finance costs, excluding a gain on the fair valuing 
of ﬁ nancial instruments of £1.6 million (2008, loss 
of £2.4 million) were £7.1 million compared to 
£7.9 million in 2008. Interest cover was 4.2 times, 
compared to the minimum of 2.5 required by the 
covenant in the Group’s principal loan agreements. 
Taxation 
The underlying tax charge on total underlying proﬁ t 
before tax is equivalent to an average tax rate of 
23.4%, higher than 19.8% in 2008, with the principal 
cause of the increase being a lower level of tax 
incentives in China. 
Proﬁ ts in the USA are subject to a relatively low 
charge and should remain so for many years in 
part due to tax deductions for amortised goodwill 
resulting from acquisitions. A signiﬁ cant proportion of 
proﬁ ts are also from jurisdictions with low tax rates or 
with tax incentives. An analysis of the total tax charge 
is given in note 11. 
Underlying Earnings 
Continuing underlying earnings per share were 9.6p 
(2008, 23.8p, as adjusted for the bonus element 
of the Rights Issue). Underlying earnings are based 
on underlying proﬁ t less underlying tax and exclude 
deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and 
goodwill. Following the Rights Issue there were 
266.3 million shares in issue compared with an 
average of 211.6 million in 2009 (2008, 204.3 million). 
Cash Flow
Analysis of cash ﬂ ow 
  2009
  £m
Operating proﬁ t  33.6
Depreciation/amortisation of capitalised
   development costs 22.3
Other non-cash 1.3
  57.2
Reduction in working capital* 20.0
Capitalised development costs (11.1)
Capital expenditure less disposals (16.4)
Operating cash ﬂ ow 49.7
Finance costs  (7.7)
Taxation  (9.8)
Trading cash ﬂ ow surplus 32.2
Dividends  (14.0)
Acquisitions/disposals (4.4)
Exceptional costs  (12.0)
Share issues 83.0
Exchange translation movement  9.3
Reduction in net borrowings  94.1
* after adjusting for creditor increases on exceptional items of £7.4 million.
There was a signiﬁ cant working capital decrease of 
£20.0 million largely due to the successful execution 
of inventory reduction programmes which was the 
principal factor in delivering a good cash conversion 
(operating cash ﬂ ow as a proportion of operating 
proﬁ t) result of 148%. The dividend outﬂ ow of 
£14.0 million was in respect of the ﬁ nal dividend for 
2008 only. The interim dividend for 2009 was paid 
in January 2010. 
Treasury Policies
The Group has a centralised Treasury function whose 
objectives are to monitor and manage the ﬁ nancial 
risks of the Group and to ensure that sufﬁ cient 
liquidity is available to meet the requirements 
of the business. Group Treasury is not a proﬁ t 
centre and operates within a framework of policies 
and procedures.
Group Treasury use derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 
to assist in the management of foreign exchange and 
interest rate risk, principally forward foreign exchange 
contracts and interest rate swaps. All hedging 
is carried out centrally and speculative trading is 
speciﬁ cally prohibited by Group Treasury policy. Finance Director’s report (continued)
Covenants
A key consideration for ﬁ nancial planning is to 
maintain sufﬁ cient headroom between borrowings 
and the ceiling set by the covenants. The Group’s 
bank facilities and US Private Placement loan 
notes contain two principal ﬁ nancial covenants; 
net debt/EBITDA (earnings before exceptional items, 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation), and 
interest cover.
For the year ended 31 December 2009, net 
borrowings were 1.0 times EBITDA, 29% of the 
maximum permitted of 3.5 times. Interest cover 
was 4.2 times against the minimum requirement 
of 2.5 times. Thus, there was sufﬁ cient ﬁ nancial 
headroom. 
Going forward, as a matter of course we estimate 
our headroom against the covenants and we test 
their sensitivity to a number of alternative scenarios 
to ensure ongoing compliance. We do not anticipate 
approaching our covenant limits. 
Currencies in 2009 
The average and period end exchange rates are set 
out in note 5. In 2009, some 88% of revenues were 
negotiated in US Dollar and Renminbi (which was 
pegged to the US Dollar in 2009) with a further 9% 
in Euros. In 2009 there was a US Dollar surplus but 
in most other currencies, costs exceeded revenues, 
the most signiﬁ cant being the Japanese Yen, the 
Swedish Krona and the Korean Won which together 
account for 10% of costs. 
We strive to balance local currency exposures but we 
operate a global business and this can create some 
currency imbalances where we cannot always match 
operating or procurement costs with revenues in 
that currency.
In addition, there is a translation impact in converting 
proﬁ ts into our reporting currency (Pound Sterling); 
each US$0.01 appreciation against sterling 
approximates to an annual increase in operating 
proﬁ t of £0.4 million. 
The majority of the Group’s assets are held overseas 
and these are hedged in part by foreign currency loans. 
Interest Rate Risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as it holds 
borrowings on both a ﬁ xed and ﬂ oating basis. The 
Group’s policy for this risk is to optimise the mix of 
ﬁ xed and ﬂ oating rate borrowings using interest rate 
swaps and forward rate agreements to manage the 
Group’s ﬁ nance costs.
Credit and Counterparty Risk
The Group’s policy on counterparty risk management 
is to place cash deposits and other ﬁ nancial 
instruments with our relationship banks, all of whom 
also provide credit facilities to the Group. The level 
of exposure to each bank is continually monitored. 
As at 31  December 2009 all cash and short-term 
deposits had a maturity of less than one month.
Foreign Exchange Management
The Group aims to minimise its exposures to 
US Dollar transactional currency exposures by 
matching local currency income with local currency 
costs. The Group aims to cover forward at least 75% 
of the unmatched cash ﬂ ows on a quarterly basis.
Foreign currency borrowings are used to hedge 
partially the currencies of our principal assets and 
cash ﬂ ows. Where foreign currency borrowings are 
in the same currency as our investment in overseas 
assets they are treated as a hedge of the net 
investment.
Net Borrowings and Debt Facilities
Overall, net borrowings decreased by £94.1 million to 
£45.4 million; £83.0 million of the reduction was the 
proceeds net of expenses from a 1 for 2 Rights Issue. 
A cornerstone of Laird’s ﬁ nancial planning is to 
ensure that the Group maintains committed loan 
ﬁ nance which provides sufﬁ cient headroom above 
expected borrowing requirements and has a 
signiﬁ cant proportion with terms that exceed one 
year. Laird has £265 million (2008, £265 million) 
of bilateral revolving credit facilities which do not 
expire until August 2012. In addition, Laird has 
in issue $150 million (£92.6 million) of US Dollar 
Private Placement notes which are repaid between 
2010 to 2012 ($10 million), 2014 ($97 million) and 
2016 ($43 million).
24    Laird PLC Pensions 
There are 12 employees who are active members 
of deﬁ ned beneﬁ t plans and approximately 1,700 
deferred and current pensioners. There is an overall 
deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension scheme deﬁ cit under IAS 19 
of £2.5 million at 31 December 2009. At 31 December 
2008, there was an overall surplus of £0.1 million.
The principal causes of the elimination of the surplus 
and the move into deﬁ cit were changes in the 
assumptions used to calculate liabilities. The bond 
rate used to discount liabilities was 5.65% in 2009 
compared to 6.1% in 2008, which together with a 
higher inﬂ ation rate assumption of 3.8% (2008, 3.1%) 
and a more conservative mortality assumption, 
contributed to the increase in the estimate of 
£10.7 million for liabilities. This was offset in part 
by a £7.1 million increase in the value of the assets.
Shareholders’ Funds 
Shareholders’ funds at the 2009 year end 
were £579.6 million (2008, £585.3 million). The 
reconciliation is set out in the Group statement of 
changes in equity. The 1 for 2 Rights Issue added 
£83.0 million (net of expenses) and this was offset 
by exchange translation differences and the dividend 
(ﬁ nal for 2008). 
Return on Capital Employed 
Return on capital employed (underlying proﬁ t 
before interest and tax as a proportion of average 
shareholders’ funds plus net borrowings during the 
year) was 5.1% compared to 11.2% in 2008.
Laird PLC    25 26    Laird PLC
Board of Directors
Nigel Keen
Chairman. MA, FCA. Appointed a non-
executive director in 1993 and Chairman 
in 2000. Chairman of the Nominations 
Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. Chairman of 
Axis-Shield plc, Oxford Instruments plc, 
Deltex Medical Group plc and 
BIOQUELL PLC.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chief Executive. BSc, MBA, Chartered 
Engineer. Appointed Managing Director in 
2001 and Chief Executive in 2002. Previously 
held senior management positions with 
Invensys plc and BTR plc. Non-executive 
director of Meggitt plc from 2004 until 
31 March 2010 and a non-executive Board 
Member of United Kingdom Trade & 
Investment from 2005 until 31 March 2009. 
Appointed as a non-executive director of 
Cookson Group plc on 1 February 2010.
Andrew Robb
Non-executive director. FCMA. Appointed 
on 1 September 2004. Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. Previously 
Finance Director of Pilkington plc and 
P&O Steam Navigation Co. Non-executive 
Chairman of Tata Steel Europe Limited 
and non-executive director of Tata 
Steel Limited, Kesa Electricals plc, 
JaguarLandRover Limited and 
PayPoint plc.
Anthony Reading, MBE
Non-executive director. FCA. Appointed 
on 1 September 2004. Senior independent 
non-executive director. Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member 
of the Audit and Nominations Committees. 
Previously an executive director of 
Tomkins plc and Chairman and Chief 
Executive of Tomkins Corp. USA and 
a non-executive director of George 
Wimpey plc. Non-executive director of 
Taylor Wimpey Plc, Spectris plc and 
e2v technologies plc. Laird PLC    27
Martin Rapp
Managing Director. BS, MS, MBA. Joined 
Laird in 1996 as General Manager of 
Laird’s EMI shielding business, becoming 
President of APM, Inc in 1997. Appointed 
Chief Executive of Laird Technologies, Inc 
in 2001. Appointed a director in January 
2005. Previously held management 
positions with Monsanto. Non-executive 
director of Kionix, Inc until November 
2009. US citizen.
Jonathan Silver
Finance Director. BA, CA. Joined Laird in 
1986 and appointed to the Board as 
Finance Director in 1994. Previously Group 
Treasurer and Corporate Development 
Manager. Non-executive director of 
INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc.
Professor Michael Kelly, FRS FREng
Non-executive director. BSc, MSc, 
PhD, ScD. Appointed on 1 July 2006. A 
member of the Remuneration Committee. 
Currently Prince Philip Professor of 
Technology at the University of Cambridge. 
Formerly Chief Scientiﬁ c Advisor to the 
Department for Communities and Local 
Government. Previously Cambridge 
Executive Director for the Cambridge-
MIT Institute and Head of the School of 
Electronics, Computing and Mathematics 
at the University of Surrey.
Dr William Spivey
Non-executive director. BS, MS, PhD. 
Appointed on 1 September 2002. A 
member of the Remuneration and Audit 
Committees. Formerly President and CEO 
of Luminent, Inc., having previously held 
senior management positions with AT&T 
Corporation and Lucent Technologies. 
Non-executive director and Independent 
Lead Director of both Novellus Systems 
and ADC Telecommunications, and 
non-executive director of the Raytheon 
Company and Cascade Microtech Inc. 
US citizen.
Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG
Non-executive director. MA. Appointed 
on 1 December 2006. A member of 
the Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees. Master of Gonville and 
Caius College, Cambridge. HM Diplomatic 
Service, retired. Formerly HM Ambassador 
to the People’s Republic of China, having 
previously served as HM Ambassador, 
Warsaw, as Assistant Under Secretary 
of State for North Asia and the Paciﬁ c, 
and earlier as Head of the Hong Kong 
Department of the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Ofﬁ ce. 28    Laird PLC
Directors’ report
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Laird PLC is a holding company. The principal activities of its subsidiary undertakings (“subsidiaries”) during the year were the design, 
manufacture and supply of products and services to the electronics industry. The Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review 
and Finance Director’s report should be read in conjunction with this report. An analysis of revenue, profit, assets and liabilities by 
segment is shown in note 3 on pages 58 to 59. 
Business review
A review of the development and performance of the Group during the year, and its position at the year end, is given in the 
Chairman’s statement on page 3, the Chief Executive’s review on pages 4 to 7, the Finance Director’s report on pages 22 to 25, the 
Operating Review on pages 9 to 21, and note 14 to the financial statements. Information on environmental matters is contained in 
the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 36 to 39. These pages, and the Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) contained 
therein, are incorporated into this report by reference. Definitions of the KPIs are given on page 104.
Results and dividend 
The Group loss for the year after taxation was £3.5 million (2008, £14.3 million profit). Underlying profit before tax was £26.5 million 
(2008, £60.6 million) and is analysed in note 14 on page 65. The recommended final dividend is 2.53p per ordinary share to be paid 
on 4 June 2010 to ordinary shareholders registered as members of the Company at the close of business on 7 May 2010, making a 
total dividend for the year of 6.0p per ordinary share. 
Risks and uncertainties
The management and control of risks within the Group is embedded within basic operating procedures. These procedures comprise 
a range of measures including Group Operating Rules, monthly reporting, internal and external audits, the risk management framework 
comprising a strategic level Risk Management Group chaired by the Chief Executive, with operational risk management under the 
Laird Technologies Risk Management Committee, and self-assessment and continuous monitoring by Group and operating management.
The Group operates globally in varied markets and the principal risks and uncertainties that are or may be faced by the Group are 
set out below. In addition, information on the Laird risk management framework is given on page 35.
Overall growth and demand for Laird’s products
The overall demand for products is influenced by the level of customers’ commercial activity, which in turn is affected by the 
general economic climate, market conditions and consumer confidence generally. This demand can be volatile and is dependent 
on a number of factors including the macroeconomic climate, the rate of change in the regulatory environment and in industry 
consolidation, the adoption of new technologies, the supply and availability of credit and customer spending patterns.
During an economic downturn, customers may cancel, reduce or postpone anticipated orders. A downturn may also cause 
customers and competitors to apply pressure to prices and this pressure can lead to lasting changes in terms of trade pricing 
policies, delivery capabilities and market expectations.
Laird’s markets are highly competitive and it must be able to respond to technological change
The Group operates in market sectors which are characterised by a high level of competition between suppliers, changing industry 
dynamics such as vertical integration, and which are driven by rapid technological change. A key success factor to operating 
within these markets is the ability to introduce new products in a timely manner. The Group must continue to respond promptly 
and effectively to technological change and customers’ and competitors’ innovations and changing market dynamics in order to 
be successful. This requires it to put together multi-national, multi-functional teams which are essential to the development of new 
products in high growth markets.
The ability of the Group to meet the demands of the market and to compete effectively is, to a large extent, dependent on the skills, 
experience and performance of its employees and their relationships with customers.
Political, economic and regulatory factors
Having a global reach with significant regional concentrations involves certain risks for the Group, including volatility in gross 
domestic product, economic and political instability, nationalisation of private assets, the imposition of withholding tax and exchange 
controls and challenges in protecting Laird’s intellectual property rights. The Group is also exposed to the effects of possible terrorist 
action and natural catastrophe. Changes in regulatory and trading compliance requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, price 
or exchange controls, composition or changes in taxation or other governmental policies could limit its operations and make the 
repatriation of profits difficult. In addition, the uncertainty of the legal environment in some regions could limit the Group’s ability to 
enforce its rights.
Dependence on a small number of large global customers
The Group is dependent on a small number of key customers. The loss of a major contract or key customer or a material reduction 
in orders from any customer or customers, whether through competitive action, contractual dispute, the consolidation of customers’ 
businesses or any change in strategy or ordering requirements from customers could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s 
financial condition and prospects. It may also have wider profit and cash flow implications if the Group has sited its manufacturing 
plants in close proximity to theirs.
Supply chain risks
The Group’s ability to deliver according to market demands depends in large part on obtaining timely and adequate supplies of 
components and raw materials on competitive terms and in line with product quality and safety standards. Failure in the supply chain 
could interrupt its product supply, limit sales and increase costs. Suppliers may from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies 
or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Despite the Group’s efforts to select its suppliers and manage its 
supplier relationships with scrutiny, a component supplier may fail to meet the Group’s supplier requirements, such as, most notably, 
the Group’s and its customers’ product quality, safety and other corresponding standards. Any of these events could delay the 
successful delivery of products and solutions, which meet the Group’s and its customers’ quality, safety and other corresponding 
requirements, or otherwise adversely affect its sales and the Group’s financial performance. Also the Group’s reputation and brand 
value may be adversely affected due to real or alleged failures in its products and solutions. Laird PLC    29   
Exposure to increases in the price of commodities and raw materials
The raw materials used in the business include commodities such as copper and beryllium copper, steel, aluminium, silver and zinc. 
These commodities experience price volatility which can impact on profits, caused by changes in supply and demand, commodity 
market fluctuations and governmental attitudes. If the Group is unable to implement measures to mitigate increased costs relating to 
increases in commodity and raw material prices, or to increase the price of its products to customers, its operating profits might be 
materially adversely affected.
Operational and product risks
In common with all manufacturing industries, the Group faces a range of operational risks including potential business interruption 
from loss of a major facility or IT system, industrial unrest and the consequences of health and safety/environmental incidents. 
Damage to its premises, plant and equipment resulting for example, from fire, flood or storm may occur and notwithstanding the 
fact that some of these risks are insured, may disrupt the Group’s activities and prevent it from properly performing its contractual 
obligations and maintaining its sales, and may result in increased operating costs. Product risks, potentially resulting in reputation 
damage, or contractual penalties, may arise from failure of operational controls in its own, or supplier facilities.
Risks relating to Intellectual Property Rights
The Group’s products and solutions include technologies in which it holds the intellectual property rights. Third parties may infringe 
the Group’s intellectual property or commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of the intellectual property rights of these 
technologies, either of which could have a material adverse effect on its results. The Group utilises a combination of trade secrets, 
confidentiality policies, non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements in addition to relying on patent, copyright and trademark 
laws to protect its intellectual property rights. However, these measures may not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or 
other misappropriation. Additionally, recognising that its products incorporate a wide variety of technologies, claims could be asserted 
against the Group that it has infringed the intellectual property owned by others. Such claims might require the Group to incur legal 
costs, to enter into settlement or licence agreements, or to face legal restrictions on selling certain products. 
Environmental and Health and Safety
The Group is subject to certain environmental and health and safety laws and regulations that affect its operations, facilities and 
products in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. The Group is committed to operating in compliance with all environmental, 
health and safety laws and regulations relating to its products, operations and business activities. However, there is a risk that it 
may have to incur unforeseen expenditures to cover environmental and health liabilities, to maintain compliance with current or 
future environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or to undertake any necessary remediation. It is difficult to estimate 
reasonably the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities, with any certainty, due to a number of factors, 
especially the lengthy time intervals often involved in resolving them.
Additionally, the Group could be liable for remediation of contaminated sites, including some sites no longer owned by it. The Group 
makes provision for the expected cost of remediation based on independent professional advice. However, there is a risk that 
remediation could prove more costly than expected or that new contamination could be discovered.
Financial risks
In addition to any potential exposure to risks related to the general supply of credit and related insurances and to the failure of a key 
banking business partner that we share with all businesses in the current economic climate, the Group is subject to various financial 
and fiscal risks by virtue of its global operations and customer base. Further information on Taxation, Currency Exposures, Credit 
Risk and Interest Rate Risk are given in notes 11 and 28 to the financial statements. Information on the Group’s defined benefit 
pension schemes is given in note 35 to the financial statements.
Loss of key management or personnel
The Group is highly reliant on the continued services of its senior management, including executive directors, and other key 
personnel. These individuals possess revenue and marketing, engineering, manufacturing, technical, financial and administrative skills 
that are critical to the continued successful operation of the Group’s businesses.
Additionally, the ability of the Group to meet the demands of the market and to compete effectively is, to a large extent, dependent 
on the skills, experience and performance of its employees. Failure to retain such individuals, or to attract and retain strong 
management and technical staff in the future, could have an adverse effect upon the business and the results of its operations. 
The group is reliant on the ready availability of manufacturing personnel and operators.
Significant contracts
The Group has arrangements with its major customers and suppliers whereby regional or global terms of supply are agreed. 
However, these arrangements do not amount to contractual obligations to purchase and supply as these are covered by individual 
purchase orders.
Share capital
The Company has only one class of share and the rights attaching to each share are identical. Details of the rights and obligations 
attaching to the shares are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association which are available on its website. The Company may 
refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share. At a general meeting of the Company, every member has 
one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held. Details of the voting procedure are set out in the notice 
of meeting. 
In the year to 31 December 2009 the issued share capital was increased by the issue of 88,767,402 ordinary shares following the 
Rights Issue announced on 28 October 2009. At 31 December 2009 the issued share capital of the Company was 266,302,206 
ordinary shares of 28.125p each. Details of the share capital and options outstanding as at 31 December 2009 are shown in 
note 29 on page 76.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 April 2010, the shareholders will be requested to renew the directors’ power to allot 
shares in the Company; the disapplication of pre-emption rights and authorise the Company to make purchases of up to 10% of 
its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange. As at 9 March 2010 no shares have been purchased pursuant to this authority. 
Shareholders will be requested to renew these authorities at the Annual General Meeting and details are set out in the notice of meeting. 30    Laird PLC
Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Directors
Re-election of directors
The directors as shown on pages 26 and 27 were all directors throughout the year to 31 December 2009. The Company’s Articles 
of Association (which require shareholder approval for any amendments), set out the powers of the directors and the regulations for 
their appointment and removal. 
At the 2009 Annual General Meeting the directors obtained Shareholders’ approval to allot shares, in accordance with guidance 
issued by the Association of British Insurers, up to two thirds of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company provided that 
if the amount issued exceeded one third of the issued ordinary share capital then, pursuant to the guidance, the directors would all 
stand for re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting. The 1 for 2 Rights Issue announced on 28 October 2009 did exceed one 
third of the issued ordinary share capital and accordingly all of the directors will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting. Mr N J Keen who has served longer than nine years on the Board fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance at the time of his appointment and the Board is satisfied that Mr Keen remains free from 
any relationship with the executive management of the Company which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent 
judgement. During his Chairmanship, Mr Keen has overseen the restructuring of Laird PLC, in particular the successful disposal of 
Laird Security Systems Division in April 2007 which resulted in Laird becoming a focused electronics and technology company. He 
has also overseen the strengthening and development of the Board. The Board believes that Mr Keen makes a valuable contribution 
and wishes him to continue as Chairman because of his wide experience of business, particularly in the high technology area and his 
long-standing financial experience. None of the non-executive directors offering themselves for re-election has a service contract with 
the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Biographical details and reasons for reappointment for the non-executive directors are given 
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ interests
No director had, in the year to 31 December 2009, a material interest in any third party contract of significance with the Company or 
any of its subsidiaries. Directors’ shareholdings at 31 December 2009 are shown below. These interests were unchanged at 9 March 
2010. Details of share options are shown in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 40 to 46.
Ordinary Shares at
 31.12.09 1.1.09
  
N J Keen 326,890 117,927
P J Hill 300,630 200,420
J C Silver 375,000 250,000
M L Rapp 101,273 67,516
Sir Christopher Hum 4,500 3,000
Professor M J Kelly 2,250 1,500
A J Reading 22,499 15,000
A M Robb 37,500 25,000
Dr W R Spivey 158,233 105,489
  
Directors’ Conflicts of Interest
With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential 
conflicts of interest, where appropriate. This is subject to only directors who have no interest in the matter taking the decision and 
having acted in good faith for what they consider to be most likely to promote the Company’s success. The shareholders approved 
the requisite amendment to the Company’s Articles of Association at the 2008 Annual General Meeting. A register of conflicts or 
potential conflicts of interest has been prepared and it is available at every Board Meeting. 
Directors’ Indemnities
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has indemnified the directors in respect of proceedings brought by 
third parties and such indemnification was in place throughout the year.
In 2005 two of Laird’s final salary pension schemes were merged and in 2008 a further three schemes were merged. The trustees of the 
schemes, including Mr Keen who is Chairman of the trustees of the surviving scheme, received an indemnity from the Company against 
any claim or other liability arising out of or in connection with the pension schemes and their agreement to the merger.
Employment policy
The Group is organised on a decentralised basis with managers of subsidiary companies responsible for developing employment 
policies appropriate to the size, organisation and location of their businesses. Various methods are used throughout the Group 
as appropriate in each location for tracking morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which are reported regularly to local 
management teams.
The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities in terms of recruitment, training and career development for all employees, 
including those with disabilities. 
A copy of the Group’s Employment and Human Rights policy statement is available on the Company’s website. Laird PLC    31   
Employee participation
The Board recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its employees and therefore encourages 
two-way communication. Operating subsidiaries encourage consultation at local level and performance and development reviews 
reinforce the link between business goals, an employee’s contribution and his/her remuneration. Laird communicates regularly with its 
employees, including information on key events within the Group, charity and community involvement and employee achievements. 
Subsidiaries are encouraged to make all employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of their 
companies. 
Change of control arrangements
Four employees of the Company have long-standing agreements which provide compensation, in addition to the contractual notice 
period, of up to a maximum of two years’ base salary for loss of employment which occurs as a result of a takeover offer or scheme. 
This additional compensation reduces pro rata to zero over the two years following the date of change of control. No director 
benefits from these arrangements.
On a change of control, the Company’s 5 year bilateral revolving credit facilities may be cancelled by the lenders by not less than 
30 days notice to the Company.
Corporate social responsibility 
In recognition that the Group’s businesses and its activities involve a wide community of stakeholders including investors, employees, 
customers, suppliers and local communities, the Board reviews the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters which 
may affect the Group. A Corporate social responsibility report providing further detail can be found on pages 36 to 39.
Health and safety at work
Laird is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and continuous improvement is sought by the setting 
of objectives and targets based on relevant national and international health and safety standards and monitoring performance against 
these. In addition Laird maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to promote and develop good health 
and safety practices. Further information is shown in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 36 to 39.
Research and development
In recognition of the importance of investing in research and development programmes to foster product innovation and 
manufacturing improvements in the Group, expenditure in 2009 on research and development amounted to £42.8 million 
(2008, £39.0 million), of which £11.1 million has been capitalised (2008, £7.3 million). Laird continues to develop its technology 
capabilities, with research and development expenditure during the year running at 8.1% of sales (2008, 6.1%).
Basis of preparation of the accounts
As set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities on page 47, the accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis. 
A statement on going concern relating to a business requires judgement at a point in time about future events which by their nature 
are inherently uncertain. The directors have considered the ability of the Group to maintain committed loan finance, meet existing 
debt covenants and the impact of foreign currency exposures, as discussed in the Finance Director’s report on pages 22 to 25. 
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Financial assets and liabilities
An analysis of Group debt is given in note 22 to the financial statements. An analysis of financial instruments at carrying value and 
fair value is given in note 28 to the financial statements. Financial instruments and related disclosures together with a discussion of 
financial risk management objectives and exposures to credit and liquidity risk are in accordance with IFRS 7.
Supplier payment policy
The Group requires its subsidiaries to negotiate clear and satisfactory arrangements for the payment of suppliers, as part of the 
overall terms and conditions of the supply, and to make payment accordingly. At the year end the Group had only one UK operating 
subsidiary and it had 52 days of purchases outstanding.
Auditor
It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditor.
Shareholders
At 31 December 2009 there were 3,685 shareholders.
Substantial equity interests
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules (“DTRs”) issued by the Financial Services Authority require notifications relating to control 
over exercising voting rights attached to shares. Categories of notifiable interests include direct interests (holdings of shares with 
voting rights attached), indirect interests (those with access to voting rights) and financial instruments (which give the holder the 
formal entitlement to acquire shares with voting rights attached). Notification must be made of each category, and also the aggregate 
of combined holdings, which exceed or fall below the notifiable threshold. The requirements of the DTRs specify that notifications of 
holdings of over 3% only have to be made when a full percentage point increase or decrease occurs. The Company has only one 
class of shares, and does not hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights under the DTRs is equivalent to the number 
of shares in issue. 32    Laird PLC
Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
As at 8 March 2010 the Company had received the notifications of control of 3% or more over the Company’s total voting rights and 
capital in issue as set out below. 
Number of 
Shares
Percentage 
of voting rights
  
Aviva Plc and its subsidiaries 44,887,305 16.86
Prudential Corporation Group of Companies 13,608,945 5.11
Lloyds Banking Group PLC 13,564,836 5.09
Old Mutual Asset Managers (UK) Ltd 13,248,406 4.97
Ameriprise Financial Inc and its Group 13,230,231 4.97
Ignis Investment Services Limited 11,662,077 4.38
Standard Life Investments Ltd 8,855,604 3.33
Schroders plc and its subsidiaries 8,809,820 3.31
  
Charitable donations
In the year to 31 December 2009, the Company gave £9,200 to UK charities (2008, £4,880). 
Disclosure of information to the Auditor
As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware. Each director has taken such steps as he should have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
By Order of the Board
A M Downie
Secretary
9 March 2010
Registered ofﬁ ce 
100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ
Registered in England No. 55513 Laird PLC    33   
Corporate governance report
for the year to 31 December 2009
The Board considered that during the year ended 31 December 2009 the Company was in compliance with all of the provisions of 
section 1 (Companies) of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board
The responsibilities and objectives of the Board
The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are the owners of the Company. The Board’s principal responsibility is to act in 
the best interests of the shareholders as a whole within the legal framework of the Companies Act 2006. The Board establishes 
the aims and objectives for the Company, approves the strategic direction and plans and the operating budgets proposed by the 
Chief Executive, and monitors performance against them. The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the key risks faced by the Company, for exercising proper and appropriate corporate governance, for establishing and ensuring the 
effectiveness of the Company’s systems of internal control and reviewing management performance. Through the Chief Executive, 
the Board has regard to the necessary financial and human resources required to meet the Company’s objectives.
The composition of the Board
The composition of the Board is outlined on pages 26 and 27. The Board comprises an appropriate mix of executive and non-executive 
directors and is of a size and includes the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business. There is a clear 
written division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which has been agreed by the Board. Mr Reading is 
the senior independent non-executive director. The principal role of the senior independent non-executive director is to be available 
to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive. 
As has been the practice for a number of years, the major shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet with the senior 
non-executive director during the year. 
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent. Mr Keen, the Chairman, was appointed to the 
Board as an independent non-executive director in 1993. Mr Keen fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined 
Code at the time of his appointment and the Board is satisfied that Mr Keen remains free from any relationship with the executive 
management of the Company which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement. The terms and 
conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available from the Company on request and will be on display at the 
Annual General Meeting. At the Annual General Meeting every year at least one third of the directors retire from office. Such rotation 
of directors ensures that directors submit themselves for re-election regularly, and at least every three years. Laird took advantage of 
the authority granted at last year’s Annual General Meeting to allot up to an additional third of the Company’s shares for the purposes 
of the Rights Issue announced on 28 October 2009, and therefore the directors, pursuant to guidance issued by the Association of 
British Insurers, will all be standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2010. 
The operation of the Board
The Board meets at least eight times a year. A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be discussed is normally set out at 
least twelve months in advance. Due to the economic downturn, there were no site visits by the Board during 2009, however, the 
heads of the operating divisions and the Head of Global Human Resources attended Board Meetings. The head of the Corporate 
Research Laboratory in Bangalore, India attended another Board Meeting held during the year with members of the laboratory giving 
presentations by video link. The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to Committees which are described below. The Board 
determines the membership and Chairmanship of the Committees. Minutes of those Committee meetings are circulated to Board 
Members prior to each Board Meeting. All directors receive Board Papers prior to the Meetings which include detailed financial 
information and a comprehensive operational overview from the Chief Executive. The Chairman and the non-executive directors 
meet at least twice a year without the executive directors present and the senior independent director meets at least annually with 
the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved for Board approval, including for example significant long term obligations 
such as capital investments, acquisitions and divestments above certain levels, the raising of new capital and entering into loan 
agreements. The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive.
Communications with shareholders
Communication with shareholders takes place through the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report. Additional 
information, including interim management statements, copies of other press releases, presentations and webcasts, is published 
on the Company’s website. Presentations covering strategic issues as well as financial and operating performance were made to 
major shareholders through investor roadshows in the UK during the year. Laird PLC, within the limits imposed by the Listing Rules, 
enters into a dialogue with institutional shareholders to develop an understanding of their views and to communicate and explain 
the Company’s objectives. The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with shareholders and report to the Board 
following these meetings. The Board is kept up to date with investors’ views through the distribution of analysts’ and brokers’ 
notes. In addition, the Company’s stockbroker periodically contacts shareholders and provides non-attributable feedback which is 
reported to the Board, for example, a report following the Rights Issue announced in October was reviewed by the Board. Following 
presentations to analysts of the interim and full year results, confidential exit polls are conducted by outside consultants and the 
results are reported to the Board. From time to time more extensive formal surveys on a non-attributable basis are commissioned.
The Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director are available for meetings with shareholders in the event that there 
are any concerns which cannot be addressed through management, or in connection with any significant change to the Company’s 
strategy, remuneration policy or governance arrangements. The Chairman and senior independent director discussed governance 
and remuneration with certain institutional investors during the year. 
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with both private investors and institutional shareholders 
and encourages them to attend. Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally 
after the meeting. The Chairman gives a formal report on the Company’s progress at the meeting. A copy of his statement is issued to the 
London Stock Exchange and is published on the Company’s website. All of the directors attended the AGM in 2009 and the chairmen of 
the various Board Committees were available to answer questions relating to their areas of responsibility. The number of proxy votes cast 
for, against or withheld on the resolutions are reported to the meeting and, following the meeting, are published on the Company’s website. 34    Laird PLC
Corporate governance report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2009
Committees of the Board
The written Terms of Reference of the Committees are available on the Company’s website, from the Company on request and 
will be on display at the Annual General Meeting. The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board, as appropriate, and the 
minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee members are all independent non-executive directors. The Chairman of the Committee is Mr A M Robb and 
the other members of the Committee during the year were Mr A J Reading and Dr W R Spivey. The Board ensures that at least 
one member has recent and relevant financial experience, currently Mr Robb, and it is satisfied that the Committee as a whole has 
sufficient financial, international and commercial experience to enable it to carry out its duties. The non-executive directors who are 
not members of the Audit Committee are also invited to attend meetings and frequently do so. The Chairman of the Board, the 
Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the external auditor are given notice 
of all meetings and may be invited to attend and speak at any meeting. The Committee and the external auditor met formally without 
any executive directors present once during the year. The Committee ensures that this happens at least once a year in 
order to discuss any issues or concerns from either party.
The Audit Committee, which met five times during the year, is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Company which are relied upon by the Board. The Audit Committee Terms of Reference (which are available on the Company’s website) 
set out its responsibilities and procedures. The Committee reviews the Group and Company’s financial statements prior to their publication 
with particular reference to significant financial reporting issues and judgements. During the year, the Annual Report and Accounts; the 
AGM and interim management statement; the Interim Report on the Results for the half year and the October interim management 
statement were reviewed by the Committee before recommending them to the Board for approval. The Committee reviewed the circular 
for the Rights Issue announced in October 2009. It also received a formal report on litigation and claims twice during the year.
The Committee oversees the internal audit function and also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls. The 
Committee considers the scope and planning of internal financial audits and reviews the process for identifying and managing 
financial risk and the findings of those audits. Deloitte & Touche LLP , who provide global internal audit services under the direction 
of the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit, attended one Committee meeting during the year. The Director of Risk 
Management and Internal Audit briefed the Audit Committee three times on key internal audit matters and findings of internal audit 
investigations. He had the opportunity at each meeting to meet with the Audit Committee without any executive directors present 
and he met separately with the Chairman of the Audit Committee on one further occasion during the year.
The Committee reviews the Company’s procedure for handling allegations from whistleblowers as set out in the Company’s Business 
Ethics and Conduct Policy (which is on the Company’s website) and any whistleblowing events are brought to its attention. In 
2008, a review of the Company’s whistleblowing procedure was carried out and a new independent telephone and internet provider 
appointed. This whistleblowing service, which offers a relevant language service in all countries in which Laird operates, was 
launched in March 2009. Investigation of all whistleblower communications is overseen by the Director of Risk Management and 
Internal Audit with findings reported to the Board.
The appointment and terms of engagement of Ernst & Young LLP , the external auditor, including the proposed fee structure, were 
considered and the independence of the external auditor assessed. The Committee considered the scope and planning of the 
external financial audit and assessed the effectiveness of the audit process, including a report on the audit firm’s own internal quality 
control procedures. 
The Committee has reviewed Ernst & Young’s key policies for maintaining objectivity and independence, including the policy for the 
rotation of audit partners which requires a new lead audit partner to be appointed every five years.
The Committee also recommends for Board approval a policy for non-audit services to be performed by the auditor or other third party 
provider, particularly in cases where the auditor’s opinion is required by statute such as circulars to shareholders, so as to ensure that 
the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditor’s independence or objectivity. This policy prohibits the use of the 
external audit firm for certain specified matters and the hiring of its former employees. There are often sound commercial and practical 
reasons, including confidentiality, for using Ernst & Young LLP to provide non-audit services. During the year, Ernst & Young LLP provided 
tax planning and compliance advice, regulatory compliance work and undertook work in connection with the Rights Issue Circular dated 
29 October 2009. Where applicable, competitive quotes are obtained. Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in note 6 on page 60. 
The Committee has authority to seek any information it requires from any officer or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiary 
undertakings. It believes that it has received sufficient, reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its 
responsibilities during the year. The Audit Committee can take such independent professional advice as it considers necessary. 
The Committee recommended to the Board, the re-election of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor. 
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman and at least two non-executive directors. It is chaired by Mr N J Keen and 
comprised Mr A J Reading and Sir Christopher Hum. Professor Kelly attended the committee meeting in place of Sir Christopher Hum 
when the latter’s re-appointment was considered. The Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, regularly reviews the structure, 
size and composition (including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience) required of the Board and makes recommendations 
to the Board with regard to any changes. At least annually the Committee reviews the performance of the Chief Executive. It is 
responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board having regard to the overall skills 
balance and composition of the Board. It reviews and advises upon succession planning and takes into account the need to refresh 
the Board ensuring that changes to the Board’s composition can be managed without undue disruption. The Committee is assisted 
by external search consultancies in identifying suitable candidates. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr A J Reading and currently comprises the Chairman, Mr N J Keen, and all the other 
non-executive directors, who are all considered to be independent. It met five times in 2009 and is responsible for recommending 
to the Board the Company’s general policy on remuneration and in particular to determine the remuneration and benefits of the 
executive directors, the grant of all options and award of shares under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Scheme. In accordance  Laird PLC    35   
with the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Board is not the chairman of the Committee. The 
Remuneration Committee, excluding the Chairman, determines the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment. 
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings and, when requested by the Chairman of the Committee, attends a portion of the 
meetings. In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive is consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other 
executive directors and employees. Further details on the Remuneration Committee are to be found in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on page 40. 
Administration Committee
The Administration Committee of the Board consists of any two or more directors and deals with items of a routine and 
administrative nature. 
Performance of the Board
During the last twelve months the Board has conducted a self-evaluation assessment of itself and its committees. Following completion 
of questionnaires by all directors, the Chairman held one–to-one discussions with each director and led discussions to consider 
the Board’s “behaviours” and “processes”. Certain areas were identified for improvement or action. The Audit, Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees also considered their own performance and reported to the Board thereon. The performance of individual 
directors has been considered by the Chairman and Chief Executive in discussion with other non-executive directors. The non-executive 
directors have considered the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors. The Chairman and 
Chief Executive have considered the performance of the executive directors which is also discussed with the non-executive directors.
Board attendance
The Board had nine meetings during 2009. All of the directors attended all of the meetings. Whenever a director is unable to attend a 
meeting, the director, if possible, consults with the Chairman prior to the meeting and is briefed by the Chairman after the meeting.
There were five Audit Committee meetings, five Remuneration Committee meetings and two Nominations Committee meetings 
during the year; at all of which there was full attendance.
Share Capital
Information on the Company’s share capital is set out on page 29 of the Directors’ report and in note 29 on page 76.
Internal control
Laird PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with businesses primarily located overseas. These businesses are organised 
as subsidiary companies where the management of these companies are appointed to manage within the framework established 
by the Laird PLC Board, as well as complying with local statutory and regulatory requirements. Overall responsibility for the Group’s 
systems of internal control and reviewing their effectiveness lies with the Laird PLC Board. During the year a review was carried out 
which assessed the adequacy of those systems. Primary responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the managers of the 
subsidiaries. Laird PLC’s executive directors are responsible for implementing Group policy and for monitoring the businesses and 
performance of operating companies and units and reporting to the Board thereon. The financial information received by Laird PLC is 
reviewed at divisional level as well as by the Finance Department of Laird PLC who review the consolidation and financial statements 
to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and complies with 
the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is regularly reviewed by the Board. This process has been in place 
for the full financial year and up to the date the accounts were approved by the Board. The systems of internal control are designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives as well as safeguarding the Group’s assets. These 
systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Group operating rules are issued each year to the managers of subsidiaries setting out their responsibilities and the procedures to be 
followed to agree their commercial and financial objectives. These rules require approval for specific transactions and call for accurate 
and relevant financial information to be delivered on a timely basis. The ability to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting of 
management information and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
Subsidiaries submit their budgets annually to Laird PLC’s executive directors. In addition, through a risk and controls self-assessment 
process, they are required to identify the key risk and control issues that their businesses face and set out the strategies they will employ 
to manage them. The issues raised by the subsidiaries are reviewed by the Board as part of the annual risk review process. A risk 
management update, reporting emergent risks and any changes to the risk environment, is presented at all Board Meetings. This process 
is supplemented by papers submitted to the Board by the executive directors throughout the year and by meetings from time to time 
between the Board and the management of the subsidiaries, some of which take place at the premises of the operating companies. 
The Chief Executive presents the Group’s business objectives which are approved by the Board, and the Board also addresses those 
risks which affect Laird as a whole. The Board instigates further reports and investigations as it considers necessary.
Risk management strategy, risk performance monitoring and risk oversight at Group level for all areas including operational, environmental 
and health and safety risk rests with the Laird Risk Management Group (“RMG”). The RMG is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and 
reports to the Board. Co-ordination of risk identification and review and actions in all areas below corporate level and improvements in 
controls and operational risk management are driven by the Laird Technologies Risk Management Committee (“RMC”), chaired by the 
President of one of Laird Technologies’ business divisions, with representation for all divisions and Laird Technologies functions. The RMC 
and RMG both met three times during the year. The Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the Chairman of the RMC are 
members of both committees, reinforcing consistency and linking between Laird’s risk management strategy and its implementation 
in all countries. Further details on the RMG and RMC are set out in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 36 to 39.
As noted above, the Audit Committee reviews the Group and Company’s financial statements. It also has responsibility for reviewing 
the process for identifying and managing financial risk and for reviewing the internal financial controls and considers the scope 
and planning of internal and external audits. It reviews reports on internal financial control including reports by the Director of Risk 
Management and Internal Audit and the Finance Director and the results from internal financial audits. As part of their audit, the 
external auditor, to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit opinion, review and test the systems of internal control 
and the data contained in the accounts, including an independent and objective review of the approach of management to the 
reporting of the operating results and financial condition. 36    Laird PLC
Corporate social responsibility
for the year to 31 December 2009
Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings (“Laird”) involves a wide community of stakeholders, including investors, employees, 
customers, suppliers and local communities. During the year Laird’s membership of the FTSE4Good UK Index, a financial index 
series that is designed to identify and facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility 
standards, was renewed. 
Product Stewardship
Laird designs and supplies innovative, value-added products that advance performance and protection across the electronics 
market, improving the quality of life for people who use them. As a forward-thinking business, Laird recognises the need to behave 
as a good corporate citizen and pursue environmentally-conscious design and manufacturing practices, via various strategies 
including maximising resource productivity and minimising energy intensity.
Within the Handset Metals unit all metals are recyclable and 100 per cent of metal process scrap is recycled. In addition, in-house 
design technology is employed to optimise the strength of the metals, which in turn helps to reduce the amount required, thus 
making products lighter, which in turn reduces overall raw material use. During the year two new technologies were introduced in the 
visual metals product line; PVD chrome finishing and the laser engraving of metal surfaces, replacing nickel chromium plating and 
chemical etching processes.
Laird’s environmentally-friendly product design strategies have delivered Beryllium-free Recyclable Clean Copper™ gaskets, which 
alleviate any environmental, safety and segregation concerns associated with the traditional use and recycling of Beryllium-based 
copper alloys. Laird also manufactures a variety of EcoGreen™ gap filler and insulator products which offer a halogen-free option 
with uncompromised EMI shielding effectiveness and halogen-free casings for signal integrity products.
Laird actively develops products which encourage responsible energy use, including thermal management products for customers 
working with less energy-intensive LED lighting. 
Business Ethics
Laird believes that high standards of business ethics are critical in today’s business world and therefore places high priority on 
compliance with all legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance of high ethical standards, within each of the 
territories and jurisdictions in which it conducts its business.
Laird commits to conducting itself, and expects all employees to conduct themselves, in an honest, ethical manner in all dealings on 
its behalf and to behave professionally and with integrity and fairness. Laird applies these same standards to all business dealings 
with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Laird’s policy is that businesses should compete enthusiastically and fairly in the marketplace and must comply with the relevant 
competition laws of each country in which it operates.
Laird launched a statement of Global Values and a Global Code of Conduct during the year, with the latter including policies and 
guidelines relating to human rights, equal opportunity, ethics, compliance, anti-harassment, conflicts of interests and regulatory 
compliance. 
Laird implemented a global Ethics Hotline during the year to provide a confidential way for employees to raise concerns about 
inappropriate behaviour. The hotline utilises an independent telephone and internet provider, offering support in local languages and 
has an internal escalation and resolution process driven by the Risk Management Committee.
A copy of Laird’s Business Ethics and Conduct Policy statement is available on the Company’s website or from the Company 
on request.
Human Rights
The International Labour Organisation, a tripartite UN agency bringing together governments, employers and workers of its member 
states in common action to promote decent working conditions throughout the world, has identified eight Core Conventions as 
being fundamental to the rights of human beings at work. These Core Conventions cover: commitment to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining, equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value, the abolition of forced labour, 
the elimination of discrimination on grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, and the 
abolition of child labour. Laird has expressed its support for the International Labour Organisation eight Core Conventions and has 
stated its commitment to the principles within these conventions. 
A copy of Laird’s Employment and Human Rights policy statement is available on the Company’s website or from the Company 
on request.
Empl  oyee development and communication
Laird recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its employees. Consultation is encouraged at 
local level and performance and development reviews reinforce the link between business goals, an employee’s contribution and 
his/her remuneration. A leadership assessment tool has been implemented for relevant appointed and/or promoted candidates. 
Laird communicates regularly with its employees, including information on key events within the business and charity and community 
involvement and employee achievements. During the year Laird held global monthly site meetings and ‘Town Hall’ meetings led by 
the executive team, conducted employee satisfaction surveys, produced quarterly communications videos and launched an updated 
employee intranet website. Laird PLC    37   
Electronic Industry Code of Conduct
Laird is committed to ensuring that its supply base complies with the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC), and has therefore 
implemented these requirements into its business systems and continues to audit and work with its suppliers to ensure compliance. 
The EICC, a code of best practice adopted and implemented by some of the world’s major electronics brands and their suppliers, 
sets forth performance, compliance, auditing and reporting guidelines across five areas of social responsibility:
 Labour
 Health and Safety
 Environmental
 Management Systems
 Ethics
In 2008 a Supplier Assessment element was added to Laird’s processes and in 2009 suppliers representing approximately 51% of 
Laird’s largest suppliers, accounting for approximately 90% of total spend, were assessed. 2010 will see the completion of 100% of 
large supplier assessments.
Continuous Improvement
Laird continued to see gains in its manufacturing processes, product quality and customer satisfaction ratings, alongside cost 
reductions, through its Six Sigma CIP (Continuous Improvement Process) programme during 2009. The combined Six Sigma 
and CIP approach has established a foundation for best practice across Laird for problem solving and since its inception in 2005 
has delivered solid results year on year. The CIP programme was expanded during the year to include Design for Six Sigma and 
Advanced Lean Manufacturing at several major facilities. With a well established system and infrastructure in place, Laird will continue 
to expand and broaden the initiative across all of its facilities to support its strategies and strengthen its capabilities. 
Risk Management
In 2008, a new risk management framework was embedded across Laird. Under this framework, delivery of improvements 
in controls and operational risk management, including health, safety and environment initiatives, are driven by the Laird Risk 
Management Committee (“RMC”), chaired by the President of one of Laird’s business divisions and with senior representatives of all 
divisions and key corporate functions. Risk management strategy, risk performance monitoring and oversight at corporate level rests 
with the Laird Risk Management Group (“RMG”), to which the RMC reports.  The revised RMG is chaired by the Laird PLC Chief 
Executive and reports to the Board. The RMC and RMG each meet at least three times a year.
Health, Safety and Environmental Policy 
A copy of Laird’s Health, Safety and Environmental Policy statement is available on the Company’s website or from the Company 
on request.
Laird is committed to pursuing high standards of environmental performance including the maintenance of safe and healthy working 
environments and maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to stimulate continuous improvement and 
promote and develop good health, safety and environmental practices. 
2009 has seen further progress in overall performance in the areas of Health, Safety and Environmental management, driven by the 
continuation of Laird’s ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 integrated Health, Safety and Environmental management system accreditation 
programme; a joint standard to which twelve Laird facilities are certified, all of which successfully completed re-certification or 
surveillance audits during the year. Three IMS certified facilities were downsized or closed during the year due to the economic 
downturn. A further three major facilities are on schedule to achieve Integrated Systems certification in 2010. This is in addition to 
the majority of Laird’s main manufacturing facilities being ISO 9000 and ISO 9001 certified. 
Laird’s environmental strategy focuses on energy and greenhouse gas reduction initiatives, sharing successful ideas and best 
practice wherever appropriate across all plants globally. Within this overall strategy, Laird continues to prioritise action at its largest 
plants, where the initiatives have the biggest immediate impact. 
The results of the health, safety and environmental audits and their follow up are monitored by the RMC. Health, safety and 
environmental training is provided, and reinforced via refresher courses where necessary, to designated employees and focuses on 
the perceived risk within each business. 
Health and Safety Management
Worldwide employee headcount for Laird’s operations increased from c. 11,189 at the end of 2008, to 12,290 at the end of 2009. 
The average number of Laird employees in 2009 was 11,765 (2008, 14,718).
Laird records near misses, minor and reportable accidents, based on a uniform reporting standard, at all facilities along with total 
hours worked which together provides an aggregate annualised minor/reportable accident rate per 100 employees.
In 2009, total reportable accident rates decreased 25% to 0.15/100 employees vs. 0.2/100 employees in 2008, on a 24% decrease 
in total hours worked. Minor accident rates decreased 53% to 0.19/100 employees.  38    Laird PLC
Corporate social responsibility (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2009
15,000
10,000
0
AVERAGE EMPLOYEE
HEADCOUNT
0.3
0.1
0.2
0
REPORTABLE ACCIDENTS
PER 100 EMPLOYEES
2008 2009
5,000
2008 2009
2009 Health and Safety achievements
 Laird’s facility in San Jose, USA reduced total workplace accident rates by 100% in 2009 vs. 2008, recording zero accidents, on 
working hours up 35%.
 Laird’s Chennai, India facility reduced total workplace accident rates by 50% from 0.4/100 employees in 2008 to 0.2/100 
employees in 2009, on an increase in working hours of 43%.
 Laird’s facility in Gothenburg, Sweden reduced total workplace accident rates by 100% in 2009 vs. 2008, recording zero 
accidents, on working hours up 7%.
 Laird’s facility in Beijing, China was awarded a Beijing Development Area (BDA) 2009 Best Practice Award for Production Safety. 
The BDA credited the provision of fluorescent safety armbands to employees travelling to/from work, best practice fire drills and 
the achievement of the highest score on the BDA-administered Work Safety Supervision.
 Laird’s Tianjin, China facility received various awards from the local government during the year, including a Safety Management 
award and a Social Welfare Model of Excellence award. 
Environmental Management
Detailed policies are developed, implemented and regularly reviewed by Laird and its businesses to reflect their specific trading 
activities and the associated risks. Laird’s minimum requirements are for its businesses to comply with local legislation and to 
operate continuous improvement programmes, to ensure that efficient use is made of all resources, including energy, water and 
raw materials, that emissions are restricted to within best practice levels, waste is minimised and accidents are prevented through 
comprehensive training.
Laird undertakes a rolling programme of environmental audits covering all of its manufacturing sites. The formalisation of 
environmental management systems via the certified Environmental and Health and Safety standards promotes continuous 
improvement and allows consistent monitoring of energy source reduction, waste treatment and the re-use and reclamation of 
natural resources. 
In 2009, while actual CO
2 emissions and power consumption fell, reduction in revenue during the global depression meant that 
Laird’s CO
2 emissions per £m of sales increased by 9% to 70,379 kilograms per £1m of sales while power consumption relative 
to sales increased 4% to 181,461 KwH per £1m of sales. The fall in revenue in 2009, combined with increases in waste from 
transitional activity as Laird rationalised operations across sites and bought in-house production which had previously been 
outsourced, also resulted in increases in waste to landfill relative to sales, which increased 45% to 1,610 kilograms total waste to 
landfill per £1m of sales.
RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances)
RoHS is European Community Regulation 2002/95/EC which came into force on 1 July 2006. The Directive restricts the use 
of six substances in electronic products: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs) and 
polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs). 
As part of Laird’s Restricted Substance Management Plan, Laird‘s facility in Shenzhen, China utilises an in-house RoHS testing facility 
to ensure product compliance. This facility is testimony to Laird’s proactive approach to RoHS compliance, which is driven by a plan 
implemented at all manufacturing locations to manage processes and procedures associated with the Directive and other customer-
specific restricted substance product requirements. The Shenzhen RoHS laboratory attained international CNAS professional 
certification to ISO 17025 standards in 2008. Laird has also invested in in-house RoHS testing laboratories in Kunshan, China, along 
with screening equipment in Tianjin, China and Cleveland, USA, to enable internally verified RoHS and restricted substance product 
compliance.  Laird PLC    39   
In 2009 over 7,500 samples were tested for RoHS restricted substances in the laboratories in Shenzhen, Kunshan and Tianjin, 
resulting in net savings of approximately $1 million versus conducting the equivalent testing at an accredited third party laboratory. 
To date there have been no instances of major non-conformance with respect to RoHS/restricted substance compliance with 
Laird’s customers.
REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances)
REACH is a European Community Regulation on chemicals and their safe use (EC 1907/2006) which came into force on 1 June 
2007 and will be phased in over an eleven year period. Laird is committed to being proactive in the addressing of REACH 
compliance and will support implementation of the regulation as required. Laird has completed a REACH baseline applicability 
assessment involving the classification and review of all products and preparations and the identification and survey of applicable 
suppliers in the EU and internationally. At this time all applicable suppliers either have a REACH programme in place or acknowledge 
their intent to comply.
The implementation of a RoHS/REACH database, to manage better material and supplier compliance data, is scheduled for 2010.
2009 Environmental achievements
 Laird’s Shanghai, China Handset facility installed energy-saving purified water fountains, replacing the need for barrelled water, 
resulting in savings of $6,000 p.a.
 Laird’s Tianjin, China facility received a number of recognitions and awards from local government in 2009, including an award for 
excellence in environmental management. 
 Laird’s facility in Chennai, India successfully implemented a CIP project designed to eliminate the need for water-based degreasing 
in certain metal stamping operations. Cost savings to date amount to $54,000 with the future elimination of the need to make an 
$110,000 investment in degreasing equipment. The project has also reduced water consumption at the facility by 250 KL p.a. 
and saved 50 KwH per hour in electricity costs. The same facility also works with customers to recycle packaging trays, reels and 
other materials where possible. Materials are captured at point of use and returned to Laird for re-use, reducing the amount of 
waste materials and cost to the customer.
 Laird’s facilities in Beijing and Shunde, China were awarded certificates from major customers during the year for satisfying 
requirements of their Green Partner and Green Procurement programmes. 
Charitable Donations and Community Affairs
The well-being of the communities in which Laird operates is important to its long term development and success. 
During the year Laird gave £9,200 to charities (2008, £71,898, which included a donation of £54,263 to the Sichuan earthquake 
appeal). 
Examples of charitable initiatives are:
 Donation to UK charities including Marie Curie Cancer Care and Mencap.
 Support of local food banks with employee food contributions in North America and sponsorship of literacy programmes for 
individuals learning to speak English and/or enhance their skills.
 Employee participation in blood donation drives in Penang, Malaysia and participation in a Salvation Army Open Day to raise funds 
for the construction of homes providing shelter for local children.
 Support for Guide Dogs for the Blind in the UK through the sponsorship of a trainee Guide Dog.
 Donation of 22 computers to a school in Sichuan, China which was damaged by the earthquake in 2008.
 Organisation of local community events such as a basketball tournament in Shunde, China and Red Cross donation drives in 
Beijing, China.
 Donation of batteries and components with a sales value of $25,000 to build 500 radios for earthquake relief efforts in Haiti in 2010. 40    Laird PLC
Directors’ remuneration report
for the year to 31 December 2009
The Directors’ remuneration report sets out the Company’s policy on the remuneration of executive and non-executive directors 
together with details of directors’ remuneration packages and service contracts.
The Remuneration Committee, which met five times during the year, is responsible for recommending to the Board the Company’s 
general policy on remuneration and in particular determining the remuneration packages of the Chairman and the executive directors, 
and the grant of all options and awards of shares. The Chairman does not attend discussions on his own remuneration.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are appointed by the Board and the membership is reviewed at least annually. The 
Chairman of the Committee is appointed by the Board and cannot be the Chairman of the Board. The Chief Executive is given notice 
of all meetings and, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends the meetings. The Chief Executive may request that he 
attends and speaks at Committee meetings. In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive will be consulted on general policy matters 
and matters concerning the other executive directors and employees. The written Terms of Reference are available on the Company’s 
website and from the Company on request. They will also be on display at the Annual General Meeting. The Remuneration Committee, 
chaired by Mr A J Reading, comprises the Chairman, Mr N J Keen, and Sir Christopher Hum, Professor Michael Kelly, Mr A M Robb 
and Dr W R Spivey, all independent non-executive directors. Mr Keen is a member of the Committee because the Board considers it 
essential that the Chairman be involved in setting remuneration policy. Miss A M Downie, the Company Secretary, acts as Secretary 
to the Committee. The Board, as a whole, is responsible for setting the remuneration of the non-executive directors. 
The Remuneration Committee has during the past year retained Watson Wyatt Limited (now known as Towers Watson) to provide 
independent external professional advice in respect of, inter alia, their knowledge of shareholder views on remuneration, trends 
in market practice, and the validation of certain performance criteria. Towers Watson also provide pension actuarial services to 
Laird PLC and to the Trustees of the Laird Pension Scheme. The Remuneration Committee has also sought the views of the Chief 
Executive, Mr P J Hill, during the year. 
Remuneration Policy
The Remuneration Committee has established a policy on the remuneration of executive directors and the Board has established a 
policy for the non-executive directors.
Executive Directors 
The current policy for providing remuneration for the executive directors is to have an incentive driven remuneration package which 
promotes the alignment of interests of executive directors and shareholders. That policy is based upon the following principles:
 the need to link remuneration to achieving strategic objectives and to sustainable long-term corporate success having due regard 
to environmental, social and governance issues and the overall risk profile of the Group;
 the reward opportunity offered to executive directors should be sufficiently competitive to recruit and retain management of the 
appropriate calibre and experience; 
 the need to provide a total compensation package which reflects the international complexity of Laird’s operations; and
 to be mindful of Company performance and overall shareholder returns, and the implications of this for executive remuneration.
The executive directors receive base salary, annual performance awards up to a maximum percentage of base salary, pensions 
and other benefits, and long term performance awards. Base salaries, benefits and performance awards of the executive directors 
are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee. Base salaries are determined with reference to an appropriate comparator 
group of companies which is reviewed regularly. Benefits comprise the provision of a car or car allowance, life, disability and health 
insurance, participation in the annual performance scheme and membership of a pension scheme. Neither performance incentive 
awards nor benefits in kind are pensionable.
Performance linked incentives are a key component of the total remuneration package. Since 2003, the Remuneration Committee has 
granted options and awards under the Company’s executive share option plans and Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”). A summary 
of these arrangements is set out below. The Committee believes that a combination of Share Option Plans and the LTIP for senior 
executives is the most appropriate way of providing the incentive to create substantial improvement in the Company’s performance 
in a way that aligns the interests of executives and shareholders.
Service Agreements
Each of the executive directors has a service agreement. Messrs Hill and Silver’s service agreements are dated 8 March 2004. Mr Rapp’s 
service agreement is dated 31 December 2004. In line with the Company’s policy, the executive directors’ service agreements are not 
for a fixed term and provide for twelve months’ written notice of termination from either party. Mr Rapp’s service agreement is with Laird 
Technologies, Inc. and he has a separate letter dated 7 March 2008 from the Company in respect of his appointment as an executive 
director. In 2006, the terms of employment for the executive directors in the UK were amended to change the contractual retirement 
date from age 60 to age 65 to comply with the Employment Equality (Age) Regulations 2006 which came into force in the UK on 
1 October 2006. The executives may still retire at age 60 with their retirement benefits unchanged from the previous arrangements. 
The Company’s policy on termination is to comply with the contractual terms and conditions set out in the service agreement. The 
Company may, at its election, make a payment in lieu of notice. The payment would be calculated as the total of the director’s base 
salary plus the value of his benefits, in each case by reference to the period of the unexpired notice of termination. 
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts. They are appointed under letters of appointment which provide for a 
review every three years. The appointment is subject to termination if the non-executive ceases to be qualified to act as a director 
of the Company; if he resigns by written notice; or he is not re-elected under the Company’s Articles of Association. Dates of 
appointment are shown on pages 26 and 27.
Shareholding Guidelines
Shareholding guidelines, under which executive directors will be expected to retain, as shares, all of the after-tax profit on the 
gains made on the vesting of LTIP awards and the exercise of existing or future executive share options, until they have acquired 
a shareholding equal in value to their base salaries, were introduced in 2003. At 31 December 2009, Messrs Hill, Silver and 
Rapp owned shares equivalent to a multiple of 0.62 (2008, 0.46), 1.41 (2008, 1.06) and 0.28 (2008, 0.27) of their base salaries 
respectively. During the year, all three directors increased their shareholdings by taking up their rights under the Rights Issue 
announced on 28 October 2009 (see page 30).  Laird PLC    41   
Non-Executive Directors
Laird’s policy is to establish and maintain a body of non-executive directors with a breadth of international skills and experience that 
is relevant to Laird’s global businesses. In this context, it is the Board’s policy for the non-executive directors to be paid a level of fee 
that reflects market conditions and is sufficient to attract individuals with appropriate knowledge and experience.
Executive Directors’ Remuneration
Emoluments of executive directors showing breakdown between base pay, benefits-in-kind, performance related remuneration and 
cash in lieu of pension:
Salaries and fees Beneﬁ ts
Performance 
Related 
Remuneration
Cash in lieu 
of pension* Total
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
  
P J Hill 609 609 12 14 61 61 244 122 926 806
M L Rapp 449 354 17 14 45 65 135 106 646 539
J C Silver 336 328 13 12 34 34 134 131 517 505
* See page 42
In view of the difficult economic climate, executive directors’ salaries have not been increased since 1 July 2008 (Mr Hill: 1 July 2007). 
At their request, the executive directors’ salaries have not been reviewed subsequently. The Remuneration Committee also felt 
that a “freeze” in base salaries was appropriate in the current economic environment. Historically, the Remuneration Committee, 
in reviewing salaries, took account of the individuals’ and the Company’s performance, as well as an analysis prepared by Towers 
Watson of salaries and compensation of both a comparator group and a wider spread of companies. Mr Rapp’s base, performance 
and pension related compensation is denominated in US dollars and the figures above are translated into sterling at the average 
exchange rates for each year. Increases in base salary in 2009 for management level employees in Laird PLC and Laird Technologies 
were generally in the range of 3% to 5%. Greater increases were awarded to certain individuals as a result of promotions or 
significant increases in the scale or geographic scope of their responsibilities. 
Outside Appointments
The Board believes that there can be significant benefits, to both the Company and the individual, from executive directors accepting 
non-executive directorships of companies outside the Group. The Board takes into account the likely time commitment for such 
appointments prior to approving them. The directors are entitled to retain the fees for such appointments.
During the year, Mr Hill was a non-executive director of Meggitt plc and a non-executive board member of UK Trade & Investment 
until 31 March 2009. He was entitled to retain the fees of £45,000 and £2,400 respectively (2008, £45,000 and £4,800 respectively).
Mr Rapp was a non-executive director of Kionix, Inc until 16 November 2009 when it was sold and he was paid £14,349 fees (2008, 
£16,173). In addition, Mr Rapp had options in Kionix, Inc which were exercised as part of the sale agreement, he received £57,948 in 
cash with a further £6,439 held in escrow and payable, pursuant to the sale agreement, in two tranches 18 months and 36 months 
from date of sale. 
Mr Silver was a non-executive director of INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc during the year and he was entitled to retain fees of 
£21,000 (2008, £19,000).
Annual Performance Incentive Awards
The awards in 2009 for the executive directors were determined by the Remuneration Committee. For the UK executive directors, 
up to a maximum of 100% of base salary could be earned for exceptional performance and for Mr Rapp the maximum was 125%. 
The award criteria established for 2009 were based on targets in respect of profit before tax, cash generation, and the achievement 
of criteria designed to assess and drive performance against a number of key, measurable strategic objectives for the Company, 
including those relating to environmental, safety and social and corporate responsibility issues. The specific criteria used are 
not disclosed for reasons of commercial sensitivity, but include, inter alia, expansion of the customer base, market share gains, 
turnarounds in the profitability of certain businesses, and aggressive cost reduction targets.
Actual awards as a percentage of base salary in respect of 2009 for Messrs Hill, Rapp and Silver were 10% each. These took into 
account the underlying financial performance and the strategic development of both Laird PLC and of its operating division, Laird 
Technologies. No awards were made in respect of annual profits targets, with awards at the lower end of the scale being made in 
respect of certain cash generation metrics and the partial achievement of measurable strategic objectives. Actual awards in respect 
of 2008 were 10%, 17% and 10% respectively.
The levels of annual performance awards have thus been scaled back very significantly in 2008 and 2009 from those made in 2004 
to 2007 to reflect the difficult trading conditions due to the global economic recession.
Pensions
Mr Rapp, who is based in the USA, is a member of an employee managed defined contribution programme to which Laird 
Technologies, Inc. makes a 50% match of the member’s contributions up to 6% of gross earnings, subject to a cap. The amount 
paid in by Laird Technologies in 2009 was £4,400. In addition, Mr Rapp receives a taxable cash payment of 30% of base salary in 
lieu of any additional pension. 
Messrs Hill and Silver are members of a UK Group contributory defined benefits scheme. The main benefits are: on pension 
retirement at age sixty, a maximum pension of two thirds final salary (excluding bonuses and other benefits) dependent on service; 
on death in retirement, a dependant’s pension of 60% of the member’s pension; on death in service, a lump sum of four times 
salary and a dependant’s pension of 20% of salary or 60% of the member’s expected pension, if higher. Pensions in payment for 
Messrs Hill and Silver will increase by the lesser of the increase in the retail price index or 8.5% per annum compound. Transfer 
values provided on leaving service do not include any allowances for discretionary benefits. 42    Laird PLC
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2009
Mr Hill’s benefits in the defined benefits scheme are subject to an earnings cap. They are supplemented by an unfunded arrangement 
to maintain the same level of benefits as if the earnings cap did not apply. Since 1 July 2008, Mr Hill has received a taxable salary 
supplement of 40% of base salary in lieu of future accrual of the unfunded arrangement.
Following the introduction of the A Day legislation in April 2006, Mr Silver’s pension has ceased to accrue within the defined benefits 
scheme. In light of the Company’s previous pension commitment to Mr Silver, he now receives a taxable salary supplement of 40% 
of base salary in lieu of future pension accrual under the pension scheme. 
These payments in respect of Messrs Hill and Silver are expected to be cost neutral for the Company and reduce future pension 
risks for the Company. Payments in lieu of pension provision are excluded from the calculation of any bonus entitlements and share 
scheme awards. They are not included in the calculations below.
Age at 
31.12.09
Transfer 
value of 
accrued 
pension 
at 31.12.08
£000
Directors’ 
Contributions 
in 2009
£000
Service at 
31.12.09
(yrs)
Accrued 
deferred 
pension at 
31.12.09*
£000p.a.
Increase 
in deferred 
pension 
during 
the year
£000
Increase 
in accrued 
pension 
during the 
year (net of 
inﬂ ation)
£000
Transfer 
value of 
accrued 
pension at 
31.12.09
£000
Change 
in transfer 
value over 
the year**
£000
  
P J Hill 57 3,306 6 8 145 4 6 3,486 174
J C Silver 52 2,759 Nil 23 141 – 2 2,817 58
*  payable at Normal Retirement Date
** after deduction of directors’ contributions
Mr Silver ceased to accrue further pension benefits from 6 April 2006, however, his benefits accrued at that date remain linked to any 
growth in his pensionable pay. 
Share Plans
The share incentive schemes currently operated by the Company for the executive directors are the Long Term Incentive Plan and 
the Share Option Plans, which the Remuneration Committee believes are the most appropriate way in the current environment 
of providing the incentive to create substantial improvement in the Company’s performance in a way that aligns the interests of 
executives and shareholders. A Share Price Improvement Plan (“SPIP”) was introduced in 2008. The executive directors to whom 
awards were made under the SPIP have waived those awards in March 2010 and therefore no longer have any interests in shares 
under the SPIP . The Remuneration Committee, in the light of market conditions, has cancelled the SPIP .
a) Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
The LTIP involves the award of shares which only vest after the achievement of demanding performance targets measured over 
three years. Executives are eligible for annual awards of shares. The maximum annual award value under the LTIP is one times base 
salary. In setting the level of awards the Remuneration Committee takes into account options granted to executives under the 2003 
executive share option plans in the same financial year.
The extent to which awards granted under the LTIP in 2009 vest will be determined by reference to the Company’s total shareholder 
return relative to FTSE 250 companies (excluding investment trusts) and the following targets will apply:
Total Shareholder Return 
Performance Level
Amount of Award Vesting
%
    
Upper Quartile Full vesting
Median to Upper Quartile Pro rata between 30% and full vesting
Below Median Nil
These performance conditions will be measured only over a single three year period. There is no provision for retesting. In addition, 
no awards will vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Company’s 
underlying financial performance.
The LTIP may use either market purchased shares or new issue shares, provided that any new shares issued will count against the 
overall dilution limit. Awards under the plan in 2003 to 2009 inclusive took the form of nil cost options or conditional awards (in order 
to comply with US tax legislation), to be satisfied by shares from the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”) purchased in the 
market. Further details on the Trust are on page 45. 
The awards made in 2007 lapsed at the end of 2009 as the performance criterion for total shareholder return to 31 December 2009 
was not met. The awards made in 2006 also lapsed, at the end of 2008, as a result of the performance criteria not being met.
The awards made on 12 May 2009 were calculated with reference to a share price of 147.0p (as adjusted for the subsequent Rights 
Issue) being the higher of the closing mid-market price on 11 May and 12 May 2009. They will, apart from Mr Rapp’s awards, be 
exercisable between 12 May 2012 and 12 May 2014, to the extent to which the performance criteria are met. In accordance with 
US requirements, Mr Rapp’s award will vest automatically on 12 May 2012 if the performance criteria have been met. In accordance 
with the rules of the LTIP , outstanding awards may become exercisable before their normal vesting date in the event of a change of 
control of the Company. Laird PLC    43   
In recent years the policy has been to make awards at one times base salary. In 2009 the Remuneration Committee carefully 
considered the level of awards in the light of the Company’s business performance and the then current share price level. The 
awards made equated to 41.7% of salary for Mr Hill; 41.9% for Mr Silver and 45.3% for Mr Rapp, compared with one times salary 
in previous years. The Remuneration Committee considered that these awards, together with awards under the Share Option 
Schemes described below, should at this level still promote the interests of executives and shareholders in the delivery of above 
market growth in shareholder value in future years, while at the same time recognising the substantial fall in the Company’s share 
price from 2008 to 2009.
The amount charged to the income statement during the year in respect of the LTIPs granted to the executive directors was 
£551,000 (2008, £756,000). The fair value for accounting purposes was calculated as 55% of the face value of the awards made 
in 2009.
The directors’ interests in the LTIP are as follows:
1.1.09*
Awards 
in 2009*
Vested/ 
Exercised 
in 2009
Lapsed
in 2009* 31.12.09*
 
P J Hill 253,380 172,917 – 112,972 313,325
M L Rapp 119,889 138,333 – 51,875 206,347
J C Silver 132,570 95,681 – 58,792 169,459
*Figures are adjusted for the 1 for 2 Rights Issue announced on 28 October 2009.
The breakdown of outstanding awards are:
Date of Grant
Number of nil cost
options/conditional 
awards as at 
31 December
2009* Exercise period
  
P J Hill 17.3.08 140,408 17.3.11-17.3.13
12.5.09 172,917 12.5.12-12.5.14
 
313,325
 
M L Rapp 17.3.08 68,014 17.3.11**
12.5.09 138,333 12.5.12**
 
206,347
 
J C Silver 17.3.08 73,778 17.3.11-17.3.13
12.5.09 95,681 12.5.12-12.5.14
 
169,459
 
*  Figures are adjusted for the 1 for 2 Rights Issue announced on 28 October 2009.
** Mr Rapp’s conditional awards vest automatically, in order to comply with US tax legislation.
b)  Share Options
The executive directors have outstanding options under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme and the 2003 Executive Share 
Option Plan (No.1). The 1994 scheme was replaced by new share option schemes approved by shareholders at the 2003 Annual 
General Meeting. Since May 2001 the basis for calculation of the maximum grant of options to executive directors and other 
employees is the equivalent of shares with a market value at the time of grant of up to one times salary in any one year and up to 
two times salary in special circumstances, such as the recruitment or promotion to a key management position. 
1994 Share Option Scheme
The 1994 scheme granted options over new shares to be issued at the time of exercise (and also over existing shares). The exercise 
of options under the 1994 scheme is dependent upon the attainment of performance criteria set by the Remuneration Committee. 
The scheme permitted the grant of both approved and unapproved options. Options were granted at the closing middle market price 
on the last dealing day prior to grant and are exercisable after three years but not more than ten years from the date of grant.
The performance criteria set by the Remuneration Committee for grants made in 2002, the last year in which options were granted 
under this Scheme, is that the increase in earnings per share must not be less than the increase in the rate of United Kingdom 
Retail Price Inflation plus an average of 3% per annum over a three year period. In 2006 the Committee reviewed the performance 
conditions and agreed that the earnings per share target had been met and that there had been a significant and sustained 
improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company.
 1.1.09*
Lapsed
in 2009 31.12.09*
  
P J Hill 272,467 – 272,467
M L Rapp –– –
J C Silver 78,595 29,694 48,901
* Figures are adjusted for the 1 for 2 Rights Issue announced on 28 October 2009. 44    Laird PLC
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2009
The 2003 Executive Share Option Plans
There are two plans which were approved by shareholders in 2003. One plan permits the grant of options approved by Her Majesty’s 
Revenue and Customs to be made to individuals who may be eligible for capital gains tax relief on the exercise of options; otherwise 
both plans are identical in all material respects. The value of shares under options granted to an executive in any financial year are 
limited, to one times base salary, unless there are exceptional circumstances (e.g. a high level recruitment), in which case the limit is 
twice base salary. 
When granting options, the Remuneration Committee takes into account both the level of awards made to executives under the LTIP 
and the prevailing share price.
The performance criteria used from 2003 to 2008 (inclusive) was to measure the increase in earnings per share against the rate of 
UK retail price inflation plus a specified percentage per annum over a fixed three year period, as shown in the table below. 
Tier of Option Grant
Applicable Performance Target: 
Average Annual growth in earnings per share in excess of inflation
Options granted 2003 to 2007 Options granted in 2008
Up to 0.5 x salary
0.5 x salary – 1 x salary 
 and above
UK RPI + 3% per annum 
UK RPI + 3% to 5% per annum applied 
pro rata to the multiple of salary
UK RPI + 5% per annum 
UK RPI + 5% to 7.5% per annum applied 
pro rata to the multiple of salary
The Committee considered that a consistent and real rate of growth in earnings per share is normally an appropriate performance 
target as it is a good guide to the underlying financial performance of Laird PLC. However, due to the uncertain economic 
circumstances in 2009, the Committee carefully considered the basis for the EPS targets and, after consultation with major 
Shareholders, set specific EPS performance targets:
Level of vesting in 2012 Applicable Performance Target:
2011 Earnings per share (EPS)
Threshold 50% vesting 18.7 pence (adjusted for the Rights Issue)
Full vesting 21.3 pence (adjusted for the Rights Issue)
With a pro-rata vesting on a straight line basis where EPS is between 18.7 pence and 21.3 pence. The EPS figures have been 
adjusted, from those set at the time of the grant, for the Rights Issue.
Based on the reported EPS for 2009, of 9.6 pence, to achieve the 2011 threshold requires EPS growth between 2009 and 2011 of 
39.6% per annum and, for full vesting, EPS growth of 49.0% per annum, between 2009 and 2011.
The performance conditions under the plan are based on the Company’s earnings per share growth adjusted to exclude items which 
do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance. 
The performance conditions are measured at the end of a three year period. To the extent that the performance conditions have not 
been met after three years, the options will lapse. There is no provision for retesting.
The rules of the 2003 plan permit the waiver of performance criteria in certain limited circumstances, such as a change of control, 
death or retirement. In accordance with the rules of the plan, outstanding options may become exercisable before their normal 
exercise date in the event of a change of control of the Company.
In order to allow for the grant of options to employees who are not executive directors, there is an overall dilution limit of 10% of the 
ordinary share capital in issue from time to time for allocations in respect of newly issued shares over a ten year period under these 
plans and all other share schemes operated by the Company.
In considering whether share options granted in 2006 should vest in 2009, the Remuneration Committee considered not just whether 
the performance criteria described above had been met, but also the absolute level of growth in underlying earnings per share 
from continuing operations over the three year period. This showed that average annual growth in underlying continuing earnings 
per share over the three year period was approximately 17.9%, which the Remuneration Committee considered did represent a 
sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of Laird.
In recent years the policy has been to make awards at one times base salary. In 2009 the Remuneration Committee carefully considered 
the level of awards in the light of the Company’s business performance and the then current share price level. The awards equated to 
83.5% of salary for Mr Hill; 41.9% for Mr Silver and 45.3% for Mr Rapp, compared with awards at one times salary in previous years. 
The Remuneration Committee considered that these awards, together with awards under the LTIP described above, should at this 
level still promote the interests of executives and shareholders in the delivery of above market growth in shareholder value in future 
years, while at the same time recognising the substantial fall in the Company’s share price from 2008 to 2009.
The amount charged to the income statement in respect of the share options granted to the executive directors was £68,000 (2008, 
£89,000). The fair value for accounting purposes was calculated at 30.7 per cent of the face value of grants made in 2009. Laird PLC    45   
The directors’ interests in options under the 2003 executive share option (No. 1) plan in respect of new shares to be issued are 
shown in the table below:
1.1.09*
Granted
in 2009*
Exercised/
Lapsed
in 2009 31.12.09*
  
P J Hill 929,240 345,833 – 1,275,073
M L Rapp 292,692 276,667 – 569,359
J C Silver 489,341 191,361 – 680,702
*Figures are adjusted for the 1 for 2 Rights Issue announced on 28 October 2009.
The performance criteria are set out on page 44.
The breakdown of the outstanding options is shown in the table below:
Number of shares 
under option as at 
31 December 2009*
Exercise 
price (p) Exercise period
  
P J Hill
1994 Executive Scheme 272,467 139.66 10.12.05-10.12.12
2003 Executive (No. 1) Plan 177,266 169.16 02.06.06-02.06.13
169,686 235.08 12.03.07-12.03.14
188,270 280.19 18.03.08-18.03.15
140,638 397.08 25.04.09-25.04.16
112,972 509.64 15.05.10-15.05.17
140,408 433.73 17.03.11-17.03.18
345,833 147.04 12.05.12-12.05.19
 
1,547,540
 
M L Rapp
2003 Executive (No. 1) Plan 99,025 280.19 18.03.08-18.03.15
73,778 397.08 25.04.09-25.04.16
51,875 509.64 15.05.10-15.05.17
68,014 433.73 17.03.11-17.03.18
276,667 147.04 12.05.12-12.05.19
 
569,359
 
J C Silver
1994 Executive Scheme 48,901 254.60 16.11.03-16.11.10
2003 Executive (No. 1) Plan 71,251 169.16 02.06.06-02.06.13
112,718 235.08 12.03.07-12.03.14
99,025 280.19 18.03.08-18.03.15
73,778 397.08 25.04.09-25.04.16
58,791 509.64 15.05.10-15.05.17
73,778 433.73 17.03.11-17.03.18
 191,361 147.04 12.05.12-12.05.19
 
729,603
 
* Figures are adjusted for the 1 for 2 Rights Issue announced on 28 October 2009.
There have been no changes in these interests since the year end. The middle market share price at 31 December 2009 was 126p. 
During the year the share price was in the range 47.71p to 195.24p (adjusted for the Rights Issue).
c) Share Price Improvement Plan 
The Laird PLC Share Price Improvement Plan (“SPIP”) was designed to be a one-off arrangement to complement the existing 
LTIP and Executive Share Option Schemes. The awards made under the SPIP took the form of conditional awards of free shares 
in the Company, with vesting, subject to an underpinning performance condition, being dependent on the Company’s share price 
increasing to between £10 and £15 between May 2011 and May 2013.
On 9 May 2008, Mr Hill was granted a conditional award of 384,259 shares and Messrs Rapp and Silver were granted conditional 
awards of 192,129 shares each in the Company (in each case adjusted for the Rights Issue announced on 28 October 2009). The 
amount charged to the income statement in respect of those awards was £381,000. 
The executive directors to whom awards were made under the SPIP have waived those awards in March 2010 and therefore no 
longer have any interests in shares under the SPIP . The Remuneration Committee, in the light of market conditions, has cancelled 
the SPIP .
The Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”)
The Trust purchases and holds shares in Laird PLC to meet the requirements of share option awards and grants under the LTIP . 
The Trust, which is financed by a loan of £0.2m from the Company, currently holds 119,457 ordinary shares which relate to the LTIP . 
Currently there are no outstanding share options, other than those granted under the LTIP , to be satisfied by the Trust. Whilst shares are 
held within the Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are exercisable by the trustee, in accordance with its fiduciary duties. 46    Laird PLC
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
for the year to 31 December 2009
Independent Non-executive Directors
Chairman
Under an arrangement between the Company and Imperialise Limited, Mr Keen is retained to act as Chairman of the Company. 
Mr Keen also acts as Chairman of the trustees of a Laird pension scheme for which he receives no additional remuneration. Mr Keen’s 
fees for his services, for which he must account to Imperialise Limited, are £175,000 per annum. Imperialise is responsible for Mr 
Keen’s National Insurance and is paid a sum equivalent to the National Insurance on those fees of £22,400, for which it accounts 
to Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (“HMRC”) whereas National Insurance in respect of the other non-executive directors is 
paid directly to HMRC. NI payments are not included in the table below. Mr Keen’s initial period of appointment as Chairman was 
for three years commencing 5 June 2000. His term of appointment, was extended by the Board for three further three year periods 
commencing 5 June 2003, 5 June 2006 and 5 June 2009. The appointment, which is subject to the rotation provisions of the 
Articles of Association, may be terminated by either party giving not less than six months notice.
Non-executive Directors
The non-executive directors’ annual fee is £36,000 per annum. A J Reading’s and A M Robb’s emoluments include fees at the rate of 
£7,000 per annum to reflect their chairmanship of Board Committees. Dr Spivey who is based in North America, received additional 
remuneration of £15,000 during the year to take account of additional time spent on the Company’s business. Sir Christopher Hum’s 
services as a non-executive director are supplied by Qilin Consulting Limited. The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not 
receive any other benefits.
Emoluments of the Chairman and non-executive directors:
2009
£000
2008
£000
  
N J Keen, Chairman 175 175
Professor M J Kelly 36 36
Sir Christopher Hum 36 36
A J Reading 43 43
A M Robb 43 43
Dr W R Spivey 51 51
Performance Graph
The graph below shows for the five years ended 31 December 2009, the total shareholder return on a holding of the Company’s 
ordinary shares compared with hypothetical holdings of shares made up of shares of the same kind and number as those by 
reference to which the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) is calculated, and also the Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector 
of the FTSE. The FTSE 250 and the Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector have been shown because both are relevant to 
Laird. Total shareholder return has been calculated by reference to the relevant share price for each constituent company assuming 
dividends are reinvested.
Total shareholder return for the five years ended 31 December 2009
0
100
200
300
400
Dec – 04
Jun– 05
Dec – 05
Jun– 06
Dec – 06
Jun– 07
Dec – 07
Jun– 08
Dec – 08
Jun– 09
Dec – 09
LAIRD PLC FTSE MID 250 REBASED (EXC. INVESTMENT TRUSTS) FTSE ELECTRONIC AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT SECTOR
p
In accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations, the eleven tables setting out directors’ remuneration, pensions, 
LTIP awards and share options contained within the report have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP; the statements of policy and 
the total shareholder return graph have not been audited.
This report was adopted by the Remuneration Committee at a meeting on 4 March 2010 and has been approved subsequently by 
Laird PLC’s Board for submission to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 April 2010.
By Order of the Board
A J Reading
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
9 March 2010 Laird PLC    47   
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
in relation to the Group ﬁ nancial statements
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditor’s statement of their responsibilities on page 48, is 
made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and the Auditor in relation to the 
financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom 
law, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present a true and fair view of the financial 
position of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period. In preparing those financial 
statements on a going concern basis, the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
 state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the 
financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. They are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge:
(i)   the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards,  give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and result of the Group taken as a whole; and
(ii)   the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board
Peter Hill Jonathan Silver
Chief Executive Finance Director
9 March 2010 48    Laird PLC
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the Members of Laird PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Group 
income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group statement 
of financial position, the Group cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 35. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 47, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Group financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
Group financial statements.
Opinion on Group financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its loss for the year then ended;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the Group financial statements; and
 the information given in the Corporate governance report set out on pages 33 to 35 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the Group 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 a Corporate governance report has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 the directors’ statement, set out on page 31, in relation to going concern; and
 the part of the Corporate governance report on pages 33 to 35 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009 and 
on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
Nick Gomer (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
London
9 March 2010
Note:
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Laird PLC website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on 
the website. Laird PLC    49   
Group income statement
for the year to 31 December 2009
note 2009 2008
£m £m
   
Continuing operations
4 Revenue 528.8 635.3
   
Operating profit before amortisation of acquired
intangible assets and exceptional items 33.6 68.5
17 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (13.3)  (11.4)  
7 Exceptional items (10.2)  (20.3)  
   
 6 Operating profit    10.1 36.8
10 Finance revenue 0.6 0.5
10 Finance costs (7.8)  (9.6)  
10 Financial instruments – fair value adjustments 1.6 (2.4)  
35 Other net finance revenue – pension 0.1 1.2
   
Profit before tax from continuing operations 4.6 26.5
11 Taxation (6.2)  (12.2)  
   
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations (1.6)  14.3
Discontinued operations
12 Loss for the year from discontinued operations (1.9)  –
   
(Loss)/profit for the year – attributable to equity shareholders (3.5)  14.3
   
 Earnings per share 
13 Basic from continuing operations (0.8)  7.0p  
13 Diluted from continuing operations (0.8)  7.0p  
13 Basic on (loss)/profit for the year (1.7)  7.0p  
13 Diluted on (loss)/profit for the year (1.7)  7.0p  
14 Underlying profit before tax* 
Continuing 26.5 60.6
Underlying basic earnings per share* 
Basic from continuing operations 9.6p  23.8p  
Diluted from continuing operations 9.6p  23.7p  
*before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, exceptional items, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss 
on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of ﬁ nancial instruments and acquisition transaction costs
p
p
p
p 50    Laird PLC
Group statement of comprehensive income
for the year to 31 December 2009
note 2009 2008
£m £m
   
(Loss)/profit for the year (3.5)  14.3
 
35 Net actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations (2.4)  (9.7)  
11 Deferred tax on actuarial gains/losses – 1.7
Exchange differences on retranslation of overseas net investments (75.9)  196.6
Exchange differences on net investment hedges 12.7 (47.4)  
    
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (65.6)  141.2
    
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year 
– attributable to equity shareholders (69.1)  155.5
   
Group statement of changes in equity
for the year to 31 December 2009
note Ordinary
share Share Merger Retained Translation Treasury
capital premium reserve earnings reserve shares Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
 
for the year to 31 December 2008
At 1 January 2008 49.8 268.9 – 128.4 3.3 (1.9)  448.5
Profit for the year – – – 14.3 – – 14.3
Other comprehensive (loss)/income – – – (8.0)  149.2 – 141.2
 
Total comprehensive income – – – 6.3 149.2 – 155.5
Exercise of share options 0.1 0.8 – – – – 0.9
30 Share based payments – – – 1.8 – – 1.8
 11 Deferred tax on share based payments – – – (0.7)  – – (0.7)  
 31 Treasury shares – – – – – 0.4 0.4
Vesting of LTIPs – – – (1.3)  – 1.3 –
 15 Dividends paid – – – (21.1)  – – (21.1)  
 
At 31 December 2008 49.9 269.7 – 113.4 152.5 (0.2)  585.3
 
for the year to 31 December 2009
At 1 January 2009 49.9 269.7 – 113.4 152.5 (0.2)  585.3
Loss for the year – – – (3.5)  – – (3.5)  
Other comprehensive loss – – – (2.4)  (63.2)  – (65.6)  
 
Total comprehensive loss – – – (5.9)  (63.2)  – (69.1)  
 Rights Issue of share capital 25.0 – 63.8 – – – 88.8
Rights Issue expenses – – (5.8)  – – – (5.8)  
 31 Transfer between reserves – – (58.0)  58.0 – – –
 30 Share based payments – – – 1.6 – – 1.6
 31 Treasury shares – – – – – (0.1)  (0.1)  
Vesting of LTIPs – – – (0.1)  – 0.1 –
 15 Dividends paid – – – (14.0)  – – (14.0)  
 15 Dividends payable – – – (7.1)  – – (7.1)  
 
At 31 December 2009 74.9 269.7 – 145.9 89.3 (0.2)  579.6
  Laird PLC    51   
Group statement of ﬁ nancial position
as at 31 December 2009
note 2009 2008
£m £m
   
Assets
Non-current assets
16 Property, plant and equipment 108.6 123.7
17 Intangible assets 542.4 610.0
25 Deferred tax assets 3.6 2.7
35 Retirement benefit assets 2.3 4.0
Other non-current assets 1.8 1.0
   
658.7 741.4
   
Current assets
28 Derivative financial instruments – 0.5
19 Inventories 49.6 80.2
20 Trade and other receivables 121.0 129.0
Income tax receivable 1.3 2.9
21 Cash 53.7 46.9
   
225.6 259.5
   
Liabilities
Current liabilities
22 Borrowings (8.5)  (7.6)  
28 Derivative financial instruments (0.8)  (2.9)  
24 Trade and other payables (108.8)  (115.1)  
Current tax liabilities (3.6)  (6.8)  
27 Provisions (5.0)  (7.0)  
   
(126.7)  (139.4)  
   
Net current assets 98.9 120.1
   
Non-current liabilities
22 Borrowings (90.6)  (178.8)  
Income tax payable (26.5)  (28.9)  
25 Deferred tax liabilities (51.0)  (57.8)  
35 Retirement benefit obligations (4.8)  (3.9)  
26 Other non-current liabilities (0.5)  (2.8)  
27 Provisions (4.6)  (4.0)  
   
(178.0)  (276.2)  
   
Net assets 579.6 585.3
   
Capital and reserves
29 Equity share capital 74.9 49.9
Share premium 269.7 269.7
Retained earnings 145.9 113.4
31 Translation reserve 89.3 152.5
31 Treasury shares (0.2)  (0.2)  
   
Total shareholders’ equity 579.6 585.3
    52    Laird PLC
Group cash ﬂ ow statement
for the year to 31 December 2009
note 2009 2008
£m £m
   
32 Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 65.3 73.7
Tax paid (9.8)  (17.2)  
   
Net cash flows from operating activities 55.5 56.5
   
Cash flow from investing activities
Interest received 0.6 0.5
32 Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired) (1.8)  (17.7)  
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (17.1)  (30.0)  
Purchase of intangible assets (internally developed) (11.1)  (7.3)  
32 (Outflow)/inflow from sale of businesses (2.6)  11.5
Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 0.7 1.3
   
Net cash flows from investing activities (31.3)  (41.7)  
    
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest and other finance costs paid (8.3)  (10.2)  
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 83.0 0.9
Movement in treasury shares (0.1)  0.4
(Decrease)/increase in borrowings (73.7)  16.8
Dividends paid to shareholders (14.0)  (21.1)  
   
Net cash flows from financing activities (13.1)  (13.2)  
   
Effects of movements in foreign exchange rates (4.3)  12.9
   
Increase in cash and cash equivalents for the year 6.8 14.5
32 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 46.9 32.4
     
32 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 53.7 46.9
    Laird PLC    53   
note
 1 Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors 
on 9 March 2010 and the statement of financial position was signed on the Board’s behalf by P J Hill and J C Silver. 
Laird PLC is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and its ordinary shares are traded 
on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted for use in the European Union (IFRS) and the principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in 
note 2. 
 2 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for derivative financial 
instruments, that have been measured at fair value, and accounting for pensions. The consolidated financial statements 
are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand unless otherwise 
indicated. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the 
directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of 
contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense during the reporting periods. 
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the directors’ best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, 
actual results may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of goodwill and the 
measurement of defined benefit pension obligations and defined benefit assets. The Group determines whether goodwill 
is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the 
intangible assets are allocated. This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate (see 
note 17). Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, 
as well as mortality rates, the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate (see note 35). 
During the year, the Group adopted IAS 1 Revised – Presentation of Financial Statements. The revised standard separates 
owner and non-owner changes in equity. The statement of changes in equity includes only details of transactions with 
owners, with non-owner changes in equity presented in a reconciliation of each component in equity. In addition, the 
standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income: it presents all items of recognised income and expense, 
either in one single statement, or in two linked statements. The Group has elected to present two statements.
The accounting policies set out below have been used to prepare the financial information.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated Group comprises Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings (“the Group”). The financial statements of 
the subsidiaries are prepared as of the same reporting date as the parent, using consistent accounting policies where 
appropriate. Intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date on 
which the Group ceases to control them.
All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of a business combination is measured 
as the aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of any assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity 
instruments issued by the Group, plus any costs directly attributable to the combination. The identifiable assets and 
liabilities of the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the business 
combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, including those of an intangible and 
tangible nature and liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Currency translation
The financial statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries are prepared using its functional currency. The functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates. The presentation currency of the 
Group is sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency 
monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
In the Group accounts the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted 
average rates of exchange for the period. Net investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rates 
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising from retranslating opening net investments and 
the retained profits for the period of overseas subsidiaries, less exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings that 
provide a hedge against overseas investments, are shown as movements in equity. All other exchange differences are dealt 
with in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. On 
disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders’ equity that relate to the disposed 
operation are transferred to the income statement.
 
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2009 54    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received and excludes intra-group sales and value-added taxes and 
represents net invoice value.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party, the 
amount of revenue can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction 
will flow to the Group.
Retirement benefit obligations
Under IAS 19 the assets and liabilities of defined benefit pension plans are recognised at fair value in the statement of 
financial position and the operating and financing costs of defined benefit pension plans are recognised in the income 
statement as operating costs and interest costs respectively. Variations from expected costs, arising from the experience of 
the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected 
unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to 
the current and prior periods (to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. 
The assets of defined benefit plans are recognised at fair value in the statement of financial position and the liabilities are 
recognised at present value using a high quality corporate bond rate. 
The Group applies IFRIC 14, which allows the Group to recognise a surplus in schemes where an unconditional right to a 
refund exists. 
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they become 
payable.
Share based payments
The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), Share Price Improvement Plan (SPIP) and Restricted Share Plan (RSP) 
shares awarded is estimated at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking into account the terms 
and conditions upon which the LTIP , SPIP and RSP shares were awarded including market based performance conditions. 
The fair value of share options granted is estimated at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. Non-market company performance and 
service conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
No expense is recognised for grants that do not vest and charges previously made are reversed except that an expense is 
recognised for grants where vesting is conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as vesting irrespective of 
whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided all the other performance vesting conditions are satisfied. 
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as 
vesting as described above. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the 
income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not 
been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share 
based payment, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of 
cancellation or settlement, and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately. 
Intangible assets
Acquired intangible assets, including patents, trade secrets, brand names and customer relationships, are recognised 
separately from goodwill and capitalised at fair value and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives. Amortisation 
is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis. The estimated useful life of an intangible asset ranges between 
3 and 20 years depending on its nature.
Research and development
Research and development expenditure is expensed as it is incurred, except for certain development costs, which are 
capitalised as intangible assets when it is probable that the development project will be commercially viable, and certain 
criteria, including commercial and technological feasibility have been met. Intangible assets arising in this manner are 
amortised over their useful economic lives, from the product launch date, which is typically less than three years. Intangible 
assets relating to products in the development phase, both internally generated and externally acquired, are subject to an 
impairment review at each balance sheet date, or earlier should indication of impairment arise. Any impairment losses are 
written off immediately to the income statement. Laird PLC    55   
note
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired. Goodwill arises where the fair value of 
the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications 
that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to 
being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill set off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated 
and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation 
authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
 where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that 
is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction effects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
 in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
 deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise 
income tax is recognised in the income statement or statement of comprehensive income.
Dividends
Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a 
legal liability of the Company.
Interest
Interest is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost 
comprises the purchase price and directly attributable costs, for example, initial delivery and handling costs and installation 
and assembly costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. For all other property, plant, and equipment depreciation is 
calculated on a straight line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years or less
Leasehold buildings 50 years or the lease term if less
Computer equipment 5 years or less
Motor vehicles 4 years
Other plant and machinery 13 years or less
A proportion of one year’s depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such 
indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s 
recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs 
to sell and its value in use. This is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that 
are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are 
largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to 
which the asset belongs is determined. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset 
is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income 
statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset. 56    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
Leases
Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated 
as a finance lease. All other leases are treated as operating leases, and the related charges are expensed to the income 
statement evenly over the lease term.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at fair value. Each asset is 
depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the asset. The obligations relating to finance leases, net 
of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate under current, or non-current, trade and other 
payables. The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a 
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Segment reporting
During the year, the Group adopted IFRS 8, which replaces IAS 14. The Group concluded that the operating segments in 
accordance with IFRS 8 are the same business segments previously reported under IAS 14. Segments are identified on 
the basis of management information which is presented to the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker to assess the 
performance of each segment.
Exceptional items
These items are presented within the relevant income statement category. The separate reporting of exceptional items helps 
provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. Events which may give rise to the classification 
of items as exceptional include the restructuring of businesses, the integration of new businesses, gains or losses on the 
disposal of businesses, and asset impairments.
Financial assets 
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Trade and other receivables are recognised on the 
trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset and are measured at amortised cost less 
any provision for impairment. A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability 
of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts 
due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance 
account. Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable. Trade and other receivables are 
discounted when the time value of money is considered material. 
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Gains and 
losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired. 
Derivative financial assets are classified as held for trading, unless they are designated as hedging instruments. These assets 
are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses in value being recognised in the income statement.
A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised 
where:
 the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or
 the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less, in the case of a liability not at fair value through profit or loss, 
directly attributable transaction costs. Measurement after initial recognition is at amortised cost, with the changes in the 
carrying amount being taken through the income statement.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in 
finance income and finance expense.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The Group may use derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge 
its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially 
recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair 
value. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
taken to the income statement. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair 
value is negative. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with 
similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar 
instruments. Laird PLC    57   
note
 2 Accounting policies (continued)
For those contracts designated as hedges the hedging relationship is documented at its inception. This documentation 
identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness 
will be measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to be 
effective and periodically throughout their duration to assess continuing effectiveness.
Cash flow hedges
These are used to hedge potential changes in cash flows of highly probable forecast transactions. For cash flow hedges, 
the effective portion of the fair value movement on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective 
portion is recognised in profit or loss. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged 
transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs. Where the hedged item is the cost of a 
non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial 
asset or liability.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or 
loss. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation 
as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are 
transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above. If the related 
transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to profit or loss.
Net investment hedges
These are used to hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign operations. 
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in 
shareholders’ equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the income statement. 
Treasury shares
The Laird PLC shares held in the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”) are classified in shareholders’ equity as 
“treasury shares” and are recognised at cost. Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, 
with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is 
recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash in the statement of financial position comprises cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity in three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as 
defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. For finished goods and work in progress, cost includes 
directly attributable costs and certain overhead expenses (principally administration costs) are excluded. Net realisable value 
is determined as estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling 
and distribution.
Provisions
These comprise liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are 
discounted where the time value of money is material.
New Standards and Interpretations not applied
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been 
applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective for the financial period:
International Accounting Financial Reporting Standards (IAS/IFRS) Effective date
IFRS 3 Business Combinations (revised January 2008) 1 July 2009
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (revised January 2008)  1 July 2009
IAS 39 Amendment – Eligible Hedged Items 1 July 2009
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers 1 July 2009
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the 
Group’s financial statements in the period of initial application. 58    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 3 Segmental analysis 
During the year, the Group adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments, which replaces IAS 14. Under IFRS 8, segments are 
identified on the basis of management information which is reviewed by the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker.
As a result of adopting IFRS 8, the directors are of the opinion that the primary business segments as reported under IAS 14 
should remain unchanged.
The Group will continue to report the following segments:
Performance Materials – designs and supplies a range of EMI shielding materials, thermal management solutions and signal 
integrity products to a wide variety of electronic devices. 
Handset Products – supplies customised, high performance products to mobile phone handset and handheld device 
manufacturers.
Wireless Systems – designs and supplies a range of high specification wireless antennae, and machine-to-machine (“M2M”) 
wireless modules for a number of markets including infrastructure and automotive markets.
Performance
Materials
Handset
Products
Wireless
Systems Total
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
         
Continuing operations
Revenue from customers 181.9 190.9 262.0 348.7 84.9 95.7 528.8 635.3
         
Segment profit before: 19.0 23.1 11.7 37.4 2.9 8.0 33.6 68.5
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (3.5 ) (3.0) (4.0) (3.6) (5.8) (4.8) (13.3) (11.4)
Exceptional items (2.6) (13.8) (4.3) (3.3) (3.3) (3.2) (10.2) (20.3)
         
Operating profit/(loss) 12.9 6.3 3.4 30.5 (6.2) – 10.1 36.8
       
Finance revenue 0.6 0.5
Finance costs (7.8) (9.6)
Financial instruments – fair value  
adjustments 1.6 (2.4)
Other net finance revenue – pension 0.1 1.2
         
Profit before tax 4.6 26.5
Taxation (6.2) (12.2)
         
(Loss)/profit for the year (1.6) 14.3
         
Segment assets 368.9 419.9 297.5 334.0 201.1 230.2 867.5 984.1
Unallocated assets – – – – – – 16.8 16.8
         
Total assets 368.9 419.9 297.5 334.0 201.1 230.2 884.3 1,000.9
         
Segment liabilities 27.3 44.0 52.1 51.3 18.9 16.2 98.3 111.5
Unallocated liabilities
– borrowings – – – – – – 99.1 186.4
– other (see below) – – – – – – 107.3 117.7
         
Total liabilities 27.3 44.0 52.1 51.3 18.9 16.2 304.7 415.6
         
Other segment items
Capital additions 5.9 15.2 18.1 18.1 5.1 3.8 29.1 37.1
Acquisition of businesses – – – – – 13.0 – 13.0
         
Total additions 5.9 15.2 18.1 18.1 5.1 16.8 29.1 50.1
         
Depreciation 7.2 4.9 7.8 5.9 1.7 1.6 16.7 12.4
         
Amortisation of intangible assets 4.1 3.6 7.2 5.3 8.2 5.6 19.5 14.5
         
The Group did not have any inter-segment revenue in 2009 and 2008.
Revenue from one customer of the Performance Materials division and Handset Products division represents approximately 
£190m (2008, £250m) of the Group’s total revenues.
Unallocated liabilities – other in the above table include liabilities for current tax, deferred tax, pensions, dividends, provisions 
and other creditors. Laird PLC    59   
note
 3 Segmental analysis (continued)
Geographic information
The Group managed its business segments on a global basis and the parent company is resident in the UK. The Group’s 
operations are based in the following territories:
North America, Europe, Asia and Rest of World.
The revenue analysis in the table below is based on the location of the customer. The analysis of non-current assets is based 
on the location of the assets and for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and other 
non-current assets.
Revenue Non-current assets
 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m
     
Continuing operations
North America 112.3 129.0 455.6 521.5
Europe 72.2 101.4 98.6 107.8
Asia 335.4 387.8 98.6 105.4
Rest of World 8.9 17.1 – –
     
528.8 635.3 652.8 734.7
     
Revenue from UK customers (the Group’s country of domicile) was £6.3m (2008, £7.5m). 
 4 Revenue
Revenue disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Sale of goods 528.8 635.3
Finance revenue 0.6 0.5
   
Total revenue 529.4 635.8
   
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods and services (2008, £nil).
 5 Exchange rates 
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted average rates of exchange for 
the year. The principal rates used were as follows:
 Average Closing
2009 2008 2009 2008
     
Czech Koruna 29.75 31.47 29.72 27.77
Euros 1.12 1.26 1.13 1.03
Japanese Yen 146.50 192.62 150.34 130.33
Renminbi (RMB) 10.71 12.91 11.03 9.81
Swedish Krona 11.94 12.09 11.53 11.37
US dollars 1.57 1.86 1.62 1.44
      60    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 6 Operating profit before finance costs and tax 
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Revenue 528.8 635.3
Cost of sales (367.4)  (437.5)  
   
Gross proﬁ t 161.4 197.8
Selling, administration and other expenses (113.4)  (126.2)  
Research and development expenditure (net) (37.9)  (34.8)  
   
Operating proﬁ t before ﬁ nance costs and tax 10.1 36.8
   
Note:
(a)   Included in selling, administration and other expenses are £10.2m (2008, £20.3m) of exceptional items as described in 
note 7 to the financial statements and £13.3m (2008, £11.4m) of amortisation relating to acquired intangible assets.
(b)  Included in research and development expenditure is £6.2m (2008, £3.1m) of amortisation in respect of capitalised 
development.
2009 2008
Continuing Continuing
operations operations
£m £m
   
Operating proﬁ t for the year is stated after charging the following items:
Staff costs 98.0 101.6
Exceptional items 
Property, plant and equipment write downs 3.4 1.8
Capitalised development costs write downs 0.6 –
Inventory write downs 1.2 1.6
Other restructuring 5.0 16.9
Research and development expenditure
Incurred 42.8 39.0
Capitalised (11.1)  (7.3)  
Depreciation and amortisation
Property, plant and equipment 16.7 12.4
Intangible assets 18.9 14.5
Operating lease rentals
Hire of plant and machinery 0.7 0.8
Other 6.4 8.0
Auditor’s remuneration *
Audit fees
– Group accounts 0.3 0.2
– Local statutory audits 0.6 0.8
Tax fees
– Compliance services 0.9 0.8
– Planning services 0.8 0.9
Transaction support services – 0.4
Other services 0.1 0.1
* Total fees paid to the auditor were £3.7m (2008, £3.2m), including £0.7m related to discontinued operations of the Group and £0.3m 
charged to equity in respect of costs associated with the Rights Issue. Laird PLC    61   
note
 7  Exceptional items
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Continuing operations:
Performance Materials
 Property, plant and equipment write downs (2.2)  (1.5)  
 Inventory write downs (0.4)  (1.4)  
 Other restructuring costs – (10.9)  
   
(2.6)  (13.8)  
   
Handset Products
Property, plant and equipment write downs (1.2)  (0.3)  
Inventory write downs (0.2)  (0.1)  
Other restructuring costs (2.9)  (2.9)  
   
(4.3)  (3.3)  
   
Wireless Systems
Capitalised development costs write downs (0.6)  –
Inventory write downs (0.6)  (0.1)  
Other restructuring costs (2.1)  (3.1)  
   
(3.3)  (3.2)  
   
(10.2)  (20.3)  
   
Note:
(a) The total cash outlay for exceptional costs in 2009 was £12.0m (2008, £9.7m).
(b) The tax effect on exceptional items in 2009 is a £1.8m tax credit (2008, £2.2m tax credit).
(c) Other restructuring costs include redundancy and site closure costs.
 8  Directors’ emoluments
2009 2008
 £m £m
   
Emoluments 
Fees 0.2 0.2
Salaries and beneﬁ ts 1.6 1.5
Pension contributions 0.5 0.4
Performance incentive awards 
Bonuses 0.1 0.2
Share based payments 1.0 0.9
   
3.4 3.2
   
There were no exercises of share options by directors during 2009. 62    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 9  Employees
2009 2008
 Number Number
   
Average number of Group employees
Performance Materials 3,649 4,959
Handset Products 7,092 8,416
Wireless Systems 1,024 1,343
   
Continuing operations 11,765 14,718
Discontinued operations – –
   
11,765 14,718
   
The total number of Group employees at 31 December 2009 was 12,290 (2008, 11,189).
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Employee costs
  Wages and salaries 82.4 86.4
  Social security costs 12.1 11.4
  Other pension costs 1.6 2.0
  Share based payments 1.6 1.8
   
97.7 101.6
   
Compensation of key management personnel (excluding directors, for details of directors see note 8).
Key management personnel comprise members of the management team as defined by IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”. 
 2009 2008
 £m £m
   
Short term employee benefits 2.0 2.6
Post employment benefits 0.2 0.2
Termination benefits – – 
Share based payments 0.2 0.5
   
2.4 3.3
   
 10 Finance revenues and costs
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Finance revenue
  Interest income 0.6 0.5
   
Finance costs
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (1.3) (2.7)  
Interest payable on other loans (5.6) (6.0)  
Other finance charges (0.9) (0.9)  
   
(7.8) (9.6)  
   
Financial instruments – fair value adjustments 1.6 (2.4)  
    Laird PLC    63   
note
 11   Taxation
2009 2008
£m £m
   
(a) Analysis of the tax charge/(credit) for the year
 Current tax
   Current income tax charge 10.3 17.4 
   Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous year (2.0)  (4.7)  
   
 Total current tax charge/(credit) 8.3 12.7
   
 Deferred tax
   Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (2.1)  (0.5)  
   
 Total tax charge in the income statement 6.2 12.2
   
 The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows:
   Tax charge on continuing operations 6.2 12.2
   Tax charge/(credit) on discontinued operations – –
   
6.2 12.2
   
(b) Tax included in other comprehensive income or equity
 The tax charge/(credit) is made up as follows: 
 Deferred tax – (1.7)  
 Share based payments – 0.8 
   
– (0.9)  
   
(c)  Reconciliation of the total tax charge/(credit) for the year
 Profit before tax from continuing operations 4.6 26.5
 (Loss)/profit before tax from discontinued operations (1.9)  –
   
 Profit before tax 2.7 26.5
   
 Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2008, 28%)  0.8 7.4
 Effects of:
 Items not deductible for tax purposes 8.0 6.5
 Benefit of special tax status (1.4)  (4.9)  
 Adjustment to current tax in respect of prior periods (2.0)  (4.7)  
 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses and attributes (3.3)  –
 Current year tax losses and attributes not recognised 1.6 7.9
 Overseas tax rate differences 2.5 –
   
 Total tax expense reported in the income statement 6.2 12.2
    64    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 12 Discontinued operations
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Loss on disposal of businesses:
Loss before tax on prior year disposals (1.9) –
Taxation – –
   
Loss after tax on disposals (1.9) –
   
Loss from discontinued operations (1.9) –
   
The loss from discontinued operations relates to warranty claims and other costs in respect of businesses sold in prior years.
 13 Earnings per share
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the (loss)/profit for the year divided by the daily average 
of the number of shares in issue during the year. Diluted earnings per share is based on the same (loss)/profit but with the 
number of shares increased to reflect the daily average effect of relevant share options granted but not yet exercised where 
performance conditions have been met and shares contingently issuable.
2009 2008
£m £m
   
(Loss)/profit
(Loss)/profit after tax from continuing operations (1.6) 14.3
Loss from discontinued operations (1.9) –
   
(Loss)/profit for the year (3.5) 14.3
   
Number of
shares
(m)
Number of 
shares
(restated)
 (m)
   
Weighted average shares
Basic weighted average shares 211.6 204.3
Options 0.5 1.2
   
Diluted weighted average shares* 212.1 205.5
   
Pence Pence
   
Earnings per share
Basic from continuing operations (0.8) 7.0
   
Diluted from continuing operations (0.8) 7.0
   
Basic from discontinued operations (0.9) –
   
Diluted from discontinued operations (0.9) –
   
Basic on (loss)/profit for the year (1.7) 7.0
   
Diluted on (loss)/profit for the year (1.7) 7.0
   
*  Any anti-dilutive shares would be unlikely to impact earnings per share in the future.
Comparative figures for weighted average number of shares and earnings per share have been restated after adjusting for 
the bonus element of the 1 for 2 Rights Issue in 2009. The adjustment factor is 1.1528 calculated using 166p per share, 
being the closing price on 29 October 2009. Laird PLC    65   
note
 14 Underlying results
Underlying profit and earnings per share are shown as the Board considers them to be relevant guides to the performance of 
the Group. The tax charge for the year is equivalent to 23.4% (2008, 19.8%) of underlying profit before tax.
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Profit
Continuing profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items 33.6 68.5
Finance revenue 0.6 0.5
Finance costs (7.8)  (9.6)  
Other finance revenue – pension 0.1 1.2
   
Continuing underlying profit before tax 26.5 60.6
Discontinued operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items – –
   
Total underlying profit before tax 26.5 60.6
   
Tax
The underlying tax charge is calculated as follows: 
Underlying tax on continuing operations 6.2 12.0
Underlying tax on discontinued operations – –
   
Total underlying tax 6.2 12.0
Continuing underlying tax rate 23.4 19.8
Tax relief on exceptional items
Deferred tax on goodwill and acquired intangible assets
Tax on prior period discontinued operations
Tax on fair value movement of financial instruments
(1.8)  
1.8
–
–
(2.2)  
2.4
–
–
   
Total tax charge 6.2 12.2
   
Analysis of tax charge: 
Tax on profit from continuing operations
Tax on discontinued operations
6.2
–
12.2
–
   
Total tax charge 6.2 12.2
   
Pence Pence
   
Earnings per share  
Continuing underlying earnings per share – basic 9.6 23.8
   
Continuing underlying earnings per share – diluted 9.6 23.7
   
Comparative figures for weighted average number of shares and earnings per share have been restated after adjusting for 
the bonus element of the 1 for 2 Rights Issue in 2009. The adjustment factor is 1.1528 calculated using 166p per share, 
being the closing price on 29 October 2009.
 15 Dividends paid and proposed
On 9 March 2010 the Board declared, subject to approval from shareholders, a final dividend of 2.53p per share (2008, 6.84p). 
The final dividend will be paid on 4 June 2010 to shareholders registered on 7 May 2010. Dividends paid are charged to 
retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a legal liability of the Company.
Total Dividends Dividends paid
Dividends
declared / proposed*
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
     
Final 2007 – 14.0 – –
Interim 2008 – 7.1 – 7.1
Final 2008 14.0 – – 14.0
Interim 2009 – – 7.1 –
Final 2009 – – 6.7 –
     
14.0 21.1 13.8 21.1
     
* attributable to the period
% % 66    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 15 Dividends paid and proposed (continued)
Dividends per share† Dividends paid
Dividends
declared / proposed*
2009
Pence
2008
Pence
2009
Pence
2008
Pence
     
Final 2007 – 6.84 – –
Interim 2008 – 3.47 – 3.47
Final 2008 6.84 – – 6.84
Interim 2009 – – 3.47 –
Final 2009 – – 2.53 –
     
6.84 10.31 6.00 10.31
      
* attributable to the period
† Prior period and the interim 2009 dividends per share have been adjusted to reﬂ ect the bonus element of the Rights Issue in 2009.
 16 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Plant and
buildings machinery Total
 £m £m £m
    
Cost 
At 1 January 2008 22.0 93.5 115.5
Additions 1.5 28.3 29.8
New businesses – 0.1 0.1
Disposals (0.5)  (2.7)  (3.2)  
Foreign currency adjustment 10.0 47.1 57.1
    
At 31 December 2008 33.0 166.3 199.3
Additions – 18.0 18.0
Disposals (0.4)  (5.4)  (5.8)  
Foreign currency adjustment (3.7)  (18.1)  (21.8)  
    
At 31 December 2009 28.9 160.8 189.7
    
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2008 3.9 35.5 39.4
Charge for year 1.8 10.6 12.4
Exceptional write downs in the year – 1.8 1.8
Disposals (0.1)  (2.0)  (2.1)  
Foreign currency adjustment 3.7 20.4 24.1
    
At 31 December 2008 9.3 66.3 75.6
Charge for year 1.3 15.4 16.7
Exceptional write downs in the year 0.8 2.6 3.4
Disposals (0.3)  (4.7)  (5.0)  
Foreign currency adjustment (1.5)  (8.1)  (9.6)  
    
At 31 December 2009 9.6 71.5 81.1
    
Net book value at 31 December 2009 19.3 89.3 108.6
    
Net book value at 31 December 2008 23.7 100.0 123.7
    
Net book value at 1 January 2008 18.1 58.0 76.1
    
The exceptional write downs principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and have been included as part of the 
exceptional items disclosed in note 7. Laird PLC    67   
note
 17 Intangible assets
Capitalised 
development 
costs Goodwill
Customer 
relationships
Other acquired 
intangible
 assets Total
£m £m £m £m £m
      
Cost
At 1 January 2008 10.0 386.2 66.3 37.1 499.6
Additions 7.3 – – – 7.3
Acquisition of businesses in the year – 11.8 – 0.8 12.6
Adjustments in respect of prior year
   acquisitions – 0.4 – – 0.4
Foreign currency adjustment 4.0 134.4 23.5 11.9 173.8
      
At 31 December 2008 21.3 532.8 89.8 49.8 693.7
Additions 11.1 – – – 11.1
Disposals (2.0)  – – – (2.0)  
Foreign currency adjustment (1.5)  (52.4)  (9.0)  (4.7)  (67.6)  
      
At 31 December 2009 28.9 480.4 80.8 45.1 635.2
      
Amortisation
At 1 January 2008 3.2 24.5 11.6 9.3 48.6
Charge for the year 3.1 – 7.1 4.3 14.5
Foreign currency adjustment 1.4 8.7 6.1 4.4 20.6
      
At 31 December 2008 7.7 33.2 24.8 18.0 83.7
Charge for the year 5.6 – 8.3 5.0 18.9
Exceptional write down in the year 0.6 – – – 0.6
Disposals (1.9)  – – – (1.9)  
Foreign currency adjustment (0.6)  (3.3)  (2.7)  (1.9)  (8.5)  
      
At 31 December 2009 11.4 29.9 30.4 21.1 92.8
      
Net book value at 31 December 2009 17.5 450.5 50.4 24.0 542.4
      
Net book value at 31 December 2008 13.6 499.6 65.0 31.8 610.0
      
Net book value at 1 January 2008 6.8 361.7 54.7 27.8 451.0
      
Capitalised development costs
Internally generated assets arising from the capitalisation of qualifying development expenditure in 2009 typically have a 
finite expected useful life of less than 3 years. Capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a straight line basis. 
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits. The total amount of research and 
development activity expensed during 2009 is £42.8m (2008, £39.0m). There is no indication of impairment for capitalised 
development costs.
Goodwill
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for indications of impairment in accordance with IAS 36. No indications of 
impairment to goodwill were identified.
Performance Materials had a goodwill balance of £195.6m at the year end (2008, £216.2m). Handset Products had a 
goodwill balance of £137.7m at the year end (2008, £153.6m). Wireless Systems had a goodwill balance of £117.2m at the 
year end (2008, £129.8m). All of the recoverable amounts are based on value in use.
For the three divisions, the key assumptions were:
 A pre-tax discount rate of 10.5% (2008, 10.0%);
 Revenue growth rates for each division were based on relevant external market estimates and management knowledge. 
The discount rate has been applied to cash flow forecasts for 2010 to perpetuity.
Laird has consistently benefited from a low underlying tax charge relative to the UK corporation tax rate of 28% as the Group 
operates in a number of low tax cost jurisdictions. This has resulted in a lower discount rate than would otherwise be the 
case. A 28% tax rate would have resulted in a discount rate of 11.2%. 
The forecast cash flows for 2010 are based on what has been approved internally by the Board for the 2010 budget. 
Revenue estimates which underpin the forecasts for 2011-2014, have been based on external market estimates for 
handsets, PCs and Telecoms but after reflecting Managements’ views of average selling prices, product penetration trends 
and their impact on the size of the addressable market. Cash flows for 2015 onwards for all three divisions have been 
increased by 3% per annum (2008, 3% per annum). 68    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 17 Intangible assets (continued)
Contingencies have been applied to reduce the cash flows in recognition of the uncertain economic climate. Downside 
sensitivities have been applied to the cash flow estimates to assess the impact upon the headroom over the carrying value 
of the assets and provide further comfort that no impairment is required. Performance Materials has the greatest amount of 
headroom and Wireless Systems the least. The latter is a reflection of the impact the downturn in the automotive market had 
on the division, and even then revenues would have to be some 15% less than forecast for each period before some form of 
impairment would have to be considered.
Other acquired intangible assets
Assets in this class are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits. 
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets:
 Brand names – 5 years
 Trade secrets – 8 to 15 years
 Trade marks and names – 5 to 15 years
 Patents – the remaining duration of the 17 year legal right
 Licence – the remaining duration of the 20 year legal right
 Customer relationships – 10 years
The expected life assigned to acquired customer relationships is an estimate and is not secured by any legal obligation on 
the customer to continue business with the Group for any finite period. Other than goodwill, the Group does not hold any 
intangible assets with an indefinite life.
 18 Business combinations
Acquisition of businesses in 2009
There were no acquisitions in 2009. 
Acquisition of businesses in 2008
In February 2008, Ezurio Limited, a UK based supplier of machine to machine solutions for wireless data applications was 
acquired for a total consideration of £13.7m. This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition and all intangible 
assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as 
goodwill in the financial statements.
Book and fair values of the net assets of the business acquired were as follows:
Book 
values
£m
Fair values
to the
Group
£m
   
Property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1
Intangible assets 0.1 0.8
Inventories 0.7 0.7
Trade and other receivables 1.0 1.0
Income tax receivable 0.5 0.5
Trade and other payables (1.0)  (1.0)  
Deferred tax liabilities – (0.2)  
   
Net assets acquired 1.4 1.9
  
Goodwill arising on acquisition 11.8
 
Consideration 13.7
 
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash consideration (including transaction costs) (13.5)  
Deferred cash consideration (0.5)  
Net cash acquired 0.3
 
 (13.7)  
 
The Group has acquired a 100% interest in the acquisition noted above. Underlying losses before tax for the entity acquired 
were £1.0m following acquisition. If the acquisition had been held for the full year, 2008 revenues would have been £0.6m 
higher, at £635.9m and profit before tax would have been £0.2m lower, at £26.3m.
Details of the Group’s significant subsidiaries are disclosed in the list of ‘Principal subsidiaries’ on page 85.  Laird PLC    69   
note
 19 Inventories
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Raw materials and consumables 17.6 28.9
Work in progress 0.9 0.9
Finished goods 31.1 50.4
   
49.6 80.2
   
Expenses relating to inventories written down during the period totalled £1.2m (2008, £1.6m).
 20 Trade and other receivables
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Trade receivables 105.5 110.2
Other receivables 11.8 11.8
Prepayments and accrued income 3.7 7.0
   
121.0 129.0
   
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Sterling – 0.6
Euros 7.0 8.1
US dollars 62.6 67.3
Renminbi 24.7 23.9
Others 11.2 10.3
   
105.5 110.2
   
Out of the carrying amount of trade receivables of £105.5m (2008, £110.2m), £44.3m relates to ten major customers
(2008, £57.5m).
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for 
impairment. As at 31 December 2009, trade receivables at nominal value of £2.5m (2008, £3.2m) were impaired and fully 
provided for. 
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
   
At 1 January 3.2 1.3
Charge for the year 1.2 1.5
Amounts written off (1.1)  (0.3)  
Unused amounts reversed (0.5)  (0.3)  
Acquired / (disposed of)  – 0.2
Foreign currency adjustment (0.3)  0.8
   
At 31 December 2.5 3.2
   
The provision has been based on regular reviews of the collectability of individual customers’ trade receivable balances.
As at 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Total
Neither past
due nor
impaired
Less than
30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days
More than
90 days
£m £m £m £m £m £m
       
31 December 2009 105.5 91.2 10.1 2.7 0.8 0.7
31 December 2008 110.2 80.3 19.7 5.5 1.7 3.0
       
The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical 
information relating to counterparty default rates is used. 70    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 21 Cash
2009 2008
 £m £m
   
Cash at bank and in hand 53.7 46.9
   
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, “Cash and cash equivalents” comprises the following at 31 December:
2009 2008
 £m £m
   
Cash at bank and in hand 53.7 46.9
Bank overdrafts – –
   
53.7 46.9
   
 22 Borrowings
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Current:
Short term borrowings 4.4 1.3
US Private Placement loans due 2010 2.1 –
Acquisition related loan notes 2.0 6.3
   
8.5 7.6
   
Non-current:
US Private Placement loans due 2010/2012 4.1 7.0
US Private Placement loans due 2014 59.9 67.2
US Private Placement loans due 2016 26.5 29.8
Bilateral revolving bank loans – 74.8
Other term loans 0.1 –
   
90.6 178.8
   
Total borrowings 99.1 186.4
   
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
Within one year
   Bank 4.4 1.3
   Other 4.1 6.3
Between one and two years 
   Other 2.1 –
Between two and five years
   Bank 0.1 74.8
   Other 61.9 7.0
In five years or more
   Other 26.5 97.0
   
Total borrowings 99.1 186.4
   
The impact of foreign currency movements on Group borrowings is disclosed in the analysis of movements in net borrowings 
contained within note 32.
Notes
(a) There are no borrowings secured on the assets of subsidiary undertakings (2008, £nil). 
(b)  US Private Placement loans, arising from private placements of debt with US insurance companies, comprise $10m 
(2008, $10m) repayable between 2010 and 2012 at a fixed rate of interest of 7.44% and $140m (2008, $140m) 
repayable between 2014 and 2016 at an average fixed rate of interest of 5.64%.
(c)  The Group had committed bilateral revolving bank loan facilities of £265m which were underwritten in excess of two 
years. Drawings by Group companies under these facilities were £nil (2008, £75.1m). Although these drawings are 
repayable within one year they are classified as long term as they can be refinanced under the terms of the facilities. 
(d)  Ancillary costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings are amortised over the term of the facility, using 
the effective interest rate method. Laird PLC    71   
note
 23 Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
2009 2008
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£m £m £m £m
     
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year 6.5 0.4 7.0 0.7
Later than one year and less than five years 15.5 1.1 21.3 0.5
After five years 1.6 – 2.7 –
     
23.6 1.5 31.0 1.2
     
 24 Trade and other payables
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Trade payables 73.9 73.4
Social security costs 0.9 1.6
Other payables 26.9 30.2
Accruals and deferred income 7.1 9.9
   
108.8 115.1
   
 25 Deferred taxes
Deferred tax assets 2009 2008
£m £m
   
Losses 1.9 0.7
Other temporary differences 1.7 2.0
   
3.6 2.7
   
Deferred tax liabilities 2009 2008
£m £m
   
Accelerated capital allowances 48.3 53.2
Other temporary differences 2.7 4.6
   
51.0 57.8
   
Movements on deferred tax liabilities during the year were:
Accelerated tax
depreciation Other Total
£m £m £m
    
At 1 January 2008 41.4 2.5 43.9
Credited to the income statement (0.2)  (0.3)  (0.5)  
Credited to the statement of comprehensive income or equity – (0.9)  (0.9)  
Reclassification from/(to) deferred tax assets (2.1)  2.3 0.2
Fair value of intangible assets acquired 0.2 – 0.2
Foreign currency adjustment 13.9 1.0 14.9
    
At 1 January 2009 53.2 4.6 57.8
Credited to the income statement 1.0 (3.1)  (2.1)  
Reclassification from/(to) deferred tax assets (0.3)  1.5 1.2
Foreign currency adjustment (5.6)  (0.3)  (5.9)  
    
At 31 December 2009 48.3 2.7 51.0
    
Deferred tax assets have been established in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences where it is probable that 
these assets will be recovered.
Unrecognised tax losses
Deferred tax assets have not been established on trading losses of £14.4m (2008, £16.4m) where it is unlikely that future 
relief would be available at the balance sheet date. Of these losses, £3.6m (2008, £5.1m) have expiry dates between 2010 
and 2029 and £10.8m (2008, £11.3m) are available indefinitely. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on other 
deductible temporary differences of £22.4m (2008, £19.1m) where their use is restricted indefinitely.  72    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 25 Deferred taxes (continued)
Temporary differences associated with Group investments
Deferred tax of £1.3m (2008, £2.6m) has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where it 
is likely there will be income tax consequences attached to the payment of dividends. No deferred tax liability has been 
recognised on temporary differences of £29.7m (2008, £152.6m) relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, 
as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable they will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future. The temporary differences at 31 December 2009 are significantly reduced from the prior year as 
a result of a change to the UK tax legislation which largely exempts from UK tax, overseas dividends received on or after 
1 July 2009. The temporary differences at 31 December 2009 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas 
subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend 
withholding taxes levied by overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate. 
 26 Other non-current liabilities
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Other creditors 0.3 2.6
Accruals and deferred income 0.2 0.2
   
0.5 2.8
   
 27 Provisions
 
Warranty 
claims Other Total
£m £m £m
    
At 1 January 2009 
Current 5.6 1.4 7.0
Non-current – 4.0 4.0
    
5.6 5.4 11.0
Provided – 1.1 1.1
Utilised (1.2)  (0.8)  (2.0)  
Foreign currency adjustment – (0.5)  (0.5)  
    
At 31 December 2009 4.4 5.2 9.6
    
Analysed as:
Current 4.4 0.6 5.0
Non-current – 4.6 4.6
    
4.4 5.2 9.6
    
Warranty claims are in respect of potential liabilities arising from the disposal of businesses.
Other provisions consist primarily of amounts provided in respect of events arising from trade and various other provisions 
that do not fit into distinct categories. The timing of cash outflows for warranty claims and other provisions are by their 
nature uncertain and dependent upon the outcome of related events. The best estimates are shown in the table above.  Laird PLC    73   
note
 28 Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the 
notes to the financial statements (note 2). 
Financial assets
The financial assets of the Group comprised:
2009
£m
2008
£m
   
Current
Cash at bank and in hand (note 21) 53.7 46.9
Trade and other receivables (note 20) 113.5 119.2
Derivative financial instruments – 0.5
   
167.2 166.6
   
Non-current
Other non-current receivables 1.6 1.0
   
1.6 1.0
   
Financial liabilities
The financial liabilities of the Group comprised:
2009
£m
2008
£m
   
Current
Borrowings (note 22) 8.5 7.6
Derivative financial instruments 0.8 2.9
Trade and other payables (note 24) 105.1 114.2
   
114.4 124.7
   
Non-current
Borrowings (note 22) 90.6 178.8
Other payables (note 26) 0.5 2.8
   
91.1 181.6
   
Interest rate risk profile of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest 
rate risk:
Year ended 31 December 2009 Within
1 year
1 – 2 
Years
2 – 3 
Years
3 – 4
Years
4 – 5
Years
More
than 5 
Years Total
        
Fixed rate
$10m US Private Placement loans at 7.44% due 2010/2012 2.1 2.1 2.0 – – – 6.2
$97m US Private Placement loans at 5.59% due 2014 – – – – 59.9 – 59.9
$43m US Private Placement loans at 5.76% due 2016 – – – – – 26.5 26.5
        
Sub Total 2.1 2.1 2.0 – 59.9 26.5 92.6
        
Floating rate
Cash (53.7)  – – – – –(53.7)  
Loan notes 2.0 – – – – – 2.0
Short term bank loans 4.4 – – – – – 4.4
Other term loan 0.1 – – – – – 0.1
         
Sub Total (47.2)  – – – – –(47.2)  
        
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. 
Interest on the financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument. 74    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 28 Financial instruments (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2008 Within
1 year
1 – 2 
Years
2 – 3 
Years
3 – 4
Years
4 – 5
Years
More
than 5 
Years Total
        
Fixed rate
$10m US Private Placement loans at 7.44% due 2010/2012 – 2.3 2.3 2.4 – – 7.0
$97m US Private Placement loans at 5.59% due 2014 – – – – – 67.3 67.3
$43m US Private Placement loans at 5.76% due 2016 – – – – – 29.7 29.7
        
Sub Total – 2.3 2.3 2.4 – 97.0 104.0
        
Floating rate
Cash (46.9)  – – – – –(46.9)  
Bilateral revolving bank loans – – – 74.8 – – 74.8
Loan notes 6.3 – – – – – 6.3
Short term bank loans 1.3 – – – – – 1.3
Interest rate swap (0.5)  – – – – – (0.5)  
        
Sub Total (39.8)  – – 74.8 – – 35.0
        
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group holds forward foreign exchange contracts to manage foreign exchange exposures. The forward contracts have 
a principal value of £33.7m (2008, £71.0m) and are mainly denominated in US dollar, Indian rupee, Euro and Swedish krona. 
These contracts have not been designated as cash flow hedges and the increase in fair value during 2009 of £2.1m (2008, 
£2.9m decrease) has been taken to the income statement.
Interest rate and currency profile
The Group’s policy is to maintain an appropriate balance between variable and fixed interest rate borrowings. Interest rate 
swaps and similar instruments are used to manage interest costs. $70m of US Private Placement loans were swapped from 
fixed to variable interest rates for a five year term, which expired in 2009. No other interest rate swaps have been entered 
into during the period so that over 90 per cent of debt is at fixed rate. This position is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure 
it is still appropriate.
Interest rate risk
The Group holds the majority of its debt at fixed rates since the repayment of its floating rate bilateral loans with the proceeds 
of the Rights Issue in October 2009. The following table shows the impact of this on the sensitivity to a change in interest 
rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s profit before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings). 
There is no impact on the Group’s equity. The interest rates considered are Sterling and US dollar, being the currencies in 
which the Group have historically issued debt and held investments.
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes those 
recognised at fair value as well as all non-derivative floating rate financial instruments. Where the Group has taken out fixed 
to variable interest rate swaps, the impact from changes in interest rates is also included for the purpose of the sensitivity 
analysis.
Effect on profit before tax
£m
  
2009
50 basis points increase in US dollar interest rates –
50 basis points increase in sterling interest rates –
A 50 basis point decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect.
2008
50 basis points increase in US dollar interest rates 0.3
50 basis points increase in sterling interest rates 0.2
A 50 basis point decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect.
Credit risk
Laird’s customer base is largely focused in the global electronics market where it has leading positions in its principal products 
with customers who themselves have significant market shares. Inevitably this results in levels of business and trade 
receivables that are material in the overall Group context. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the 
carrying amount of the financial assets.
Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to transactional currency exposures on sales and purchases denominated in currencies other than 
the functional currency of the subsidiary. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US dollar, Euro and Renminbi. 
The Group policy is to match out the sales and purchases in these currencies wherever possible and then hedge out the 
residual exposures. Laird PLC    75   
note
 28 Financial instruments (continued)
The following table shows the sensitivity to a possible change in US dollar, Euro and Renminbi exchange rates against 
sterling with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s profit before tax (due to changes in the fair value of monetary 
assets, liabilities and forward currency contracts) and the Group’s equity (due to changes in the fair value of forward currency 
hedges and net investment hedges). 
Effect on profit 
before tax
Effect on
equity
£m £m
   
2009
10% appreciation of the US dollar 6.2 (9.7)  
10% appreciation of the Euro (0.2)  –
10% appreciation of the Renminbi (0.2)  –
2008
10% appreciation of the US dollar 3.6 (10.3)  
10% appreciation of the Euro (0.1)  –
10% appreciation of the Renminbi (0.2)  –
A 10% depreciation of the stated currencies would have an equal and opposite effect. 
Net investment hedging
Included in borrowings are US $150.0m of debt which have been designated as a hedge of the net investments in the United 
States subsidiaries. This is being used to hedge the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments. Gains 
or losses on the retranslation of the borrowings are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net 
investments in the subsidiaries.
Liquidity risk
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2009 and 2008 based on 
contractual undiscounted payments.
Year ended 31 December 2009
On
demand
£m
Within 1
Year
£m
1 to 5
Years
£m
More
than 5
Years
£m
Total
£m
      
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 4.4 15.5 86.5 28.2 134.6
Trade and other payables – 105.1 0.5 – 105.6
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 0.8 – – 0.8
      
4.4 121.4 87.0 28.2 241.0
      
Year ended 31 December 2008
On
demand
£m
Within 1
Year
£m
1 to 5
Years
£m
More
than 5
Years
£m
Total
£m
      
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 0.7 12.6 178.1 33.3 224.7
Trade and other payables – 114.2 2.8 – 117.0
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 2.9 – – 2.9
      
0.7 129.7 180.9 33.3 344.6
      
The Group ensures that there are sufficient levels of committed facilities, cash and cash equivalents in place to meet its 
financial commitments as they fall due.
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
The Group’s financial policy is to maintain committed borrowing facilities, which provide substantial headroom over and 
above its day to day borrowing requirements. 
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December were as follows:
2009
£m
2008
£m
   
Expiring between two and three years 265.0 –
Expiring between three and four years – 189.9
   
265.0 189.9
   
  76    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 28 Financial instruments (continued)
Loan covenants
The principal covenants in the Group’s committed loan facilities and loan note agreements that place restrictions on net 
borrowings are based on UK GAAP and are set out below:
Interest cover
The interest cover covenant is for earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax and amortisation (“EBITA”) to be not less 
than 2.5 times interest payable.
Net borrowings: EBITDA ratio
Net borrowings must not exceed 3.5 times earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
(“EBITDA”).
The Group was in compliance with the covenants detailed above at 31 December 2009.
Fair value of financial instruments
The US Private Placement loans with a book value of £92.6m (2008, £104.0m) have an estimated fair value of £94.4m 
(2008, £95.2m) which has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing coupon rates as at 31 December 2009.
There are no material differences between fair value and book value on any of the other financial instruments.
 29 Authorised and issued share capital
2009 2008
Authorised £m £m
     
320,000,000 (2008, 248,888,888) ordinary shares of 28.125p 90.0 70.0
     
2009 2008
Issued and fully paid Shares £m Shares £m
     
Ordinary shares of 28.125p each 
At 1 January 177,534,804 49.9 177,262,248 49.8
Issued for exercise of share options –– 272,556 0.1
Issued by Right 88,767,402 25.0 ––
     
At 31 December 266,302,206 74.9 177,534,804 49.9
     
During the year no shares were issued under the Company’s 2003 executive share option scheme (2008, 272,556 ordinary 
shares were issued under the Company’s 2003 executive share option scheme for a consideration of £861,054).
266,302,206 ordinary shares of 28.125p each were in issue at the year end (2008, 177,534,804 shares of 28.125p each). 
On 28 October 2009 the Company announced a 1 for 2 Rights Issue at 100 pence per new share. The Rights Issue raised 
£88.8m and Issue expenses were £5.8m.
At 31 December 2009, options to subscribe for 3,418,860 ordinary shares at prices between 140p and 510p were 
outstanding under the Company’s executive share option schemes (2008, 2,642,117 ordinary shares at prices between 
140p and 510p, as adjusted for the Rights Issue). Options outstanding under the schemes are held by 17 individuals and are 
exercisable at various times up to 12 May 2019. No further options have been granted since the year end.
 30 Share based payments
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 40 to 46, sets out the general terms and conditions including vesting 
requirements for the Share Price Improvement Plan (SPIP), Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the 1994 Share Option Scheme 
and the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan. Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) vest 3 years after they 
have been awarded to the employee at nil cost, provided the employee is still employed by the Group. 
All share based payments are equity settled. An expense of £1.6m was recognised in the year (2008, £1.8m) before 
employer’s national insurance and was based on the fair value of the LTIP shares awarded, the RSP shares awarded, the 
SPIP shares awarded and the share options granted.
The schemes were amended to take account of the Rights Issue in 2009. The number of shares outstanding at the date 
of the Rights Issue were increased by a factor of 1.1528 and the exercise price of any options was adjusted by a factor of 
0.8675. These factors were calculated using 166p, being the closing price on 29 October 2009. Any historic figures in the 
tables that follow have been adjusted where necessary by these factors. Laird PLC    77   
note
 30 Share based payments (continued)
The following table shows the number of SPIP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year. The executive 
directors to whom awards were made under the SPIP waived those awards in March 2010.
2009 2008
Number Number
   
Outstanding as at 1 January 768,517 –
Granted during the year – 768,517
   
Outstanding as at 31 December 768,517 768,517
   
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, end of the year and those granted 
during the year.
2009 2008
Number Number
   
Outstanding as at 1 January 642,566 1,085,377
Granted during the year 406,931 338,728
Lapsed during the year (328,088)  (398,000)  
Vested and exercised during the year – (383,539)  
   
Outstanding as at 31 December 721,409 642,566
   
The following table shows the number of RSP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
2009 2008
Number Number
   
Outstanding as at 1 January 535,303 312,558
Granted during the year – 323,285
Lapsed during the year (55,910)  (78,040)  
Vested and exercised during the year (124,410)  (22,500)  
   
Outstanding as at 31 December 354,983 535,303
   
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options 
issued under the 1994 Share Option Scheme.
2009 2008
2009
Number
WAEP
(p)  
2008
Number
WAEP
(p)  
     
Outstanding as at 1 January
 Option prices 115-205p 272,467 140 272,467 140
 Option prices 206-286p 48,901 255 48,901 255
 Option prices 287-374p 29,694 315 29,694 315
     
351,062 171 351,062 171
Exercised
 Option prices 115-205p –– ––
 Option prices 206-286p –– ––
Expired (29,694)  315 ––
Forfeited –– ––
     
321,368 157 351,062 171
     
Outstanding as at 31 December
 Option prices 115-205p 272,467 140 272,467 140
 Option prices 206-286p 48,901 255 48,901 255
 Option prices 287-374p –– 29,694 315
     
321,368 157 351,062 171
     
Exercisable at 31 December 321,368 157 351,062 171
      78    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 30 Share based payments (continued)
As at 1 January, options over 272,467 shares (2008, 272,467 shares) and at 31 December options over 272,467 shares 
(2008, 272,467 shares) were accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 and resulted in a charge against profits. The balance 
of the share options were granted prior to 7 November 2002 and do not result in a charge against profits in accordance 
with the transitional arrangements of IFRS 2. No options from the above scheme were exercised during 2009 or 2008. 
For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2009, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 2.6 years 
(2008, 3.3 years). 
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options 
issued under the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan.
2009 2008
2009
Number
WAEP
(p)  
2008
Number
WAEP
(p)  
     
Outstanding as at 1 January
 Option prices 115-205p 272,967 169 272,967 169
 Option prices 206-280p 975,702 264 1,012,821 264
 Option prices 281-397p 392,451 396 627,888 368
 Option prices 398-510p 649,935 470 307,502 509
     
2,291,055 334 2,221,178 316
Issued 813,861 147 342,433 434
Exercised
 Option prices 115-205p –– ––
 Option prices 206-280p –– (37,119)  271
 Option prices 281-397p –– (235,437)  323
 Option prices 398-510p –– ––
Forfeited (7,424)  323 ––
     
3,097,492 285 2,291,055 334
     
Outstanding as at 31 December
 Option prices 115-205p 1,086,828 153 272,967 169
 Option prices 206-280p 975,702 264 975,702 264
 Option prices 281-397p 385,027 397 392,451 396
 Option prices 398-510p 649,935 470 649,935 470
     
3,097,492 285 2,291,055 334
     
Exercisable at 31 December 1,628,073 279 1,256,098 244
     
All options in the table above were recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as noted above. No options were exercised in 
2009, and the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in 2008 was 441p. For the 
share options outstanding at 31 December 2009, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.7 years (2008, 6.8 
years). 912,886 options (2008, 99,025) in the price range 115p to 205p, 388,522 options (2008, 394,147) in the price 
range 206p to 280p, 162,542 options (2008, 162,542) in the price range 281p to 397p and 282,027 (2008, 282,027) in the 
price range 398p to 510p are subject to the higher performance targets set out in the table on page 44 of the Directors’ 
remuneration report. 
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including the market based performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. The non-market performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
The weighted average fair value (in pence) of SPIP , LTIP , RSP and share options granted during the year was as follows:
2009 2008
   
SPIP – 56
LTIP 81 210
RSP – 372
Share options 45 110 Laird PLC    79   
note
 30 Share based payments (continued)
The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2009.
SPIP SPIP
LTIP
& RSP
LTIP
& RSP ESOP ESOP
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
       
Dividend Yield (%) – 2.5 4.0 2.5 4.0 2.5
Expected Share Price volatility (%) – 25 40 25 40 25
Expected comparator volatility (%) – n/a 30 20 n/a n/a
Risk-free interest rate (%) – 4.4 n/a n/a 3.0 4.1
Expected life of LTIP/option (years) – 5.0 3.0 3.0 7.0 7.0
Weighted average share price (p) – 461.5 147.0 433.7 147.0 433.7
The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise 
patterns that may occur. 
The expected share price volatility is based on historical volatility; average of monthly activity over the last three years. 
Expected volatility reflects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily 
prove to be the actual outcome. Dividends are not payable on shares prior to vesting and this is taken into account in 
calculating the fair value. 
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting.
 31 Reserves
Merger reserve
On 28 October 2009 the Company announced a 1 for 2 Rights Issue at 100 pence per new share. It was executed using 
a structure which created a merger reserve arising under Section 612-3 of Companies Act 2006. After receipt of the cash 
proceeds through the structure, the excess of net proceeds over the nominal value of the share capital issued of £58.0m has 
been transferred from the merger reserve to retained earnings.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign subsidiaries. It is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments in foreign operations.
Treasury shares
The investment in Laird shares as held by the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”), as described on page 45 of 
the Directors’ remuneration report, are treated as treasury shares for accounting purposes. At 31 December 2009 the Trust 
held 119,457 shares (2008, 204,048 shares) which all relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan. The shares held by the Trust 
had a total market value at that date of £0.2m (2008, £0.3m). 80    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 32 Additional cash flow information
Cash generation from operations
Continuing operations 2009 2008
 £m £m
   
Net (loss)/profit after taxation (1.6)  14.3
Depreciation and other non-cash items
   Depreciation 16.7 12.4
   Amortisation of capitalised development costs 5.6 3.1
   Exceptional property, plant and equipment write downs 3.4 1.8
   Exceptional capitalised development costs write downs 0.6 –
   Exceptional inventory write downs 1.2 1.6
   Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment – (0.2)  
   Share based payments 1.6 1.8
   Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 13.3 11.4
   Financial instruments – fair value adjustments (1.6)  2.4
   Pension charges 0.4 0.6
Other net finance costs 7.1 7.9
Taxation 6.2 12.2
Net pension contributions (0.2)  (1.0)  
Changes in working capital 
   Inventories 22.0 (5.2)  
   Trade and other receivables (5.1)  56.3
   Trade, other payables and provisions (4.3)  (45.7)  
   
12.6 5.4
   
Cash generated from continuing operations 65.3 73.7
   
Discontinued operations 
  
Loss after taxation (1.9)  –
Loss on disposal of businesses before taxation 1.9 –
   
Cash flow from discontinued operations – –
   
Cash generated from operations 65.3 73.7
   
Note:
(a)  Changes in working capital from continuing operations are after creditor decreases of £7.4m (2008, £6.8m increases) in 
respect of exceptional costs of redundancy and restructuring. Laird PLC    81   
note
 32 Additional cash flow information (continued)
Net cash outflow on acquisitions and disposals
 2009 2008
 £m £m
   
Acquisition of businesses
Consideration:
Cash consideration – (13.5)  
Net cash acquired – 0.3
   
 – (13.2)  
Deferred consideration paid (1.8)  (4.5)  
    
Net cash outflow on acquisition of businesses (1.8)  (17.7)  
   
Disposal of businesses
Consideration:
Net cash consideration
   Prior year disposals (2.6)  11.5
   
Net cash (outflow)/inflow on disposal of businesses (2.6)  11.5
   
Analysis of movements in net borrowings
At
1 January Cash Non-cash Exchange
At 
31 December
Year to 31 December 2009 2009 flow changes differences 2009
£m £m £m £m £m
      
Cash at bank 46.9 11.1 – (4.3)  53.7
Loans due within one year (7.6)  0.4 (2.1)  0.8 (8.5)  
Loans due after more than one year (178.8)  73.3 2.1 12.8 (90.6)  
      
Total (139.5)  84.8 – 9.3 (45.4)  
      
At
1 January Cash Non-cash Exchange
At 
31 December
Year to 31 December 2008 2008 flow changes differences 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
      
Cash at bank 32.8 1.2 – 12.9 46.9
Overdrafts (0.4)  0.4–––
Loans due within one year (9.0)  (2.2)  (4.9)  8.5 (7.6)  
Loans due after more than one year (108.8)  (14.6)  4.9 (60.3)  (178.8)  
      
Total (85.4)  (15.2)  – (38.9)  (139.5)  
      
 33 Capital commitments
2009
£m
2008
£m
   
Future capital expenditure not provided in the accounts
   Contracts placed 0.7 2.5
   
 34 Contingent liabilities
There are legal claims against the Company or its subsidiary undertakings but none where the Board takes the view that it is 
likely that damages will be awarded against the Group which would have a materially adverse effect on its financial position.  82    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 35  Retirement benefit obligations
Pension schemes
The Group operates a number of pension schemes of both the defined benefit and defined contribution types.
12 employees (2008, 14) are members of two different defined benefit schemes and these schemes have approximately 
1,700 (2008, 1,700) deferred and current pensioners. The employer contributions made to these schemes during the year 
were £0.3m (2008, £1.0m). 
The total assessed value of the schemes’ assets at 31 December 2009, at their market value, is estimated at £91.4m (2008, 
£84.3m) and the liabilities estimated at £92.7m (2008, £82.0m). 
The Group has adopted IFRIC 14 which, depending on the rules of individual schemes, allows the Group to recognise 
pensions surpluses on the statement of financial position where there is an unconditional right to a refund. The resultant 
aggregate net pension liability under IAS 19 is £2.5m (2008, £0.1m asset). 
The market value of the schemes’ assets, the present value of the schemes’ liabilities and the net pension assets and liability 
under IAS 19 at 31 December were as follows.
Schemes 
in surplus 
with a right 
to a refund
Other 
schemes Total
Schemes
in surplus
with a right
to a refund 
Other 
schemes Total
2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m
       
Annuities 9.0 – 9.0 8.4 – 8.4
Equities 37.5 – 37.5 29.3 – 29.3
Gilts and bonds 44.8 – 44.8 42.0 – 42.0
Other including cash 0.1 – 0.1 4.6 – 4.6
       
Total market value of assets 91.4 – 91.4 84.3 – 84.3
Present value of scheme liabilities (87.9)  (4.8)  (92.7)  (78.1)  (3.9)  (82.0)  
       
Funded status 3.5 (4.8)  (1.3)  6.2 (3.9)  2.3
       
Disallowed assets (1.2)  – (1.2)  (2.2)  – (2.2)  
       
Surplus/(deficit) in the schemes 2.3 (4.8)  (2.5)  4.0 (3.9)  0.1
       
The expected long term rates of return on gilts and bonds are estimated at 4.7% per annum (2008, 4.3%) and those for 
equities at 8.2% per annum (2008, 8.3%). The returns on the annuities match the relevant liabilities.
Asset return assumptions have been derived by considering best estimates for the expected long term real rates of return 
from the main asset classes. For gilts and corporate bonds, a return in line with the returns available in the markets for these 
assets has been assumed. For equities, a higher rate of return than for bond assets has been assumed, to reflect the greater 
returns anticipated over the long term from a mixture of UK and overseas equities.
The mortality assumption used at the 2009 year end is based on 92 series tables with an allowance for improvements in line 
with the medium cohort based on each member’s year of birth, subject to a minimum level of future improvement of 1.5%. 
Executive and director members have an age rating of -1 years and all other members have an age rating of +2 applied to 
the base table. The expected lifetime of a participant who is age 65 and the expected lifetime of a participant who will be age 
65 in 15 years are shown in years below based on these mortality tables:
Other members
Executive and director 
members
Age Males Females Males Females
     
65 21.1 24.4 24.0 27.3
65 in 15 years 23.1 26.5 26.1 29.4
The mortality assumption used at the 2008 year end is based on 92 series tables with an allowance for improvements in line 
with the medium cohort based on each member’s year of birth. The expected lifetime of a participant who is age 65 and 
the expected lifetime of a participant who will be age 65 in 15 years are shown in years below based on the above mortality 
tables:
Age Males Females
   
65 22.0 24.8
65 in 15 years 22.8 25.7 Laird PLC    83   
note
 35 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
For IAS 19 the schemes’ liabilities have been calculated under the projected unit method and the main financial assumptions 
were inflation of 3.8% per annum (2008, 3.1%), salary increases of 4.8%-5.8% per annum (2008, 4.1%-5.1%) and a 
discount rate for liabilities of 5.65% per annum (2008, 6.1%). 
Analysis of the defined benefit cost for the year ended 31 December:
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Current service cost 0.4 0.6
   
Total charge to operating profit 0.4 0.6
   
Expected return on pension investments (5.0)  (6.0)  
Interest on pension liabilities 4.9 4.8
   
Finance income relating to pensions (0.1)  (1.2)  
   
Total (charge)/credit to income statement before deduction of tax 0.3 (0.6)  
   
The charge in respect of defined contribution plans was £1.3m during 2009 (2008, £1.4m).
Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows:
2009 2008
Total
£m
Funded
plans
£m
Unfunded 
plans
£m
Total
£m
Funded
plans
£m
Unfunded 
plans
£m
       
As at 1 January 82.0 78.1 3.9 88.9 84.8 4.1
   Current service cost 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.6 0.3 0.3
   Interest cost 4.9 4.7 0.2 4.8 4.6 0.2
   Actuarial gains and losses 11.0 10.4 0.6 (5.0)  (4.3)  (0.7)  
   Benefits paid (5.6)  (5.6)  – (3.7)  (3.7)  –
   Settlement/curtailment gain ––– (3.6)  (3.6)  –
       
As at 31 December 92.7 87.9 4.8 82.0 78.1 3.9
       
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are analysed as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
   
As at 1 January 84.3 97.9
   Employer contributions 0.3 1.0
   Benefits paid (5.6)  (3.7)  
   Expected return on assets 5.0 6.0
   Asset gain/(loss)  5.8 (13.3)  
   Proceeds from insurer 2.0 –
   Plan termination (0.4)  (3.6)  
     
As at 31 December 91.4 84.3
   
Proceeds from insurer of £2.0m were received during the year (2008, £nil) following the death of a scheme member.
Employer contributions of £0.3m (2008, £1.0m) during the year include £nil (2008, £0.7m) of additional payments made over 
and above regular contributions. 84    Laird PLC
note
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
 35 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
History of experience gains and losses:
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
      
Fair value of scheme assets 91.4 84.3 97.9 83.2 78.2
Present value of defined benefit obligation (92.7)  (82.0)  (88.9)  (93.2)  (94.6)  
      
Funded status (1.3)  2.3 9.0 (10.0)  (16.4)  
      
Disallowed assets (1.2)  (2.2)  (0.9)  (0.4)  –
      
Surplus/(deficit) in the schemes (2.5)  0.1 8.1 (10.4)  (16.4)  
      
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities 0.7 (1.8)  (0.1)  – 1.9
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets 5.8 (13.3)  (0.1)  1.2 4.5
The movement for the year in the statement of comprehensive income is:
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Proceeds from insurer 2.0 –
Other actuarial gains/(losses) (5.2)  (8.4)  
Movement in tax provision on surplus 0.8 (1.3)  
   
(2.4)  (9.7)  
   
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income is a loss 
of £18.4m (2008, £16.0m loss) since 1 January 2004. The directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains 
and losses that would have been recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income from the date of inception 
of the company schemes to 31 December 2003.
The Group estimates that the total value of contributions to defined benefit schemes will be £0.4m in 2010.
Within Sweden, the Group operates a scheme, included within a multiemployer plan, for its employees which is insured 
with Alecta. This scheme is a defined benefit scheme, but Alecta is currently unable to provide sufficient information to 
report the Group’s proportional share of the defined benefit commitments and the assets under management and expenses 
associated with the scheme. Consequently, Alecta cannot provide the information regarding the Group’s proportional share 
of the surplus or deficit in the scheme. As a result the scheme is accounted for as if it were a defined contribution scheme, 
although it is actually a defined benefit scheme. Laird PLC    85   
Principal subsidiaries
Th  e following were the principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2009. All subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned and 
operate principally in the country of incorporation or registration unless stated otherwise. The list excludes (under the provisions of 
Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006) certain subsidiary undertakings which do not materially affect the accounts.
Name of company
Country of incorporation
 or registration Nature of business
Laird Technologies
AeroComm, Inc.* USA Wireless Systems
Antenex, Inc.* USA Antennae products
Centurion Electronics (Shanghai) Limited* China Antennae products
Centurion Wireless Components (M) SDN. BHD* Malaysia Antennae products
Ezurio Limited* UK Wireless Systems
Laird Technologies (Beijing) Co., Ltd.* China Antennae and actuation products
Laird Technologies GmbH.* Rosenheim, Germany EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies GmbH.* Hildesheim, Germany Antennae products
Laird Technologies Gothenburg AB* Sweden Thermal products
Laird Technologies Handset Products (Shenzhen) Limited* China Antennae products
Laird Technologies India Private Limited* India Antennae and EMI products
Laird Technologies Japan, Inc. * Japan Multiple products
Laird Technologies Korea Y.H.* Korea Multiple products
Laird Technologies S. de R. L. de C. V. * Mexico Multiple products
Laird Technologies (SEA) PTE Limited* Singapore Multiple products
Laird Technologies (Shanghai) Limited* China EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies (Shenzhen) Limited* China Multiple products
Laird Technologies S.R.O.* Czech Republic EMI and thermal products
Laird Technologies Taiwan, Inc.* Taiwan Multiple products
R&F Products, Inc. * USA EMI and thermal products
RecepTec Corp.* USA Antennae products
Steward, Inc.* USA Signal integrity products
Steward (Foshan) Magnetic Materials Co., Ltd.* China Signal integrity products
Tianjin Laird Technologies Limited* China Multiple products
* Held by a subsidiary undertaking 86    Laird PLC
Five year summary
Trading results 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
      
Revenue
– continuing operations 528.8 635.3 564.3 370.6 259.4
– discontinued operations – – 72.9 237.7 249.3
      
Total revenue 528.8 635.3 637.2 608.3 508.7
      
Operating profit
– continuing operations 33.6 68.5 80.0 55.4 37.7
– discontinuing operations – – 4.4 27.8 27.9
      
33.6 68.5 84.4 83.2 65.6
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (13.3)  (11.4)  (10.5)  (7.1)  (4.4)  
Exceptional items (10.2)   (20.3)  (11.0)   – (15.5)  
(Loss)/profit on disposal of businesses (1.9)   – 85.3 (2.1)  (7.8)  
Finance costs (net) before exceptionals (7.1)  (7.9)  (7.6)  (9.9)  (10.5)  
Exceptional finance costs – – (1.5)   – –
Financial instruments – fair value adjustments 1.6 (2.4)  1.2 0.2 (1.1)  
      
Profit before tax 2.7 26.5 140.3 64.3 26.3
Taxation (6.2)  (12.2)  (12.6)  (13.6)  (6.1)  
      
(Loss) / profit after tax (3.5)  14.3 127.7 50.7 20.2
      
Underlying profit before tax 26.5 60.6 76.8 73.3 55.1
      
Non-current assets 658.7 741.4 541.5 520.4 447.7
Current assets 225.6 259.5 250.1 237.8 180.7
      
Net borrowings 45.4 139.5 85.4 109.1 148.1
      
Shareholders’ equity 579.6 585.3 448.5 409.2 284.3
      
Basic earnings per share* (1.7)  7.0 59.6 23.2 10.5
Basic underlying earnings per share* 9.6 23.8 30.3 27.5 23.7
Dividends per share* 6.00 10.31 53.35 8.93 8.29
Dividend cover** 1.6 2. 3. 3. 2.
*  Comparative figures for earnings and dividends per share have been restated after adjusting for the bonus element of the 1 for 2 
Rights Issue in 2009.
** Based on underlying earnings and excluding the 43.35p special dividend in 2007.
p pp p p
p pp p p
p p pp p
3 0 19 Laird PLC    87   
Shareholder information
Financial calendar
31 December 2009  Financial year end
10 March 2010 Announcement of results
27 April 2010 Annual General Meeting
7 May 2010 Record date for final dividend
4 June 2010 Payment of final dividend
July 2010 Announcement of half year results
31 December 2010 Financial year end
Administrative enquiries
Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in Laird 
PLC, such as the loss of a share certificate, dividend 
payments, or a change of address should be directed, in 
the first instance, to the Registrar whose address is:
Capita Registrars
Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge,
Huddersfield HD8 0GA
Telephone 0871 664 0300 
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras. 
Lines are open 8.30 am – 5.30 pm Monday – Friday)
Telephone (overseas) +44 20 8639 3399
Fax +44 (0)1484 600911
Email ssd@capitaregistrars.com
www.capitashareportal.com
Correspondence should refer to Laird PLC and state clearly 
the registered name and address of the shareholder. Please 
notify the Registrar promptly of any change of address.
Dividend bank mandates
Should you wish dividends to be paid directly into a bank or 
building society account and notification to be sent to your 
shareholder register address, please contact the Company’s 
Registrar, Capita Registrars, for a dividend mandate form. 
Alternatively a dividend mandate form can be downloaded 
at www.capitaregistrars.com/shareholders/information.
A number of online facilities are available to you through 
the website of Capita Registrars in respect of your 
shareholding in Laird PLC. To make use of any of these 
facilities, please log on to Capita Registrars’ website at 
www.capitashareportal.com. You will need to register for 
the share portal, on the right hand side select “register for 
the share portal”, then select Laird PLC from their client 
list. You will need to input your surname, investor code and 
postcode as well as input an email address and select a 
password. Should you have any questions please email 
shareportal@capita.co.uk.
Advisers
Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
Financial advisers 
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Principal bankers
HSBC Bank plc
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Bank of China Limited
Principal lawyers 
Ashurst
Proskauer Rose LLP
Analysis of shareholders as at 31 December 2009
Size of shareholding
Number 
of holders % of total
Total 
holding % of total
     
Up to 5,000 shares 3,088 83.8 2,880,820 1.1
5,001 to 50,000 shares 344 9.3 5,511,724 2.1
50,001 to 200,000 shares 101 2.8 11,159,984 4.2
Over 200,000 shares 152 4.1 246,749,678 92.6
     
Total 3,685 100.0 266,302,206 100.0
      88    Laird PLC
LAIRD PLC
PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS
  Page      
Statement of directors’ responsibilities  89
Independent auditor’s report  90
Parent company balance sheet 91
Notes to the financial statements of parent company 92 Laird PLC    89   
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
in relation to the accounts
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the independent auditor set out on page 90, is 
made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditor in relation to the 
accounts.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Company for the financial year.
The directors consider that in compiling the accounts on pages 91 to 102, which have been prepared on a going concern basis, the 
Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and 
estimates and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy 
the financial position of the Company which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. They are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 90    Laird PLC
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the Members of Laird PLC
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise 
the Parent company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 16. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 89, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is 
to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the parent company financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud 
or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the parent company financial statements.
Opinion on parent company financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2009;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
 the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009. 
Nick Gomer (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
London
9 March 2010 Laird PLC    91   
Parent company balance sheet
as at 31 December 2009
note 2009
£m
2008
£m
    
Fixed assets
2 Tangible assets 0.2 0.3
3 Investments 768.3 770.1
    
768.5 770.4
    
Current assets
4 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 4.7 12.7
5 Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 245.6 300.4
Cash at bank 3.7 7.4
    
254.0 320.5
    
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
6 Borrowings (2.1)  –
8 Other (15.2)  (58.6)  
    
(17.3)  (58.6)  
    
Net current assets 236.7 261.9
    
Total assets less current liabilities 1,005.2 1,032.3
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
6 Borrowings (90.5)  (178.7)  
8 Other (373.0)  (399.2)  
    
(463.5)  (577.9)  
    
10 Provisions for liabilities – (0.2)  
    
Net assets excluding pension deficit 541.7 454.2
11 Pension deficit (4.8)  (3.9)  
    
536.9 450.3
    
Capital and reserves
12 Ordinary share capital 74.9 49.9
13 Share premium account 269.7 269.7
13 Special reserve 55.5 55.5
13 Retained earnings 137.0 75.4
13 Treasury shares (0.2)  (0.2)  
    
Equity shareholders’ funds 536.9 450.3
    
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
P J HILL
J C SILVER
Directors 92    Laird PLC
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
of parent company
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Financial statements of parent company
 1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation 
The accounts of Laird PLC are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The accounts have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments and 
accounting for pensions under FRS 17. This is in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards. As consolidated 
financial information for financial instruments and financial risk management has been disclosed under IFRS 7 in the Group 
accounts, the parent is exempt from FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. The disclosures in respect of the Company 
are included in the Group accounts. Pensions are disclosed in accordance with FRS 17. The financial statements present 
information about the Company as an individual undertaking and not about the Group.
Profit and loss
As permitted by the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has not presented its own profit 
and loss account. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation of fixed assets evenly over their expected useful lives, principally 
as follows:
Computer equipment  5 years or less
Motor vehicles  4 years
Other plant and machinery 13 years or less
A proportion of one year’s depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Pensions
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to the operating profit or loss 
in the year. The full cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service and gains and losses arising on 
unanticipated settlements or curtailments are also charged to the operating profit or loss in the year. The expected return 
on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the market value of scheme assets at the start of the year and the 
expected increase in liabilities of the schemes are included within other finance (charges)/income. Differences between actual 
and expected returns on assets during the year are recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses in the year 
together with differences from changes in assumptions. The deficit on defined benefit pension schemes, net of deferred tax, 
is reported on the balance sheet as the pension liability. The accounts include pension schemes where the parent company 
is the principal employer.
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Dividends
Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a 
legal liability of the Company.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but which have not reversed at the balance 
sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to 
pay less, or to receive more tax subject to the following:
(a)  Deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary assets such as property unless a binding sale 
agreement exists at the balance sheet date. Where rollover relief is available on an asset then deferred tax is not 
recognised.
(b)  Deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries unless dividends have been accrued as receivable 
or there is a binding agreement to distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date.
(c)  Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Assets are regarded as 
recoverable when it is regarded as more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal 
of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets 
and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Financial assets 
Debtors are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Where the time 
value of money is material, debtors are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the 
Company will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as 
being remote. The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is 
impaired. Gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account when the loans and receivables are derecognised or 
impaired. 
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment. Trade and other receivables 
are discounted when the time value of money is considered material. Laird PLC    93   
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 1 Accounting policies (continued)
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, inclusive of any transaction costs. Measurement after initial 
recognition is at amortised cost, with the changes in the carrying amount being taken through the profit and loss account.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in 
finance income and finance expense.
Derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as currency swap contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge 
its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially 
recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair 
value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with 
similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar 
instruments.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to 
the profit and loss account. 
Share based payments
In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 20, the expense recognised in the Company profit and loss account 
relates to equity settled grants made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on 1 January 2005.
The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) shares awarded is estimated at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo 
simulation technique, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including 
market based performance conditions. The fair value of share options granted is estimated at the date of grant using a 
binomial lattice method of calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. 
Non-market performance conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
For grants that ultimately do not vest, charges previously made are reversed except that an expense is recognised for 
awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not 
the market condition is satisfied, provided all the other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as 
vesting as described above. 
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and loss account, 
with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not 
been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share 
based payment, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of 
cancellation or settlement, and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately. 
 2 Tangible assets
The fixed assets of the Company were acquired at a cost of £0.8m (2008, £0.8m) and have accumulated depreciation of 
£0.6m (2008, £0.5m) charged against them. There were no additions nor disposals during the year and depreciation in the 
year was £0.1m (2008, £0.1m).
 3 Investments in subsidiaries 
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Shares in subsidiaries at cost 785.9 788.1
Less provisions for diminution in value (17.6)  (18.0)  
   
768.3 770.1
   
Principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2009 are disclosed in the Laird PLC consolidated financial statements on 
page 85. 94    Laird PLC
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 3 Investments in subsidiaries (continued) 
The movement in the net book value of investments in subsidiaries during the year was as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
   
At 1 January 770.1 770.1
Disposals (1.8)  –
   
At 31 December 768.3 770.1
   
 4 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1.8 6.4
Derivative financial instrument – 0.5
Prepayments and accrued income 0.8 0.6
Taxation 2.1 5.2
   
4.7 12.7
   
 5 Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 245.4 300.0
Prepayments and accrued income 0.2 –
Deferred tax asset (note 9) – 0.4
   
245.6 300.4
   
 6 Borrowings
2009 2008
Due within one year: £m £m
   
US Private Placement loans 2010 2.1 –
   
Due after more than one year: 
US Private Placement loans 2010/2012 4.1 7.0
US Private Placement loans 2014 59.9 67.2
US Private Placement loans 2016 26.5 29.8
Bilateral revolving bank loans – 74.7
   
 90.5 178.7
   
Total borrowings 92.6 178.7
   
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009 Laird PLC    95   
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 6 Borrowings (continued) 
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
Within one year
 Other 2.1 –
Between one and two years
 Other 2.1 –
Between two and five years
 Bank – 74.7
 Other 61.9 7.0
In five years or more
 Other 26.5 97.0
   
Total borrowings 92.6 178.7
   
Notes
(a) Company borrowings are unsecured. 
(b)  US Private Placement loans, arising from private placements of debt with US insurance companies, of $10m 
(2008, $10m) are repayable between 2010 and 2012 at a fixed rate of interest of 7.44% and $140m (2008, $140m) are 
repayable between 2014 and 2016 at an average fixed rate of interest of 5.64%.
(c)  The Company had committed bilateral bank loan facilities of £265m which were underwritten for in excess of two years. 
 7 Financial instruments
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” and has not 
disclosed information required by that standard as the Group’s consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is 
included, provide equivalent disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”.
 8 Other creditors
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Due within one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 4.7 53.1
Dividends payable 7.1 –
Social security costs 0.1 0.2
Other creditors 1.7 1.4
Accruals and deferred income 0.8 1.0
Derivative financial instruments 0.8 2.9
   
15.2 58.6
   
Due after more than one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 368.9 389.2
Derivative financial instruments 3.1 9.1
Taxation 1.0 0.9
   
373.0 399.2
   
 9 Deferred taxation
The main components of deferred tax included within debtors falling due after more than one year are as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Other timing differences – 0.4
   
Movements during the year were:
£m
  
At 1 January 2009 0.4
Released in the year (0.4)  
  
At 31 December 2009 –
  
The amount of deferred tax that has not been provided is £0.1m. At present it is not envisaged tax will become payable in 
the foreseeable future.  96    Laird PLC
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 10 Provisions for liabilities
The movement in provisions during the year was a utilisation of £0.2m.
 11 Pension schemes
The Company operates two defined benefit schemes.
12 employees (2008, 14) are members of these defined benefit schemes and these schemes have approximately 1,700 
(2008, 1,700) deferred and current pensioners. The employer contributions made to these schemes during the year were 
£0.3m (2008, £1.0m). 
The total assessed value of the schemes’ assets at 31 December 2009 at their market value is estimated at £91.4m (2008, 
£83.9m) and the liabilities estimated at £92.7m (2008, £82.0m). 
The market value of the schemes’ assets, the present value of the schemes’ liabilities and the net pension liability under 
FRS 17 at 31 December were as follows:
Total Total
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Annuities 9.0 8.4
Equities 37.5 29.3
Gilts and bonds 44.8 42.0
Other including cash 0.1 4.2
   
Total market value of assets 91.4 83.9
Present value of scheme liabilities (92.7)  (82.0)  
   
Funded status (1.3)  1.9
   
Disallowed assets (3.5)  (5.8)  
   
Deficit in the schemes (4.8)  (3.9)  
    
The expected long term rates of return on gilts and bonds are estimated at 4.7% per annum (2008, 4.3%) and those for 
equities at 8.2% per annum (2008, 8.3%). The returns on the annuities match the relevant liabilities.
Asset return assumptions have been derived by considering best estimates for the expected long term real rates of return 
from the main asset classes. For gilts and corporate bonds, a return in line with the returns available in the markets for these 
assets has been assumed. For equities, a higher rate of return than for bond assets has been assumed, to reflect the greater 
returns anticipated over the long term from a mixture of UK and overseas equities.
The mortality assumption used at the 2009 year end is based on 92 series tables with an allowance for improvements in line 
with the medium cohort based on each member’s year of birth, subject to a minimum level of future improvement of 1.5%. 
Executive and director members have an age rating of -1 years and all other members have an age rating of +2 applied to 
the base table. 
The expected lifetime of a participant who is age 65 and the expected lifetime of a participant who will be age 65 in 15 years 
are shown in years below based on these mortality tables:
Other members
Executive and director
 members
Age Males Females Males Females
     
65 21.1 24.4 24.0 27.3
65 in 15 years 23.1 26.5 26.1 29.4
     
The mortality assumption used at the 2008 year end is based on 92 series tables with an allowance for improvements in line 
with the medium cohort based on each member’s year of birth. The expected lifetime of a participant who is age 65 and the 
expected lifetime of a participant who will be age 65 in 15 years are shown in years below based on the above mortality tables:
Age Males Females
   
65 22.0 24.8
65 in 15 years 22.8 25.7
   
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009 Laird PLC    97   
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 11 Pension schemes (continued)
For FRS 17 the schemes’ liabilities have been calculated under the projected unit method and the main financial assumptions 
were inflation of 3.8% per annum (2008, 3.1%), salary increases of 4.8% - 5.8% per annum (2008, 4.1% - 5.1%) and a 
discount rate for liabilities of 5.65% per annum (2008, 6.1%).
Analysis of the defined benefit cost for the year ended 31 December:
2009 2008
£m £m
   
Current service cost 0.4 0.6
Gain on settlements or curtailments – –
   
Total charge to operating profit 0.4 0.6
Expected return on pension investments (5.0)  (6.0)  
Interest on pension liabilities 4.9 4.8
   
Finance income relating to pensions (0.1)  (1.2)  
   
Total (credit)/charge to profit and loss account before deduction of tax 0.3 0.6
   
Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
   
As at 1 January 82.0 85.3
 Current service cost 0.4 0.6
 Interest cost 4.9 4.8
 Employee contributions – –
 Actuarial gains and losses 11.0 (5.0)  
 Benefits paid (5.6)  (3.7)  
 Settlement/curtailment gain – –
 Acquisition – –
   
As at 31 December 92.7 82.0
   
The defined benefit obligation comprises £4.8m (2008, £3.9m) arising from an unfunded plan, and £87.9m (2008, £78.1m) 
from a scheme that is wholly funded.
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets are analysed as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
   
As at 1 January 83.9 93.9
 Employer contributions 0.3 1.0
 Employee contributions – –
 Benefits paid (5.6)  (3.7)  
 Expected return on assets 5.0 6.0
 Asset gain/(loss) 5.8 (13.3)  
 Proceeds from insurer 2.0 –
   
As at 31 December 91.4 83.9
   
Proceeds from insurer of £2.0m were received during the year (2008, £nil) following the death of a scheme member.
Employer contributions of £0.3m (2008, £1.0m) during the year include £nil (2008, £0.7m) of additional payments made over 
and above regular contributions. 98    Laird PLC
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 11 Pension schemes (continued)
History of experience gains and losses:
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
                                 
Fair value of scheme assets 91.4 83.9 93.9 72.0 66.8
Present value of defined benefit obligation (92.7)  (82.0)  (85.3)  (81.5)  (81.6)  
      
Funded status (1.3)  1.9 8.6 (9.5)  (14.8)  
      
Disallowed assets (3.5)  (5.8)  (12.8)  ––
      
Deficit in the scheme (4.8)  (3.9)  (4.2)  (9.5)  (14.8)  
      
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities 0.7 (1.8)  (0.1)  – 0.5
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets 5.8 (13.3)  0.2 0.9 1.9
The movement for the year included within total recognised gains and losses:
2009 2008
£m £m
    
Proceeds from insurer 2.0 –
Other actuarial gains/(losses) (2.9)  (1.4)  
    
  (0.9)  (1.4)  
    
The estimated total value of contributions to defined benefit schemes will be £0.4m in 2010. 
 12 Authorised and issued share capital
2009 2008
Authorised £m £m
     
320,000,000 (2008, 248,888,888) ordinary shares of 28.125p 90.0 70.0
     
2009 2008
Issued and fully paid Shares £m Shares £m
     
Ordinary shares of 28.125p each 
At 1 January 177,534,804 49.9 177,262,248 49.8
Issued for exercise of share options –– 272,556 0.1
Issued by Right 88,767,402 25.0 ––
     
At 31 December 266,302,206 74.9 177,534,804 49.9
     
During the year no shares were issued under the Company’s 2003 executive share option scheme (2008, 272,556 ordinary 
shares were issued under the Company’s 2003 executive share option scheme for a consideration of £861,054).
266,302,206 ordinary shares of 28.125p each were in issue at the year end (2008, 177,534,804 shares of 28.125p each). 
On 28 October 2009 the Company announced a 1 for 2 Rights Issue at 100 pence per new share. The Rights Issue raised 
£88.8m and issue expenses were £5.8m.
At 31 December 2009, options to subscribe for 3,418,860 ordinary shares at prices between 140p and 510p were outstanding 
under the Company’s executive share option schemes (2008, 2,642,117 ordinary shares at prices between 140p and 510p, 
as adjusted for the Rights Issue). Options outstanding under the schemes are held by 17 individuals and are exercisable at 
various times up to 12 May 2019. No further options have been granted since the year end.
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009 Laird PLC    99   
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 13 Shareholders’ funds 
Ordinary 
share 
capital
Share
premium
Special
reserve
Merger
reserve
Profit
and loss
account
Investment
in own
shares Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
        
At 1 January 2008 49.8 268.9 55.5 – 124.6 (1.9)  496.9
Total recognised gains and losses – – – – (28.6)   – (28.6)  
Exercise of share options 0.1 0.8 – – – – 0.9
Share based payments – – – – 1.8 – 1.8
Treasury shares – – – – – 0.4 0.4
Vesting of LTIPs – – – – (1.3)  1.3 –
Dividends paid – – – – (21.1)   – (21.1)  
        
At 1 January 2009 49.9 269.7 55.5 – 75.4 (0.2)  450.3
Total recognised gains and losses – – – – 23.2 – 23.2
Rights Issue of share capital 25.0 – – 63.8 – – 88.8
Rights Issue expenses – – – (5.8)   – – (5.8)  
Transfer between reserves – – – (58.0)  58.0 – –
Share based payments – – – – 1.6 – 1.6
Treasury shares – – – – – (0.1)  (0.1)  
Vesting of LTIPs – – – – (0.1)  0.1 –
Dividends paid – – – – (14.0)   – (14.0)  
Dividends payable – – – – (7.1)   – (7.1)  
        
At 31 December 2009 74.9 269.7 55.5 – 137.0 (0.2)  536.9
         
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
A profit after taxation of £24.1m (2008, £26.5m loss) has been credited to the profit and loss account brought forward 
of the Company after crediting exchange gains of £5.5m (2008, £20.0m losses) and crediting dividends from subsidiary 
undertakings of £1.8m (2008, £37.2m). Other movements in the profit and loss account included within total recognised 
gains and losses were a loss of £0.9m (2008, £2.1m). 
The special reserve of £55.5m was created by a transfer from the share premium account under High Court Sanction in 
December 1989. 
The movements on merger reserve were as a result of the 1 for 2 Rights Issue at 100 pence per new share. It was executed 
using a structure which created a merger reserve arising under Section 612-3 of Companies Act 2006. After receipt of 
the cash proceeds through the structure, the excess of net proceeds over the nominal value of the share capital issued of 
£58.0m has been transferred from the merger reserve to retained earnings.
The investment in own shares are those held by the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”), as described on 
page 45 of the Directors’ remuneration report. At 31 December 2009 the Trust held 119,457 shares (2008, 204,048 shares) 
which all relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan. The shares held by the Trust had a total market value at that date of £0.2m 
(2008, £0.3m).
 14 Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2009 the Company had contingent liabilities in respect of  guarantees relating to the performance of 
contracts of subsidiary undertakings.
There are legal claims against the Company but none where the Board takes the view that it is likely that damages will be 
awarded against the Group which would have a materially adverse effect on its financial position.  100    Laird PLC
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 15 Share based payments
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 40 to 46, sets out the general terms and conditions including vesting 
requirements for the Share Price Improvement Plan (SPIP), Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the 1994 Share Option Scheme 
and the 2003 Executive Share Option Plans. Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) vest three years after 
they have been awarded to the employee at nil cost, provided the employee is still employed by the Group. 
All share based payments are equity settled. An expense of £1.6m was recognised in the year (2008, £1.8m) before 
employer’s national insurance and was based on the fair value of the LTIP shares awarded, the RSP shares awarded, the 
SPIP shares awarded and the share options granted.
The schemes were amended to take account of the Rights Issue in 2009. The number of shares outstanding at the date 
of the Rights Issue were increased by a factor of 1.1528 and the exercise price of any options was adjusted by a factor of 
0.8675. These factors were calculated using 166p, being the closing price on 29 October 2009. Any historic figures in the 
tables that follow have been adjusted where necessary by these factors.
The following table shows the number of SPIP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year. The executive 
directors to whom awards were made under the SPIP waived those awards in March 2010.
2009 2008
Number Number
    
Outstanding as at 1 January 768,517 –
Granted during the year – 768,517
   
Outstanding as at 31 December 768,517 768,517
   
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, end of the year and those granted 
during the year.
2009 2008
Number Number
     
Outstanding as at 1 January 642,566 1,085,377
Granted during the year 406,931 338,728
Lapsed during the year (328,088)  (398,000)  
Vested and exercised during the year – (383,539)  
   
Outstanding as at 31 December 721,409 642,566
   
The following table shows the number of RSP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
2009 2008
Number Number
    
Outstanding as at 1 January 535,303 312,558
Granted during the year – 323,285
Lapsed during the year (55,910) (78,040)
Vested and exercised during the year (124,410) (22,500)
    
Outstanding as at 31 December 354,983 535,303
    Laird PLC    101   
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 15 Share based payments (continued)
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options 
issued under the 1994 Share Option Scheme.
2009
Number
2009
WAEP
(p)
2008
Number
2008
WAEP
(p)
     
Outstanding as at 1 January
 Option prices 115-205p 272,467 140 272,467 140
 Option prices 206-286p 48,901 255 48,901 255
 Option prices 287-374p 29,694 315 29,694 315
     
351,062 171 351,062 171
Exercised
 Option prices 115-205p – – – –
 Option prices 206-286p – – – –
Expired (29,694)  315 ––
Forfeited – – – –
     
321,368 157 351,062 171
     
Outstanding as at 31 December
 Option prices 115-205p 272,467 140 272,467 140
 Option prices 206-286p 48,901 255 48,901 255
 Option prices 287-374p – – 29,694 315
     
321,368 157 351,062 171
     
Exercisable at 31 December 321,368 157 351,062 171
     
As at 1 January, options over 272,467 shares (2008, 272,467 shares) and at 31 December options over 272,467 shares 
(2008, 272,467 shares) were issued and a charge recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 and resulted in a charge against 
profits. The balance of the share options were granted prior to 7 November 2002 and do not result in a charge against 
profits in accordance with the transitional arrangements of IFRS 2. No options from the above scheme were exercised during 
2009 or 2008. For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2009, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 
2.6 years (2008, 3.3 years). 
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options 
issued under the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan.
2009
Number
2009
WAEP
(p)
2008
Number
2008
WAEP
(p)
     
Outstanding as at 1 January
 Option prices 115-205p 272,967 169 272,967 169
 Option prices 206-280p 975,702 264 1,012,821 264
 Option prices 281-397p 392,451 396 627,888 368
 Option prices 398-510p 649,935 470 307,502 509
     
2,291,055 334 2,221,178 316
Issued 813,861 147 342,433 434
Exercised
 Option prices 115-205p – – ––
 Option prices 206-280p –– (37,119)  271
 Option prices 281-397p – – (235,437)  323
 Option prices 398-510p – – – –
Forfeited (7,424)  323 ––
     
3,097,492 285 2,291,055 334
     
Outstanding as at 31 December
 Option prices 115-205p 1,086,828 153 272,967 169
 Option prices 206-280p 975,702 264 975,702 264
 Option prices 281-397p 385,027 397 392,451 396
 Option prices 398-510p 649,935 470 649,935 470
     
3,097,492 285 2,291,055 334
     
Exercisable at 31 December 1,628,073 279 1,256,098 244
      102    Laird PLC
Financial statements of parent company (continued)
 15 Share based payments (continued)
All options in the table above were recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as noted above. No options were exercised in 
2009, and the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in 2008 was 441p. For the 
share options outstanding at 31 December 2009, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.7 years (2008, 6.8 years). 
912,886 options (2008, 99,025) in the price range 115p to 205p, 388,522 options (2008, 394,147) in the price range 206p to 
280p, 162,542 options (2008, 162,542) in the price range 281p to 397p and 282,027 (2008, 282,027) in the price range 398p 
to 510p are subject to the higher performance targets set out in the table on page 44 of the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including the market based performance 
conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. The non-market performance conditions set out 
in the Directors’ remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
The weighted average fair value (in pence) of SPIP , LTIP , RSP and share options granted during the year was as follows:
2009 2008
   
SPIP – 56
LTIP 81 210
RSP – 372
Share options 45 110
The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2009.
SPIP SPIP
LTIP
& RSP
LTIP
& RSP ESOP ESOP
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
       
Dividend Yield (%) – 2.5 4.0 2.5 4.0 2.5
Expected Share Price volatility (%) – 25 40 25 40 25
Expected comparator volatility (%) – n/a 30 20 n/a n/a
Risk-free interest rate (%) – 4.4 n/a n/a 3.0 4.1
Expected life of LTIP/option (years) – 5.0 3.0 3.0 7.0 7.0
Weighted average share price (p) – 461.5 147.0 433.7 147.0 433.7
The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise 
patterns that may occur. 
The expected share price volatility is based on historical volatility; average of monthly activity over the last three years. 
Expected volatility reflects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily 
prove to be the actual outcome. Dividends are not payable on shares prior to vesting and this is taken into account in 
calculating the fair value. 
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting.
 16 Auditor’s remuneration
The Company paid £27,000 (2008, £27,000) to its auditor in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Company.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the 
individual accounts of Laird PLC because Group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees 
on a consolidated basis.
Definitions
Group Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
of parent company (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009 Laird PLC    103    104    Laird PLC
Title Definition Rationale
Revenue/growth expressed in US dollars
Current and prior year revenue expressed in 
US dollars
The majority of Laird’s revenues are in US$ or in 
currencies linked to the US$. This removes the 
effect of translating these into £
Underlying profit before tax (£m)
Profit before tax stated before exceptional items, the 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets, the gain 
or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising 
from the fair valuing of financial instruments and 
acquisition transaction costs
The Board believes that this provides a more 
consistent measure of operating performance
Underlying operating profit before 
interest and tax (£m)
Underlying profit before tax, as defined above, 
adding back the net interest charge (excluding the 
fair value of financial instruments)
Allows comparability with Laird’s peers, as this takes 
out the impact of a company’s financing structure
Underlying operating profit margin (%)
Underlying profit before interest and tax is 
expressed as a % of total revenue
Underlying operating profit margin is used as 
an indicator of the profitability of the revenues 
delivered by Laird and its divisions, before the 
effects of financing
Effective tax rate (%)
The underlying tax charge expressed as a % of 
underlying profit before tax
Expressed as a percentage, this allows comparison 
both with peers and with corporation tax rates in 
other countries
Underlying tax charge
The tax charge per the income statement is 
adjusted to exclude the effect of discontinued 
operations, exceptional items and deferred tax 
on acquired goodwill and intangible assets
Presents the tax charge on a methodology 
consistent with underlying profits, to give an 
effective measure of Laird’s operating tax charge
Underlying earnings
Underlying profit before tax less the underlying 
tax charge
A key stock market measure
Underlying EPS (pence)
Underlying earnings divided by the weighted 
average number of shares outstanding during 
the year
Provides a measure for shareholders of the 
earnings generated by the business, allows 
comparability with Laird’s peers and is a key 
indicator used by investors
Operating cash conversion (%)
Operating cash flow expressed as a % of 
underlying operating profit before interest and tax
Provides a measure of how efficient Laird is at 
generating cash from profit, and gives an indication 
of Laird’s ability to pay dividends, service its debt 
and to make discretionary investments
Return on capital employed (%)
Underlying profit before interest and tax expressed 
as a % of the average capital employed for the 
Group over the year
Laird’s aim is to improve shareholder value. RoCE 
provides an indication of how Laird is performing 
relative to peers
Net debt: EBITDA
The ratio of Group net debt to underlying profit 
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
as defined in Laird’s banking covenants
Laird must operate below a certain ratio as part of 
the banking facilities, this provides a measure of 
how much headroom Laird has
Interest cover
The ratio of underlying profit before interest and 
tax to the annual interest charge within the income 
statement as defined in Laird’s banking covenants
Laird must operate above a certain ratio as part of 
the banking facilities, this provides a measure of 
how much headroom Laird has
Expenditure on R&D as a % of revenue
Expenditure on research and development, before 
capitalised development, as a % of revenue
This provides a measure of investment in Research 
and Development, which demonstrates Laird’s 
commitment to develop new technology to drive 
growth
Energy consumption (KwH/£million 
of revenue)
Total energy consumption for the group in KwH 
expressed as a % of revenue
This measure evaluates how energy efficient the 
production processes of Laird are
Greenhouse gas emissions (kg/£million 
of revenue)
Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated by 
applying specific factors to power consumption, 
which is then expressed as a % of revenue
This measures Laird’s impact on the environment, 
as it tries to minimise the environmental impact of 
its operations
Waste to landfill sites (kg/£million 
of revenue)
Total waste to landfill sites expressed as a % of 
revenue
As Laird handles large amounts of packaging for 
transportation a process to minimise packaging 
waste has been established
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Designed and produced by Appetite  Illustrator Paul Wearing. Printed by royle print, a Carbon Neutral printing company, on Revive uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made 
from post-consumer collected waste. The printer and paper supplier are both accredited to ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard and both are FSC certiﬁ ed. Laird PLC
100 Pall Mall
London SW1Y 5NQ
020 7468 4040
www.laird-plc.com
