 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
A year of signiﬁcant 
change Overview
01 Our business
02 How we have performed
03 Chairman’s statement
04 Laird in pictures
06 Group at a glance
08 Where we operate
Business review
11 Chief Executive’s strategic review
17 How we do business
22 Market overview
24 Key Performance Indicators
Operating review 
28 Performance Materials
30 Wireless Systems
32 Corporate Social Responsibility
Financial review 
37 Finance Director’s report
41 Principal risks and uncertainties 
Governance
45 Board of Directors
46 Directors’ report
49 Corporate governance report
55 Directors’ remuneration report
Financial accounts
67 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
68 Independent auditor’s report – Group
70 Group income statement
71 Group statement of comprehensive income
71 Group statement of changes in equity
72 Group statement of ﬁnancial position
73 Group cash ﬂow statement
74 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
74 Accounting policies
114 Parent company accounts
115 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
116 Independent auditor’s report – Company
117 Parent company balance sheet
118 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements of parent company
129 Principal subsidiaries
130 Five year summary
Additional information
131 Shareholder information
132 Glossary
 P12
Q&A with  
David Lockwood
 P37
Finance Director’ s 
report
What’s in this report
 P26
Vital signs
 P16
Being heard above the noise
 P27
Operating review
 P17
Our Business Model
Division enables 
BU-Company 
and Cross-BU 
interaction
Business Model
Market development
New segments to Laird
New geographies to Laird
Adjacent segments
Cross business unit
Core business
Customer and product 
focused growth
Existing MARKET New Laird is a global technology company focused 
on providing components and solutions that 
protect electronic devices from electromagnetic 
interference and heat, and that enable 
connectivity through wireless applications 
and antennae systems.
We are a leader in the design, development 
and supply of innovative technology that 
allows people, organisations, and applications 
to connect efﬁciently.
Our Mission is to be ‘a trusted partner 
delivering technology to the world through 
innovation, reliable fulﬁlment and speed’ .
We are a truly global company fulﬁlling 
customer requirements wherever they 
are based. 
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
1 Overview
How we have performed
Financial highlights:
 Revenue from continuing operations of 
£520.2 million, up 6 % on 201 1 
 Underlying proﬁt before tax
(i)
 of £60.7 million, 
up 1 7 %
 Proﬁt before tax from continuing operations 
£45. 1 million, up 54 %
 Improvement in operating margin to 1 3. 1 % 
(201 1 , 1 1.9 % )
 Full year underlying earnings per share
(i)(ii)
 
of 19. 1 pence, up 18%
 Statutory basic earnings per share
(ii)
 17 .5 pence 
(201 1, (44.8) pence)
 Final dividend per share declared of 6.6 pence 
(201 1, 5.3 pence). Total 2012 dividend of 10.0 
pence, in line with previously announced dividend 
recommendations (201 1, 8.0 pence)
 Cash conversion of 109% (201 1, 104 % )
Operational highlights:
 Additional capacity on stream to meet strong 
demand for tablets and smartphones
 Strong margin improvement from new products, 
vertical integration, withdrawal from low margin 
business and operating efﬁciencies
 Major Telematics automotive long-term contracts 
won for H2 2014
Financial highlights
The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 
2012 contains the Directors’ report on pages 3 to 21 and 24 to 66. 
Explanatory notes:
(i)
 Laird uses underlying results as key performance indicators. Underlying proﬁt before 
tax and underlying earnings per share are stated before exceptional items, the 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible 
assets, goodwill and US capitalised development costs, the gain or loss on disposal 
of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of ﬁnancial instruments and 
acquisition transaction costs. The narrative is based on underlying operating proﬁt, 
proﬁt before tax and earnings per share, as the directors believe that these provide a 
more consistent measure of operating performance
(ii)
 The weighted average number of shares used to calculate earnings per share was 
265.6 million in 2012 and 265.4 million in 2011
Revenue from continuing operations
+6% from 2011
£491.3m 2011
£520.2m 2012
Underlying proﬁt before tax
(i)
+17% from 2011
£51.7m 2011
£60.7m 2012
Full year underlying earnings per share
(i)(ii)
+18% from 2011
16.2 pence 2011
19.1 pence 2012
104% 2011
Cash conversion
+5% from 2011
109% 2012
£520.2 million
19.1 pence
£60.7 million
109%
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2 Chairman’s statement
Results and strategic progress
Nigel Keen Chairman
2012 has been a year of signiﬁcant change for Laird
The Group delivered a robust set of results with strong growth in 
proﬁt, outstanding cash conversion, improving margins and increased 
revenues driven from the now fully integrated acquisitions. Revenue 
on an organic basis was level with last year largely as a result of market 
conditions which, with some notable exceptions, remained subdued.
Whilst remaining focused on cash generation, we have continued 
to invest in our business, and brought on additional capacity in 
China during the year. Our focus on providing a high level of service 
and fulﬁlment remains a major strength of our business and this 
excellence continues to deliver results.
In March 2012 we announced the acquisition of two businesses, 
Microwave Materials Group NV (the holding company of Emerson 
& Cuming) and Summit Technologies. Emerson & Cuming has 
allowed us to expand our product range in our Performance Materials 
division and bolster our leading position across the breadth of the 
EMI (electromagnetic interference shielding) market. Summit, 
now integrated into our Wireless Systems division, brings expertise 
in wireless modules used particularly in difﬁcult environments 
for radio communications. In the second half of the year, we 
completed the exit of our Handset Antennae business which had 
been overshadowing the underlying strong performance of our two 
divisions for some time. 
Board changes
As part of our process of Board change, two of our long serving Board 
members, Bill Spivey and Andrew Robb, stepped down at the Annual 
General Meeting in May 2012. I would like to thank Bill and Andrew 
for their invaluable service to the Company. We welcomed Paula 
Bell to the Board in March. Paula, who is also Chairman of our Audit 
Committee, brings a wealth of ﬁnance and business experience.
David Lockwood was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 
13 August 2012. Since David’s appointment there have been a 
number of organisation changes to encourage more collaborative 
working across the business in pursuit of a single vision for the 
Group, which was presented to City stakeholders in a Business 
Review in December 2012. He has also made a number of internal 
organisational changes which allows more collaborative working 
across the business units and enhances the operational culture. 
The senior 250 leaders in Laird attended a working conference to 
explore and understand how, as a collective leadership, more value 
can be delivered to customers and ultimately shareholders.
Dividends
The Board has declared a 2012 ﬁnal year dividend of 6.6 pence 
per share (201 1, 5.3 pence), resulting in a total full year dividend 
of 10.0 pence (201 1, 8.0 pence), in line with our recommendation 
for dividend payments to deliver a compound annual growth rate 
averaging 24 % from 2010 to 2013.
The Board’s dividend policy is to increase returns to shareholders 
over time, while taking account of both the underlying proﬁtability 
and cash requirements of the business.
Employees
We have performed well during the year due to the hard work 
of all our employees, whether it is through innovation, high levels 
of customer service or reliable fulﬁlment. I would like to thank all 
employees for their professionalism and commitment which allows 
us to achieve this goal.
We have a well ﬁnanced business base from which our excellent 
teams can deliver innovative and valuable products to our customers 
around the world. Although we operate in an uncertain economic 
environment we are conﬁdent that we will continue to provide 
increasing value for all our stakeholders now and in the years 
to come.
 
Nigel Keen 
Chairman 
28 February 2013
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
3 Overview
We deliver innovation, reliable  
fulﬁlment and speed
Our focus: differentiation
In 2012, we expanded our EMI 
capacity in Shanghai. 
Laird in pictures
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
4 We have talented employees who we continue  
to develop and train.
Innovation is fundamental  
to delivering our strategy.  
We have 590 granted patents  
and 330 patents pending.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
5 Overview
Performance Materials
What we do
The division designs and supplies a full range of 
electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding materials, 
thermal management solutions and signal integrity 
products (SIP), providing critical protection for a wide 
range of electronic devices, allowing them to function 
and connect effectively. These products isolate and 
protect sensitive electronic components and systems 
from the electronic emissions and stop them from 
interacting with other components, and ﬁlter and 
remove electromagnetic ‘noise’ and improve a device’s 
performance through the efﬁcient management of heat.
Markets
Our Performance Materials products are supplied to 
a broad range of markets including IT and telecom, 
handsets, medical and automotive. 
Laird has two divisions, Performance Materials and Wireless Systems
Group at a glance
1. IT/Telecom 35%
2. Handset 25%
3. Other 23%
4. Consumer 8%
5. Medical 5%
6. Transportation 4%
Revenue by market segment
1
6
5
4
3
2
Revenue
+6% (2011, £305.0 million)
£324.7 million
Our products explained
EMI
Electronic devices give off electromagnetic 
emissions as a by-product of electrical or 
magnetic activity that can interfere with the 
operation of other devices. EMI shielding 
products isolate sensitive apparatus from 
these electromagnetic ﬁelds.
Thermal Management
Electronic applications generate heat that 
can adversely affect a device’s performance. 
Our thermal management materials and 
active cooling solutions provide a way to 
manage and actively control heat in a variety 
of electronic applications.
Signal Integrity
Our ferrite-based product family preserves 
high quality signal integrity by removing 
and ﬁltering unwanted or harmful 
electromagnetic ‘noise’ generated by 
active components such as oscillators and 
microprocessors, as well as EMI escaping 
from any electronic product through DC 
(direct current) power lines.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
6 Wireless Systems
What we do
Laird designs, manufactures and supplies a broad 
range of products, systems, and software solutions that 
enable wireless communication such as antennae, 
embedded wireless modules, telematics products, M2M 
devices, wireless automation and control systems, along 
with software solutions to support asset management 
systems across a broad range of markets.
Markets
Our Wireless Systems products are supplied to a wide 
range of customers requiring reliable connectivity 
solutions in the automotive, rail, ﬂeet management, 
industrial, telecom, WLAN, public safety, medical and 
mining markets. 
1. Transportation 58%
2. Industrial 21%
3. IT/Telecom 17%
4. Other 4%
Revenue by market segment
1
3
4
2
Revenue
+5% (2011, £186.3 million)
£1 95.5 million
Our products explained
Telematics/M2M
We design and manufacture industry-
leading smart antennae solutions, combining 
advanced, low-proﬁle antennae with wireless 
radios, I/O circuitry and ﬁrmware to enable 
applications from asset tracking to pay-as-
you-drive insurance, from ﬂeet management 
to theft recovery.
Wireless Automation and Control 
The high-reliability wireless remote control 
systems that we design and supply, serve 
the railroad, mining, and industrial markets 
globally. These remote control systems are 
speciﬁcally designed for any equipment 
where the operator can remotely operate the 
asset from a safer location. We also provide 
fully hosted networked applications software 
that enables customers to monitor their 
remote controlled assets in real-time.
Infrastructure Antennae
We provide high performance indoor and 
outdoor antennae solutions. In-building 
wireless antennae are particularly applicable 
in environments where aesthetics and 
wide angle coverage are necessary for 
successful wireless deployment. Their 
small size allows them to be hidden almost 
anywhere, providing an invisible solution 
for most applications.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
7 Overview
Laird’s operations
North America
 10%
of employees
North America 
See the case study  
on page 16
Where we operate
Our global footprint covers 18 countries across ﬁve continents. 
Our operations range from research and development and 
manufacturing to after-sales support. Our operations are 
strategically positioned to allow us to be close to our customers
1. EMI Shielding 43%
2. Thermal 14%
3. Signal Integrity 5%
4. Telematics/
Wireless modules 22%
5. Infrastructure Antennae 8%
6. Wireless Automation
and Control 8%
1
5
6
2
3
4
Revenue by product segment
1. Asia 47%
2. North America 36%
3. Europe 14%
4. UK 2%
5. RoW 1%
1 5 4
3
2
Revenue by destination
1. IT/Telecom 28%
2. Industrial 11%
3. Transportation 25%
4. Medical 3%
5. Handsets 16%
6. Other 11%
7. Consumer 6%
1
7
6
2
3
4
5
Revenue by market segment
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
8 Europe
 9%
of employees
Asia Paciﬁc
 81%
of employees
India 
Asia 
See the case study  
on page 18
See the case study  
on page 10
Worldwide employee headcount 9,078
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
9 Case study


In 2012, we expanded our EMI board level 
shielding at facilities in China.
The capacity expansion was completed on time, 
allowing us to raise output signiﬁcantly to meet 
customer deadlines for new product launches.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
10 Chief Executive’s strategic review
Selling value, not price
David Lockwood Chief Executive
 “Laird sells value not price.”
The value that Laird sells is embedded in three 
strategic differentiators – innovation, reliable 
fulﬁlment and speed. These differentiators 
resonate with customers and enable the Group 
to create and capture value. 
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
11 Business review
How will you measure your  
strategic progress?
Within Laird, we ensure our internal strategic measures match with 
our external strategic targets. At the Group, divisional and business 
unit level, our targets for revenue growth, margin improvement 
and customer diversiﬁcation are all aligned to ensure that what we 
have committed externally to the outside world is what we also 
measure internally.
Where do you see the greatest 
opportunities for growth across  
both the Performance Materials  
and Wireless Systems divisions?
We have many diverse opportunities in both the Performance 
Materials and the Wireless Systems divisions. 
Within Performance Materials, there is great scope to grow our 
customer base geographically and to grow in new market sectors, 
whilst adding complementary capabilities to ensure we meet 
the full scope of our customers’ needs. The division focuses on 
selling value not price and targets markets that exhibit long-term 
structural growth. 
The Wireless Systems division operates in a market that is less mature 
than that of the Performance Materials division and therefore faces 
a broader range of strategic options. There is the opportunity to 
move further into sub-system applications (customising ﬁrmware 
and software) and work more collaboratively across our different 
businesses. There are a number of emerging trends in our core 
markets that will create the opportunity for us to grow our scope 
of supply.
How will you fund your strategy  
for growth?
Laird is an inherently cash-generative business. That, combined with 
the strength of our balance sheet, allows us to fund our ambitions for 
investment in R&D, market development and bolt-on acquisitions, 
and at the same time allows us to reafﬁrm our dividend commitment.
Have you already identiﬁed the new 
market segments and geographies you 
want Laird to enter going forward?
Laird has opportunities across both geographic and sectoral markets. 
We have analysed those sectors and geographies by the addressable 
market and our current presence within them. 
Growth markets for our existing businesses include China, Korea and 
Northern Europe, notably Germany. To deploy our business model 
we will ensure that, over time, we grow our engineering presence in 
these selected markets. Similarly, there are major opportunities for 
cross-marketing, taking the full Laird portfolio to existing customers 
or a particular business. Finally, there are attractive adjacent 
markets where our existing customers can provide testament to 
our credentials.
A video of this interview is available to view online at www.laird-plc.com
Chief Executive’s strategic review
Q&A with David Lockwood
David Lockwood, Chief Executive, answers 
questions put to him regarding the 
Company’s strategy
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
12 Chief Executive’s strategic review
Strategy
Laird’s vision is a world where smart technology enables 
virtually everything to sense, think and communicate; 
transforming our way of life and empowering us to do 
more than we can imagine today
Laird creates value by being a trusted partner to our customers, 
delivering useful technology through innovation, reliable fulﬁlment, 
and speed.
A common focus throughout Laird’s diverse product range is reﬂected 
in the value we deliver to our customers. Laird’s products and 
solutions are typically a small, but critical part of the large systems for 
which they are designed. Our customers have neither the extensive 
resources nor time to be experts in, or develop advanced solutions 
in, antenae systems, EMI shielding, or thermal management. Design 
in these areas, however, tends to be vital to the performance and 
protection of the ﬁnal product ensuring that these solutions are 
continually being engineered away from commoditisation. Laird 
is able to not only provide the innovation and collaborative design 
necessary to bring the most advanced technology, but also to deliver 
this in a ﬂawless fashion and at market-pacing speeds. Our customers 
depend on Laird to make sure their products incorporate state-of-the-
art technologies and function beyond expectation. 
Customer 
Mindshare
Speed 
Reliable Fulﬁlment 
Innovation 
Our differentiation
Innovation in new capabilities and 
collaborative design
As a partner in designing communication and electronics protection 
solutions, Laird must deliver new technology to our customers. This 
includes the use of the latest material innovations in areas such as 
metal alloys and polymer composites; new process capabilities like 
automated assembly and antennae designed through artiﬁcial 
intelligence; and new applications expertise including interconnects 
and high-noise RF communications. Laird is able to bring these broad 
palettes of solutions to customers across all its market segments. 
We are committed to technology innovation, demonstrated by our 
sustained level of R&D investment. (See KPIs on pages 24 and 25).
Reliable fulﬁlment means providing the 
highest levels of delivery, quality, safety, 
and compliance
Regardless of how novel or advanced Laird’s designs and capabilities 
are, the cost of any error in delivering the products to customers can 
far exceed the value of the design. Beyond simply being a conﬁdent 
choice for our customers, Laird also brings high levels of business 
reliability and security. By having processes and systems in place 
and through driving a culture of performance and risk management, 
Laird can ensure that it delivers reliably for customers.
Our speed allows our customers to exceed 
expectations in launching their products
Laird’s customers often face rapid product launch cycles. Competition 
along with business and consumer expectations is relentlessly driving 
compression of these timelines. Complementing the innovative 
solutions and assured delivery of our products, Laird drives market-
pacing speed through the design and delivery cycle. From product 
development timelines to initial customer engagements involving 
design iterations, prototypes and quotes through scale-up and 
production ramps, Laird offers more than being faster than other 
suppliers. We set the pace and exceed the expectations of the 
market. Our customers respond by adapting their product cycles to 
take advantage of Laird’s capabilities further setting the Company 
apart from the rest of the pack and reinforcing Laird’s position as a 
critical design partner.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
13 Business review
Growth through strategic acquisition
As Laird pursues its strategy to win customer mindshare, a number 
of opportunities arise to acquire capabilities or market access in new 
business areas that ﬁt the overall strategic direction. As the Wireless 
Systems division seeks to add value through the management of 
information, new software and applications will be vital to allow us 
to expand our available market. The Performance Materials division 
will look to add new product and technology groups to its portfolio of 
capabilities, bringing even more value to customers and allow further 
access to new market segments and regions of the world. 
Our strong balance sheet allows us the opportunity to pursue further 
acquisition opportunities (see Financial KPIs on pages 24 and 25 
(Net Debt: EBITDA and cash generation)). 
Customer diversiﬁcation 
We have built up long-standing relationships with our larger 
customers, developing alongside them. Our strategy is to remain 
diversiﬁed, serving a broad customer base across different market 
segments and geographies.
We understand the global trends driving growth in the wider market, 
such as changing energy requirements and ubiquitous connectivity. 
Our aim is to ensure we serve a wide range of customers across these 
high-growth market sectors.
Chief Executive’s strategic review
Strategy
Delivering against our strategy
Our Business Model drives our teams constantly to review the proﬁle 
of our businesses and direct strategic decisions, whilst our targets 
emphasise our strategic ambitions.
We have set targets that benchmark our progress, and in 2012, 
we have improved operating margin, despite a lower growth 
environment. We remain conﬁdent that we are positioned in the right 
markets for organic growth over the medium to long-term, and this 
will drive further proﬁt improvement. In support of our organic growth 
ambitions we are increasing investment in targeted innovation and 
market entry strategies.
Internally, we are rolling out an enhanced programme of governance 
which will bring beneﬁts in 2013, and will ensure our risk mitigation 
and identiﬁcation processes are much closer aligned to our strategy. 
(The risk framework is explained more in the Governance section on 
pages 53 and 54.)
Strategic outlook
In 2012, signiﬁcant progress has been made to focus 
the Company on its three primary sources of sustainable 
differentiation – innovation, reliable fulﬁlment and speed. These 
are also the qualities that are most valued by Laird’s customers.
The Company sells into global market segments with attractive 
growth prospects. This, together with Laird’s clear strategic focus 
and increase in investment, provides a good platform from which 
to deliver its medium to long-term targets.
We expect ﬁrst quarter revenues to be at a similar level to last 
year as we continue to see the impact of our exit from lower 
margin business and as customers adjust inventory in their 
supply chains. We expect revenues to be weighted towards the 
second half of the year, as a result of our and our customers’ 
product launches and seasonal factors, and we are conﬁdent of 
making good progress in 2013.
The Group has a strong balance sheet and demonstrable cash 
generation characteristics to fund further acquisitions, and drive 
further value for shareholders by enhancing Laird’s capabilities 
and market access.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
14 Thought leadership
A smart world allows people the freedom 
they increasingly require to work remotely.
Not only can people work from home, but 
employees can move around their ofﬁce 
or different company locations, accessing 
documents and emails with ease.
The rise in remote working will not only 
drive technology sales but have a cultural 
impact on the way people interact with one 
another. Companies are moving towards a 
‘bring your own device’ paradigm which will 
enable easier and more efﬁcient business 
while travelling. Opportunities will arise, 
driven by this paradigm shift, for product 
and services supporting security, network 
backbone and storage.
In the past, companies have tended to 
refresh their IT infrastructure equipment 
periodically or in line with regular 
budget cycles. Some companies are now 
encouraging employees to use portable 
equipment, such as tablets, and purchasing 
these more frequently to reﬂect the latest 
innovation in technology. 
Liberating work from the workplace 
implies access to information wherever 
and whenever, enabled by a variety of 
go-anywhere devices. Laird’s continuing 
innovation in Wireless Systems and 
Performance Materials underpins the 
mobile workplace. Laird is a market leader 
in wireless infrastructure, in-vehicle systems 
and radio modules that enable mobile 
connectivity, and our shielding, thermal 
management, power storage and signal 
integrity solutions are relied upon in 
smaller, lighter and faster mobile devices. 
Laird does not just beneﬁt from the trend 
towards mobile work, Laird helps to shape it. 
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
15 STOCK IMAGE
Case study
Increasing use of mobile data can be 
a challenge, especially in environments 
such as stadia where tens of thousands of 
people demand connected Wi-Fi. Not only 
do stadia have to cater to users, they need 
to maintain connectivity for business use 
such as point of sale and ticket scanning.
Laird’s Wi-Fi modules are embedded into 
ticket scanners and point of sale machines 
in a growing number of stadia such as the 
Gillette Stadium, home of the New England 
Patriots, allowing devices to maintain Wi-Fi 
reliability with enterprise-grade security. 
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
16 Throughout the year, we have worked to 
enhance our business and reﬁne our Business 
Model, including internal changes which have 
enabled much closer working practices across 
the whole organisation
How we do business
Business Model
Division enables 
BU-Company 
and Cross-BU 
interaction
Company roles
& responsibility
Business unit roles
& responsibility
Market development
New segments to Laird
New geographies to Laird
Adjacent segments
Cross business unit
Core business
Customer and product 
focused growth
Existing PRODUCT New
Mergers & acquisitions
New Laird business
New geographic expansion
Business unit strategic
Technology development
Organic business development
New business unit products
Existing MARKET New
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
17 Business review
Laird’s base business is built around several growing core market areas 
including smartphones, automotive, medical, IT and infrastructure. 
Additionally, we have identiﬁed numerous opportunities to grow and 
develop our business. Laird is making investments in new products and 
technologies, maintaining and emphasising our innovative edge with 
our customers. The proliferation and globalisation of electronics and 
communications into new applications and geographies create new 
market opportunities for Laird’s products. 
Maintaining our strong position in 
high growth segments
Laird has earned the trust and partnership of some of the world’s 
leading companies. As the proliferation of technology expands 
throughout the world, we will continue to engage in collaborative 
design and high levels of speed and service, ensuring that our 
businesses grow along with our customers. More and more people 
throughout the world have access to these new technologies creating 
ever-expanding opportunities for our customers and therefore 
our products.
Growth through new technology 
(as illustrated on the horizontal axis of the Business Model on page 17)
Developing and acquiring new capabilities remains a vital part of 
Laird’s strategy. We develop and use new materials, we incorporate 
new processes including not only manufacturing processes, but also 
business development capabilities such as the fast turnaround of 
advanced prototypes, and automated design tools that facilitate 
more efﬁcient and high quality engineering. The continual addition 
of new areas of expertise enables Laird to provide an expanded 
product portfolio. Some examples of our new product areas 
include the expansion of materials for EMI protection into electrical 
interconnects, and electronics sealing and venting. Software 
development to extract valuable information from our wireless 
systems for areas like medical asset tracking or rail safety and 
predictive maintenance represents a substantial area of expertise 
expansion in Laird. We are making signiﬁcant investments in 
new technology including Nextreme
TM
 thin ﬁlm thermoelectrics, 
LairdLink
TM
 data management systems, advanced assembly 
automation, new tunable RF materials, and polymeric chip level 
thermal interfaces.
India IT operations 
During 2012 we concentrated on building 
a Corporate IT team in Bangalore to service 
our wider organisation.
The availability of a skilled, local IT talent 
pool in Bangalore has allowed us to expand 
our IT department in India from three to 
18 employees, providing a cost effective 
service to the Group’s global operations.
How we do business
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
18 Growth in new markets 
(as illustrated on the vertical axis of the Business Model on page 17)
As the proliferation of electronics and wireless connectivity extends 
into almost every aspect of life, additional applications and 
geographies are opening up for Laird. Traditional markets including 
computing, telecoms and internet infrastructure, and consumer 
electronics are shifting all the time to new applications requiring 
new devices. As people become more and more familiar with these 
devices, technology uses open up in the more traditional elements 
of life and industry allowing for innovation in areas not traditionally 
associated with information technology. Medical devices, lighting 
systems, vehicles, electrical distribution, and even industrial 
machinery are all advancing by incorporating intelligent systems 
and connectivity. Along with the proliferation of uses of electronics, 
global access to the technology we enable drives a signiﬁcant portion 
of the growth. Consumers are not only emerging in the traditional 
high-population areas such as China, India, and Brazil, but consumers 
and infrastructure builds are also expanding in areas like Africa, South 
East Asia and the Middle East.
Company and business unit roles
Laird’s business units are focused on supporting existing customers 
and products while pursuing roadmaps of new product development 
and expansion of current capabilities into new markets. These 
business units are the entrepreneurial engines of growth, staying 
very close to the customers in developing, selling, and making our 
products. The role of the Company as a whole is to afford these 
fast moving and adaptable businesses the systems and beneﬁts of 
a large organisation. Company functions like ﬁnance, information 
technology, human resources and risk management are designed 
to provide expertise, shared services and policy, and oversight to the 
business units.
Product innovation

ﬁller, Tputty 506

to increase from six tonnes per year to 15 
tonnes per year
Innovation example
Existing PRODUCT New
X
Existing MARKET New
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
19 Business review
WACS/CattronConnect™ 
software
 ﬁ






 ﬁ







 ﬁ









 ﬁ





Examples of our market driven innovation, which reﬂect our focus on being customer engaged and market led.
Thermal thin-ﬁlm energy 
harvesting
Automated EMI assembly 
process
Artiﬁcial Intelligence 
Optimizer
Market driven innovation
Cross-marketing across business units

range of Laird’s product offering

and entry into new markets
Existing PRODUCT New
X
Existing MARKET New
How we do business












Collaboration example
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
20 Case study
Laird is working with an international leader 
in high performance sound systems in the 
home and for automotive entertainment.
Laird’s thermal management and EMI 
shielding eliminated buzzing and humming 
which is an example of our collaborative 
working across business units.
21
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC Business review
Independent view

We approached Prismark, the 
electronics industry consulting ﬁrm, 
to provide us with an independent 
view on market trends in the sectors 
we serve and macroeconomic factors 
affecting growth in these areas.
Macro factors
The electronics industry has now ﬁnished its second consecutive 
soft year with many applications, supply chain segments, and 
geographies experiencing stagnation, if not modest declines. Despite 
the overall environment, selected applications (smartphones, tablet 
PCs and automotive electronics) delivered strong growth and this 
performance is forecast to continue. As a consequence of the gradual 
maturation of the electronics industry, growth will be increasingly tied 
to either high-function portable electronics (smartphones, tablets, 
ultrabooks, and associated infrastructure equipment) or green 
energy (LEDs, PV, energy efﬁcient transportation, and smart grid). 
The balance of the electronics industry will struggle to match the 
growth of global GDP . More than perhaps at any time in its history, 
success in the electronics industry is dependent on a focus on the 
right segments and customers.
Smartphones
Although its deﬁnition has evolved, the smartphone has been a part 
of the communications segment for more than 1 5 years. This segment 
was ﬁrst brought to prominence by the success of the BlackBerry™ in 
the late- 1 990s, transformed by the emergence of the iPhone in 2007 , 
followed quickly by Android™ and, most recently, Windows Mobile 
platforms™. The success of the smartphone has transformed the mobile 
phone market, driving unit growth and increasing average selling prices. 
Smartphones now dominate the overall mobile phone market from 
both a revenue and proﬁt perspective. 
Computing
Like the mobile phone market, the computing sector has been 
transformed by the emergence of high-function portable systems – 
the tablet and Ultrabook
TM
. Although only introduced in 2010, tablets 
grew to almost 25 % of the overall computing market in 2012 and 
are forecast to equal the shipments of conventional notebook PCs 
by 2016. The Ultrabook
TM
 standard established by Intel in partial 
response to the rise of the tablet, while only two years old, is the 
fastest growing segment of the notebook market. By 2016, these two 
new classes of ultra-portable PCs will have grown to represent 50% 
of the overall PC market, with conventional desktop and notebook 
markets close to ﬂat.
Computing and communications 
infrastructure 
Computing and communications infrastructure has been a beneﬁciary 
of the growth of smartphones, tablets and other connected devices. 
Infrastructure investment has been supported by both increased 
volumes of servers and storage (i.e. building the cloud) and by the 
drive to increase bandwidth, most particularly enhanced wireless 
connectivity and required backhaul (e.g. L TE build-out). Both elements 
of this transition are evidence of a long-term trend toward distributed 
storage and computing serving a growing number of interconnected 
people and objects. Although the growth of infrastructure spending 
is blunted by reduced system costs, this will remain one of the 
moderately more attractive segments of the electronics industry.
Market drivers
World Trends
Remote working  
Green economy  
Ageing societies
Global Thinking
Economic shift  
New customers  
Pace of change
Smart World
Convergence  
Complexity  
Reliability
Innovative Technology
Infrastructure  
New materials  
Performance
22
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consumer electronics
Consumer electronics has been one of the lagging segments of 
the electronics industry over the past ﬁve years and there is little 
to suggest that this pattern will change. The relative stagnation 
of the consumer segment has two roots. The ﬁrst is the weakness 
of traditional markets such as the TV. The boost provided by large 
format HDTVs during the early years of the 21st century has now 
ended owing to continued price erosion, relative market saturation, 
and the lack of features capable of motivating replacement demand. 
The other factor reducing consumer electronics growth is the steady 
erosion of traditional applications by the smartphone and tablet. 
These multifunctional devices along with ubiquitous broadband have 
blunted demand for historically important consumer systems (e.g. 
digital cameras, MP3 players, DVD players and game systems). These 
trends are likely to continue and the consumer segment will struggle 
to exceed the growth of global GDP .
Transportation
Transportation has been a relative bright spot within the electronics 
industry, producing stronger growth during the past several years 
than in the preceding 15. This relative strength has several roots. 
The ﬁrst and most important is the increase in vehicle production, 
driven by pent-up demand in the developed world as well as growing 
demand in China, India, and the rest of Asia. Transportation 
electronics has also beneﬁted from an increase in electronics 
content per vehicle, the result of regulatory action (e.g. tyre pressure 
monitoring) as well as increased focus on fuel efﬁciency (e.g. hybrid/
electric). Automotive electronics will be one of the stronger segments 
of the electronics industry over the next four years, delivering annual 
growth of between 7% and 9% annually.
Industrial
Industrial electronics has long been a catch-all, including systems not 
counted elsewhere and possessing few large deﬁning applications. 
Over the past two years the industrial segment has declined owing 
largely to strong price erosion in the photovoltaics segment. Over 
the next several years the industrial segment is forecast to grow 
at a 7% – 8 % average annual rate. This growth is the result of 
the recovery of the photovoltaics segment, as well as other green 
energy focused developments (e.g. LED lighting, advanced motor 
controllers, smart-grid build-out), many of which are counted in the 
industrial segment.
Medical
The medical electronics market is diverse, including both capital 
equipment purchased by physicians and medical groups (e.g. MRI) 
as well as devices targeted to consumers (e.g. blood glucose 
measurement). The macro drivers for the medical electronics segment 
remain strong: ageing populations in the developed world, increasing 
incomes in developing nations, as well as the increasing role of 
electronics in medical diagnostics, monitoring and therapy. Capping 
the growth of medical electronics is an increasing focus on cost 
containment, most notably within the important US market. As a 
result of these competing factors the medical sector is forecast to 
deliver 4 % – 5 % average annual growth over the next several years.
Data and text provided by Prismark, January 2013
Global mobile data trafﬁc 
Exabytes per month, from 2011-2016 Smartphone and tablet share gains




 +13.7%
 +13.2%
 +49.0%
 +3.5%
 +8.8%
 +3.5%
Total 1,607 .0 2,069.0 +6.5%
CAAGR 2012-2016
1
2 3 4
6
5
1
2
3
6
5
4
Data
File Sharing
Video
VoIP
Gaming
M2M
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
11 12 13 14 15 16


trafﬁc in 2016

201 1–2016



2012 2016
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
23
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC Business review
Key Performance  
Indicators
These Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are both ﬁnancial 
and non-ﬁnancial and are a measure of how we achieve progress 
within the business and how we remain focused on growth, 
ﬁnancial discipline and being a good corporate citizen for our 
employees and the environments in which we work
The external targets we set out in July 201 1 are not speciﬁcally expressed here but sit alongside these KPIs.
Revenue expressed in US Dollars ($m)
Deﬁned as: Current and prior years’ 
revenue expressed in US Dollars
Rationale: The majority of Laird’s 
revenues are in US Dollars, or in 
currencies linked to the US Dollar 
Return on capital employed (%)
Deﬁned as: Underlying proﬁt before 
interest and tax expressed as a % of 
the average capital employed for the 
Group over the year
Rationale: Provides an indication of 
how Laird is performing relative to 
peers and against its cost of capital
Underlying proﬁt before tax (£m)
Deﬁned as: Proﬁt before tax, stated 
before exceptional items, the 
amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets, the gain or loss on disposal of 
businesses, the impact arising from 
the fair valuing of ﬁnancial 
instruments and acquisition 
transaction costs
Rationale: The Board believes this to 
be a consistent measure of 
performance
Expenditure on R&D as a % of revenue
Deﬁned as: Expenditure on research 
and development before capitalised 
development as a % of revenue
Rationale: Measures the investment 
in research and development, 
demonstrating Laird’s commitment to 
innovation to drive growth
Effective tax rate (%)
Deﬁned as: Underlying tax charge 
expressed as a % of underlying proﬁt 
before tax
Rationale: An effective measure of 
the tax cost of doing business across 
the globe
Deﬁned as: Underlying proﬁt after 
tax, divided by the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during 
the year
Rationale: Underlying earnings 
attributable to each share
Driving proﬁtable growth
Investing in our business
Underlying EPS (pence)
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
020 40 60 80 100
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
05 10 15 20 25
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
05 10 15 20 25 30
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
0 5 10 15
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
0 2 4 6 8 10
(Comparative ﬁgures for Discontinued Operations have been restated for 2011 only)
(Comparative ﬁgures for Discontinued Operations have been restated for 2011 only)
(Comparative ﬁgures for Discontinued Operations have been restated for 2011 only)
Continuing Discontinued
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
24 CO
2
 emissions (tonnes/£1 million of revenue)
Deﬁned as: Greenhouse gas 
emissions (calculated by applying 
speciﬁc factors to power consumption) 
expressed as a proportion of revenue 
Rationale: Laird looks to minimise 
the environmental impact of 
its operations
Electricity consumption (kWh/£1 million of revenue)
Deﬁned as: Total energy 
consumption for the Group in kWh, 
expressed as a proportion of revenue 
Rationale: Measures energy 
utilisation
Waste to landﬁll (tonnes/£1 million of revenue)
Deﬁned as: Total waste to landﬁll sites 
expressed as a proportion of revenue 
Rationale: Measures waste 
management
Reportable accidents (per 100 employees annualised)
Deﬁned as: Reportable accidents 
expressed per 100 employees 
annualised
Rationale: Monitors safety by 
recording the incidence and causes 
of accidents that result in medical 
attention or lost time or restricted duty
Being a good corporate citizen
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
0 20 40 60 80 100
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
0 0.2 0.6 0.4 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
0 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.25
Operating cash conversion (%)
Deﬁned as: Operating cash ﬂow 
expressed as a % of underlying 
operating proﬁt before interest and tax
Rationale: Measures cash generation 
and Laird’s capacity to pay dividends 
and service debt
Net debt: EBITDA
Deﬁned as: Ratio of Group net debt 
to underlying proﬁt before interest, 
tax, depreciation and amortisation as 
deﬁned in Laird’s banking covenants
Rationale: Conﬁrms compliance to 
the covenant (maximum of 3.5 times) 
and indicates extent of headroom
Interest cover (times)
Deﬁned as: Ratio of underlying proﬁt 
before interest and tax to the annual 
interest charge within the income 
statement, as deﬁned by the banking 
covenants
Rationale: Conﬁrms compliance to 
covenant (minimum of 3.0 times) and 
indicates extent of headroom
Maintaining ﬁnancial discipline/strength
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
0 40 80 120 160
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
0 2 4 6 8 10 12
(Comparative ﬁgures for Discontinued Operations have been restated for 2011 only)
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
25 Increasingly, devices used in the medical 
world require secure and reliable 
connections to hospital Wi-Fi networks. 
Hospital environments present many 
challenges to reliable Wi-Fi connectivity, 
especially for devices that are mobile, 
but Laird has a reputation for providing 
solutions to overcome these difﬁculties.
Having used Laird Wi-Fi compact ﬂash 
cards in its portable cardiographs for 
several years, a leading medical device 
company has adopted Laird embedded  
Wi-Fi modules on several ‘vital signs’ 
patient monitors. There is further 
opportunity to install the modules on 
other devices. 


Case study
26
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Performance Materials division has the 
ambition to ‘own the electronic environment’ . 
At the heart of all the sectors the division serves 
are printed circuit boards (PCBs) that require 
controlled and stable conditions to deliver the 
intelligence that the modern world requires. 
The division has a unique portfolio of capabilities 
which enables it to work in collaboration with its 
customers to create design options the customer 
could not have foreseen if it were acting alone. 
The Wireless Systems division ‘enables wireless 
communication’ . The customers of this division 
operate in sectors requiring high performance 
and high reliability. Equally importantly, those 
customers are restricted by crowded and 
challenging radio frequency (transmission 
and interference) (RF) environments. Whether 
through antenna systems, wireless modules 
or machine to machine (M2M) solutions, the 
division is trusted by the major OEMs it serves 
to ensure the customer’s total system will be 
securely connected.
This is best analysed by looking in more detail 
at the performance of each division.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
27 Operating review
Performance Materials
Year ended 31 December
2012  
£m
201 1  
£m
Revenue 324.7 305.0 +6 %
Underlying operating proﬁt 48.9 43.0 + 14 %
Operating margin 15. 1% 14. 1 %
The division designs and supplies a full range of electromagnetic 
interference (EMI) shielding materials, thermal management 
solutions and signal integrity products (SIP), providing critical 
protection for a wide range of electronic devices, allowing them 
to function and connect effectively. These products isolate and 
protect sensitive electronic components and systems from the 
electronic emissions from other components, and ﬁlter and remove 
electromagnetic ‘noise’ and improve a device’s performance through 
the efﬁcient management of heat.
Divisional revenues increased by 6 % in 2012 to £324.7 million (201 1, 
£305.0 million). Organic revenue growth was 1 % (201 1, 9% ).
By product line, the majority of the divisional revenues (69% ) in 
2012 were from EMI shielding materials, with 22% from thermal 
management solutions and 9% from signal integrity products.
By market segment, 25 % of the division’s revenues were from sales 
of EMI shielding materials to the Handset (smartphone) market, 
18% were from shielding and thermal solutions used in the IT 
market, 1 7% from the telecoms market, with the balance from the 
automotive, consumer, industrial, medical and military markets.
Underlying operating proﬁt in the division increased 14 % in the 
year to £48.9 million (201 1, £43.0 million), and operating margin 
increased to 15. 1 % in 2012 from 14. 1 % in 201 1. Improvements in 
proﬁt resulted mainly from higher margin products and an ongoing, 
successful Continuous Improvement Programme which creates value 
for both Laird and its customers.
EMI
Revenue in the Company’s EMI shielding business was up 1 1 % year 
on year, driven by the substantial increase in sales of electromagnetic 
shielding components for smartphone and tablet products. To meet 
strong demand levels in this market, further capacity was added in 
China during the year, from which the initial beneﬁt was seen in the 
second half of 2012. The EMI business is expected to continue to 
beneﬁt from this increased capacity throughout 2013.
Revenue 
£324.7 million 
+6% (2011, £305.0 million)
Underlying operating proﬁt 
£48.9 million
+14% (2011, £43.0 million)
Operating margin 
1 5.1% 
(2011, 14.1%)
1. IT/Telecom 35%
2. Handset 25%
3. Other 23%
8%
5. Medical 5%
6. Transportation 4%
1. EMI 69%
2. Thermal 22%
3. Signal Integrity 9%
Revenue by product segment
Revenue by market segment
1
3
2
4. Consumer
1
6
5
4
3
2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
28 Performance Materials innovation 
examples:
T pcm 780 thin thermal interface material with 
world-leading thermal transfer capability that helps 
keep microprocessors cool
Superior Ferrite Plate used in wireless power charging 
applications
Stainless steel ﬁnger stock used in switches, routers and 
servers (lower cost than copper-based material)
Nextreme™ thin ﬁlm, semiconductor-based cooling device 
which allows for ultra small devices, highest cooling density 
and fastest response for applications like digital cameras, 
lasers and DNA analysis
Robotic assembly which allows part tolerance, speed and 
for designs not possible with manual assembly. This is used 
for production of small parts for smartphones and tablets
Materials





Technology
Processes






Operations
Expertise





Applications
Move up customer 
mindshare
Sales
Solve Problems 
Set Speciﬁcation
Standard Parts
Request for Quote
Up-Front Design 
Unique to Laird
Shared Roadmap 
Market Driver
Expanding capabilities: Performance Materials
The telecoms market remained subdued due to lower infrastructure 
spend and EMI shielding revenues were 19% lower than in 201 1 for 
this segment. Furthermore, demand was much lower for plasma 
display panel shielding as consumers continue to favour liquid 
crystal displays. 
New contract wins in 2012 have included providing EMI solutions 
for eReaders (which provide both new customers and a new 
product market for Laird) and providing EMI shielding and thermal 
management in entertainment products used in the automotive 
market.
In March, Laird announced the acquisition of Microwave Materials 
Group NV, a global leader in the development and manufacture of 
microwave absorbing materials, low-loss dielectrics and electrically 
conductive shielding materials. This added to Laird’s existing EMI 
shielding and absorber product range for higher frequency, more 
powerful electronic devices and allows Laird to offer customers a 
more comprehensive range of shielding solutions. Laird will leverage 
its strong Asian footprint to expand Microwave Materials Group NV 
revenues beyond its home markets in the US and Europe.
Thermal
Revenue in the Thermal business was down by 8% year on year. 
The Thermal business’s key market segments include telecoms, 
IT and medical. As within the EMI business, the telecoms market 
remained subdued due to lower infrastructure spend which led to 
reduced demand for thermoelectric coolers.
The thermal interface materials Laird provides however, saw the 
beneﬁt from the upgrading of PCBs used in telecoms equipment as 
well as increased thermal content in new base stations installed to 
support 4G. 
SIP
The SIP product line serves customers in the IT and printer market 
where revenue from this business has increased by 2% year on year.
As electronic devices continue to evolve, with greater requirements 
for higher power and speed, the solutions Laird provides to protect 
and enhance each device’s performance remain critical for customers 
and their markets.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
29 Operating review
Wireless Systems
Year ended 31 December
2012  
£m
201 1  
£m
Revenue 195.5 186.3 + 5 %
Underlying operating proﬁt 25.8 22.7 + 14 %
Operating margin 13.2% 12.2 %
Laird designs and supplies a range of telematics and infrastructure 
antennae products, M2M wireless modules and software-enabled 
wireless control systems, used in a broad range of markets 
including wireless infrastructure, automotive, asset management, 
transportation, industrial, mining, datacom, medical and 
retail markets. 
Divisional revenues increased by 5 % in 2012 to £195.5 million (201 1, 
£186.3 million). Revenue on an organic basis was 1 % lower (201 1, 
18% higher).
By product line, Telematics/M2M accounted for 57% of divisional 
revenues in 2012, with 22% from Wireless Automation and Control 
Solutions, and 21 % from Infrastructure Antennae Solutions.
By market segment, 58% of the division’s revenues were from 
the automotive/transportation market. 19% were from industrial 
applications, 16 % from the telecom sector, with the balance coming 
from other markets such as consumer and IT.
The division’s underlying operating proﬁt increased 14 % in the year 
to £25.8 million (201 1, £22.7 million). Operating margin increased 
from 12.2% in 201 1 to 13.2% in 2012, with the margin advancement 
driven by improvements from vertical integration and further product 
rationalisation in Telematics/M2M solutions.
Telematics/M2M
Revenues in the Telematics/M2M business, net of acquisitions, were 
7% lower year on year. End-market demand remained robust in the 
North American automotive market but comparisons with the prior 
year are distorted due to inventory ownership changes in 201 1 which 
led to a one-time increase in revenue that year. 
During the year major new automotive contracts were won 
which will deliver beneﬁts in 2014 and beyond, and include new 
GPS applications.
Revenue 
£ 1 95.5 million
+5% (2011, £186.3 million)
Underlying operating proﬁt 
£25.8 million
+14% (2011, £22.7 million)
Operating margin 
1 3.2% 
(2011, 12.2%)
1. Telematics/M2M 57%
2. WACS 22%
3. Infrastructure & other
 antennae 21%
Revenue by product segment
Revenue by market segment
1
3
2
1. Transportation 58%
2. Industrial 21%
3. IT/Telecom 17%
4. Other 4%
1
3
4
2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
30 Wireless Systems innovation examples:
CMD69473 LTE MIMO indoor broadband ceiling mount 
antenna for use in ofﬁces/airports
Wireless Bridge (WB) enterprise-grade connectivity 
subsystem module for use in hospital medical devices
Smart LTE MIMO antenna for use in automotive global 
navigation satellite systems
BLE600 Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) modules enabling 
short range wireless connectivity for ultra-low power sensor 
applications – innovated in 201 2 to be ofﬁcially launched in 
early 201 3
Expand addressable 
market
Enter new markets
Strengthen value position
Position key customers
Expanding capabilities: Wireless Systems
Products/devices



Application/services



Systems


Partnerships



Steps were taken during the year to rationalise the product portfolio 
to exit lower margin, standardised product areas in accordance with 
Laird’s strategy of differentiation. This resulted in lower revenue in 
the area of asset tracking, but leaves the business well positioned 
to focus on more proﬁtable products and faster-growing segments 
going forward. 
The acquisition of Summit added to Laird’s existing capabilities to 
offer non-cellular M2M modules in Wi-Fi to enable wireless systems 
to function in particularly harsh RF environments, such as in factories, 
warehouses and hospitals.
Wireless Automation and 
Control Solutions
Wireless Automation and Control Solutions’ industrial and 
transportation markets have been less robust, as some replacement 
rail programmes were deferred in 2012, particularly in North America, 
with revenues 6 % lower. After-market services revenues were solid. 
Demand is increasing for more comprehensive wireless networking 
with diagnostic software, which should command higher margins. 
Infrastructure Antennae
Revenue from the Infrastructure Antennae Systems business 
was 25 % higher as a result of a sustained level of demand across 
multiple market segments, including WLAN, RFID, cellular networks 
and public safety. This demand has been driven by the continuing 
need for increased bandwidth and coverage required to make 
use of smartphones and other connected devices. This business 
also experienced good demand for antennae used within gaming 
consoles in the consumer entertainment market. 
The demand for increased connectivity in everyday life is expected 
to accelerate. More advanced solutions are being required as 
the industry evolves, which in turn creates sustained demand for 
Laird’s products and systems. The rise of ‘infotainment’ in the 
automotive industry, the proliferation of wireless connectivity 
within public infrastructure, and the provision for 4G in the telecoms 
market all contribute to the increasing demand for Laird’s products 
and solutions. 
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
31 Operating review
Corporate Social Responsibility
Our focus is on being a good corporate citizen within 
the communities in which we operate. Our priority 
is on upholding the highest ethical standards in the 
way we do business. 
We strive to work openly and sustainably, respecting 
the natural environment and working in partnership 
with communities to ensure we run responsible 
and efﬁcient operations. Our commitment to the 
sustainability of our operations has in turn resulted 
in cost beneﬁts across the Group.
The ongoing implementation and review of our 
sustainability initiatives are monitored by our CSR 
teams locally, with close links to our Risk Governance 
Group, with a direct reporting line to David Lockwood, 
Chief Executive, who regularly reports to the Board 
on CSR.
 “ At Laird we are committed to working 
sustainably in a way that respects the 
environment and which looks after the 
well-being of all our stakeholders and the 
wider communities in which we work. 
Good governance and monitoring of our 
sustainable performance will ultimately 
help us grow our business and generate 
good returns.” 
David Lockwood Chief Executive
This report covers seven areas which help us meet the 
needs of our wider stakeholder community:
Environmental
Health and safety management
Product stewardship
Operational efﬁciency
Workplace 
Community
Future initiatives
In addition, we have KPIs which provide an ongoing benchmark 
of our effectiveness (see page 25).
Sustainable business
2012 Achievements 
 One of the Group’s main operational sites in Shenzhen won the 
‘ Advanced Unit of Preventing Industrial Injury’ award presented 
by the Shenzhen Safety Bureau for the site’s excellent safety 
performance throughout 2012. 
 Global efforts are being made to regionalise raw material 
supplies and manufacturing operations, as well as signiﬁcantly 
reduce the number of product and material shipments that 
are expedited by air, by utilising consolidated ocean shipments 
instead. It is estimated we have reduced scope 3 GHG emissions 
for air shipments by 18% to 3,853 tonnes of CO
2
 emissions from 
4,710 tonnes in 201 1 as a direct result of this effort. This results 
in large cost savings in freight and duty for the business as well 
as greatly reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
 At the Shenzhen site, hot exhaust air from the site air compressors 
is utilised to heat chemical baths in the site’ s metal ﬁnishing 
operations, saving 30,000 kWh of electricity per month.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
32 Environmental
Laird aims to conduct all operations in a way that recognises 
responsibility to the environment and compliance with laws, 
regulations and consents. We acknowledge the importance of 
managing, measuring and publicly reporting on our environmental 
footprint and strive to keep improving our performance.
Carbon Disclosure Project
To demonstrate our commitment to improve energy efﬁciency 
and resource use across our operations, we participate in the 
annual Information Request by the Carbon Disclosure Project, 
an independent non-proﬁt organisation which acts as an 
intermediary between shareholders and corporations on all 
climate change related issues and provides primary climate 
change data from the world’s largest corporations to the 
global marketplace. 
RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances)
We continue to effectively address RoHS and any customer-required 
restricted substance management through proactive contact with 
our suppliers and continued sampling of materials deemed to be 
‘high risk’ through established internal protocols at our CNAS-A2LA
1
 
certiﬁed high precision RoHS laboratory in Shenzhen, China. 
In 2012 over 8,500 samples were tested for RoHS restricted 
substances in our Asian laboratories in Shenzhen, Kunshan and 
Tianjin. The decision to conduct in-house testing, as opposed to 
using an accredited third party laboratory resulted in net savings 
of approximately US$800,000 in 2012. 
REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation  
and restriction of CHemical substances)
We actively address customer enquiries for REACH compliance data 
for our products, and develop our supply chain in line with all REACH 
legal compliance obligations.
EHS (Environmental, Health and Safety Policy)
We are committed to achieving high environmental standards 
and maintain a proactive communications strategy amongst all 
employees to ensure continuous improvement and promote and 
develop good health, safety and environmental practices. 
1
 The national accreditation body of China responsible for the accreditation of 
certiﬁcation bodies, laboratories and inspection bodies. This certiﬁcation is also 
recognised by the American Association for Laboratory Accreditation (A2LA) under 
the international cooperation scheme.
2
 Greenhouse Gas Protocol is the most widely used international accounting tool for 
government and business leaders to recognise, quantify, and manage greenhouse 
gas emissions.
 Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or 
controlled by the entity such as fossil fuels burned on site and other direct sources. 
Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the generation of 
electricity, heating and cooling, or steam generated off site but purchased by the 
entity. Scope 3 emissions include indirect GHG emissions from sources not owned or 
directly controlled by the entity but related to the entity’s activities, such as third 
party shipping, business travel and commuting activities.
It is a corporate directive that all Laird manufacturing sites deemed 
to have an environmental impact and EHS risk, implement certiﬁed 
integrated management systems to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 
18001 standards. 
Our main manufacturing facilities are ISO 9000 and ISO 9001 
certiﬁed. Twelve Laird facilities currently hold active Integrated 
Management Systems (IMS) certiﬁcation status to ISO 14001/
OHSAS 18001 standards and two facilities hold active ISO 
14001 certiﬁcation. All of these facilities successfully completed 
re-certiﬁcation or surveillance audits during the year. 
In addition the Kunshan facility in China achieved certiﬁcation to 
ISO 14064- 1:2006 for veriﬁcation of their site scope 1 and scope 2 
greenhouse gas emissions
2
.
Measuring our progress
Throughout 2012 we have been monitoring energy usage and 
carbon emissions in our largest sites, with an activity-based reduction 
target of 5 % relative to total hours worked. Total greenhouse 
gas emissions at these sites in 2012 were 25,945 tonnes CO
2
 
approximately 8% below 201 1 (28,437 tonnes CO
2
). 
The increase in waste production can be attributed to an increased 
number of sites that were included in the reporting this year as a 
result of recent acquisitions made during 2012.
Tonnes CO
2
/£1 million revenue
77.34 2011
67.22 2012
kWh/£1 million revenue
197,043 2011
171,557 2012
Waste to landﬁll (tonnes/£1 million revenue)
1.17 2011
1.20 2012
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
33 Operating review
Corporate Social Responsibility
Health and safety management
Worldwide employee headcount for our operations decreased from 
9,912 at the end of 201 1 to 9,078 at the end of 2012. 
The reportable accident rate increased from 0. 13 in 201 1 to 0.20 
per 100 employees annualised
3
, on an approximate 20% decrease 
in total hours worked from 201 1. Minor accident rates reported in 
2012 decreased 1 7% from 0.24 in 201 1 to 0.20 per 100 employees 
annualised. Health and safety remains a key focus of our risk 
management.
Lower headcount and fewer total hours worked can be attributed to 
the discontinuation of some of our operations in China.
Worldwide headcount
9,912 2011
9,078 2012
Reportable accidents per 100 employees annualised
0.13 2011
0.20 2012
Product stewardship
Environmental, Health and Safety considerations are fundamental in 
our business planning and in the development of new products and 
manufacturing processes.
Energy efﬁcient regulation and greater energy awareness are 
redeﬁning future lighting product portfolios and the industry is rapidly 
moving towards more energy efﬁcient solutions, such as LEDs. Laird 
now supplies thermally conductive circuit boards for these assemblies 
which help to remove excess heat from the LEDs, improving their 
performance, preventing them from damage, and assuring colour 
and intensity stability over their long lifetime. 
Remote sensing is becoming more prominent in a wide range of 
applications including the monitoring and control of safety and 
environmental management systems. Laird offers power supply 
assemblies that utilise temperature differentials to generate power 
for these sensor systems, eliminating the need to run electrical wiring 
to power them and often harvesting waste heat as an additional 
power source.
3
 We have adopted US OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) 
reportable accident deﬁnitions across Laird in all regions to ensure we are consistent 
in our deﬁnitions and that we are accurately capturing notiﬁcation and data on all 
reportable accidents that occur.
2012 Sustainability activities 
 Various energy savings, materials reduction and recycling 
initiatives are continuing across all our facilities, including 
precious metal and scrap metal recovery programmes, 
cardboard and white paper reduction and recycling 
programmes, the re-use of packaging material and shipping 
pallets, and the replacement of inefﬁcient facility lighting with 
LED and other energy efﬁcient lighting.
 Laird’s Shenzhen site installed new waste gas treatment 
equipment and a central control system in 2012 to further 
reduce plant air emissions.
 During the renovation of a newly acquired thermal facility 
in Cleveland, low VOC
4
 paint was used for the exterior of the 
building, recycled asphalt for the car park repair, and energy 
efﬁcient lighting was installed inside the factory.
FTSE4Good
As a member of the FTSE4Good index since 2004, we recognise 
the need to balance our social and environmental impacts in 
a manner that best serves the needs of all our stakeholders, 
including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and local 
communities. The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria are updated on 
a regular basis and continuous improvement is required to merit 
ongoing inclusion in the index. The criteria are also regularly 
assessed by EIRIS, an independent research organisation.
Operational efﬁciency
Continuous Improvement 
The Continuous Improvement Process (CIP) programme contributes 
to improvements in overall business processes, enhances the 
quality of our product and reliability of fulﬁlment, and increases 
operational efﬁciency and responsiveness to customers. This in 
turn positively beneﬁts our proﬁtability and customer satisfaction. 
Customer satisfaction is measured through formal customer surveys 
and customer centric internal KPIs. Information is reviewed by the 
businesses and support teams, and through continued assessment 
and actions, we strive to continually improve customer satisfaction 
and ensure lessons learnt are fed back into the product development 
and deployment processes.
We continued to see gains in our manufacturing processes, product 
quality and customer satisfaction ratings alongside cost reductions 
through our Lean Six Sigma/CIP programme during 2012, which 
delivered approximately US$12.6 million in savings by the end of 
the year. 
4
 Volatile Organic Compound. Organic chemicals with high vapour pressure and which 
are regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
34 Customer satisfaction continued to improve during 2012 with survey 
results indicating a further increase in our overall ‘Quality’ rating. In 
addition, every business unit was rated higher than other competitors 
for ‘Quality’ for the third year in a row, with an overall 58% increase 
in quality ratings against competitors between 201 1 and 2012. 
Our focus on reducing the number of customer complaints 
through our CIP programme has resulted in a 33 % reduction in the 
Customer Complaint rate year on year. A major focus of the 2012 
CIP programme was Supplier Quality Improvement, which involved 
a formal three phase plan to reorganise the worldwide supplier 
development organisation and update the processes, procedures, 
systems and approach to performance improvement. The results in 
2012 were a 60% improvement in Supplier Quality (parts per million 
reduction year on year).
Workplace
Human Rights
The International Labour Organisation (ILO) has identiﬁed eight Core 
Conventions as being fundamental to the rights of human beings 
at work. Laird has expressed its support for the Core Conventions, 
and we have stated our commitment to the principles within 
these conventions.
Laird is committed to ensuring that its supply base complies with 
the EICC Code of Conduct, a code of best practice implemented 
by some of the world’s major electronics brands and their 
suppliers. Laird has established processes and practices in place, 
and regularly audits and reviews these to ensure its operations are 
using Best in Class processes. We are also audited several times a 
year by a number of our customers.
2012 Workplace initiatives 
Our Shenzhen, Tianjin and Shunde sites in China all successfully 
passed ‘Work Safety Standardisation’ audits conducted by their 
local government Safety Bureaus.
Our Shenzhen facility installed additional heating, ventilation 
and air conditioning (HVAC) capacity and ventilation to improve 
indoor air quality for employees’ manufacturing areas.
Laird’s EMI site in Shanghai installed air conditioning in the 
stamping workshop at both the Xinzhuang and Songjiang plants 
to improve the working conditions for employees.
Employee engagement
Selection, recruitment, retention and professional development, 
alongside the well-being of our employees, are taken very seriously 
as we recognise that the success of our business relies on the skill 
and dedication of our employees. The welfare of our employees is 
one of our highest priorities and we aim to offer great opportunities 
for personal and professional growth as well as an enjoyable 
working environment. 
In 2012, as part of the process to better understand and improve 
our organisation’s culture, Laird partnered with Stanford University 
in California to conduct an online cultural gap analysis (the process 
through which a company compares its actual performance to its 
expected performance), the results of which have allowed us to 
begin a wider programme of cultural integration and alignment 
alongside improved internal communications. In addition, we 
conduct a comprehensive global employee satisfaction survey 
across the organisation every 18 months to monitor employees’ 
views on our internal operations, and set an action plan to address 
any issues raised. A new employee engagement survey scheme will 
be conducted in the second quarter of 2013 and then carried out 
frequently throughout the year. 
We continue to offer our employees ongoing learning and 
development opportunities through our training schemes in order to 
help them develop their skills and keep abreast of the latest industry 
innovations. Courses are aligned to match the skills our employees 
require to support their growth in their respective ﬁelds. We ran a 
total of 1 71,524 hours of training courses, an average of 19 hours per 
employee during 2012. 
Regular consultation between managers and employees is 
encouraged and performance and development reviews reinforce 
the link between business goals, an employee’s contribution and 
his/her remuneration. As part of our Total Rewards Strategy, we 
have ‘Career Ladders’ along with a ‘Career Aspiration’ tool in 
order to create development plans for our employees’ continued 
advancement. This project along with our ‘Succession Planning’ 
and ‘High Potential’ schemes are building a culture of learning and 
growth for all employees.
The worldwide annualised employee turnover rate has improved to 
9.9% from 1 5.2% in 201 1. The voluntary attrition rate in Asia in 2012 
was 1 7 .3 % down from 33.5 % in 201 1, similar patterns were seen in 
Europe and North America (Europe was 8.0% from 13.0% and North 
America was 8.8% from 1 1.7% ). This can be attributed to improved 
pay packages and hiring practices in addition to an increased focus 
on better employee relations and communications.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
35 Operating review
Global Code of Conduct
 High standards of business conduct are a key competitive 
strength and critical to maintaining our global licence to operate. 
Laird believes in upholding the highest ethical standards of 
business integrity. We place high priority on compliance with all 
legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance 
of high ethical standards within each of the territories and 
jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Our Global Code 
of Conduct, which is available on our website and reviewed 
annually, incorporates policies and guidelines relating to human 
rights, equal opportunities, ethics, compliance, anti-harassment, 
conﬂicts of interest and regulatory compliance. 
 Our global Ethics Hotline provides a conﬁdential way for 
employees to raise concerns about inappropriate behaviour. 
The hotline utilises an independent telephone and internet 
provider, offering support in local languages and has an 
internal escalation and resolution process driven by the 
Risk Governance Group.
 Laird’s Environmental, Health and Safety Policy, Global Code of 
Conduct and Equal Employment and Human Rights policy are 
available online at www.laird-plc.com/laird/csr 
Community
Charitable donations and community affairs
Laird understands that maintaining a good relationship between its 
business and the broader society in which it operates is fundamental 
to long-term business growth.
Examples of locally based activities in which our employees and 
facilities across the globe participated in over the past year include: 
sponsored walks, gift programmes, rafﬂes, cake sales, local nature 
reserve conservancy efforts, and the support of educational projects. 
During the year Laird donated £6,634 (201 1, £2,288) to UK charities 
and £9,816 (201 1, £22,276) to charities worldwide.
Future initiatives 
2012 has seen a series of improvements to our data collection, 
analysis and reporting processes that have already facilitated 
improvements to our CSR performance. Building on this success, Laird 
is formalising a strategy which over the next two years will develop 
our data collection and set and monitor relevant targets. As we 
mature our processes we plan to seek an independent assurance of 
our key CSR reporting including carbon emissions, waste generation 
and water consumption. 2013 will start to see greater importance 
placed on reporting our water usage across all sites and an increase in 
our water conservation efforts. As part of our strategy we have been 
working in conjunction with the Carbon Disclosure Project to draw 
upon their support and advice in order to achieve our goals.
ZhiChao Public Primary School, China
Laird is committed to helping the needs of one of the local 
communities in which it operates and therefore set up a joint 
project with four of its suppliers to assist the ZhiChao Public Primary 
School in China. The school is located in the Ledong Li Autonomous 
County, an area that experiences high poverty. The school was 
founded in 1952 and has over 50 students between the ages of 
six and 13. Laird, together with its suppliers, worked to improve the 
overall condition of the school, which had deteriorated over time, 
in the hope of creating a better educational environment for its 
students and teachers. Doors, windows, tables and chairs in all of 
the classrooms were replaced and each student received school 
equipment. The group coordinators later visited the school to meet 
the students and teachers and assess the improvements that had 
been made.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
36 Segments
Laird has two segments within continuing operations: Performance Materials and Wireless Systems. Laird’s Handset Antennae business was 
divested during 2012 and is disclosed as Discontinued Operations in note 3 to the Accounts.
Revenue 
Revenue from continuing operations increased by 6 % to £520.2m for the full year in 2012 from £491.3m in 201 1. In US Dollars, the increase 
was 5 %.
In US Dollars, Performance Materials revenues were 5 % higher and Wireless Systems revenues were 4 % higher. The table below shows 
revenue for each segment in US Dollars together with the incremental revenue contribution from acquisitions in 2012. 
Performance  
Materials  
£m
Wireless  
Systems 
£m
Continuing  
Operations  
£m
Performance  
Materials 
$m
Wireless  
Systems 
$m
Continuing  
Operations  
$m
2012
Net of Acquisitions 313.3 187 .4 500.7 496.4 296.8 793.2
Acquisitions 11.4 8.1 19.5 18.0 12.9 30.9
Total for the year 324.7 195.5 520.2 514.4 309.7 824.1
2011
Total for the year 305.0 186.3 491.3 489.5 299.1 788.6
Segmental revenue is also disclosed in note 3. 
Revenue from the largest customer, including revenue invoiced indirectly through its suppliers, amounted to 19% of revenue from continuing 
operations (201 1, 14 % ). The top ﬁve customers accounted for 36 % of revenue (including revenue invoiced indirectly through their suppliers) in 
2012 (201 1, 32% ).

Finance Director’s report
Jonathan Silver Finance Director
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
37 Financial review
Underlying operating proﬁt/operating margin
The table that follows shows underlying operating proﬁt for the business segments for 2012 and the comparative data for 201 1 together with 
the operating margin percentage. Operating margin was 13. 1 % in 2012 (201 1, 1 1.9% ). 
Performance 
Materials 
£m
Wireless  
Systems 
£m
Central  
Costs  
£m
Continuing 
Operations  
£m
Performance 
Materials 
$m
Wireless  
Systems 
$m
Central  
Costs  
$m
Continuing 
Operations  
$m
2012
Operating Proﬁt 48.9 25.8 (6.6) 68.1 77 .5 40.9 (10.5) 107 .9
Operating Margin 15.1 % 13.2% 13.1 % 15.1 % 13.2% 13.1 %
2011
Operating Proﬁt 43.0 22.7 (7 .3) 58.4 69.0 36.4 (1 1.7) 93.7
Operating Margin 14.1 % 12.2% 1 1.9% 14.1 % 12.2% 1 1.9%
Gross margin of 40.0% (201 1, 37 .7% ) has increased year on year largely due to higher margins on new products, savings from vertical 
integration and automation, and from the withdrawal from low margin business.
Operating margin for Performance Materials increased to 15. 1 % in 2012 (201 1, 14. 1 % ) and for Wireless Systems operating margin increased 
to 13.2% (201 1, 12.2% ). 
Proﬁt/Loss 
Proﬁt before tax from continuing operations was £45. 1m (201 1, £29.3m). Proﬁt for the year after taxation and after discontinued operations 
was £46.5m (201 1, loss of £1 19.0m).
Underlying proﬁt
Underlying proﬁt before tax in the year was £60.7m (201 1, £51.7m). Underlying proﬁt is deﬁned as proﬁt before tax, exceptional items, 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets, the gain or loss on sale of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of ﬁnancial 
instruments, and acquisition transaction costs, as set out in note 14. 
Exceptional costs
Exceptional costs in the period amounted to £2. 1m for continuing operations (201 1, £8. 1m, including £3.8m for bid defence costs) of which 
£1.5m were in respect of acquisition transaction costs.
Finance costs 
Finance costs, excluding a proﬁt on the fair valuing of ﬁnancial instruments of £0.4m (201 1, loss of £0.2m) were £7 .4m, compared to  
£6.7m in 201 1. 
Taxation 
The underlying tax charge on total underlying proﬁt before tax is equivalent to an average tax rate of 16.5 % (201 1, 1 7 . 1 % ). The average tax 
rate in 2013 is expected to be in the range 1 7% to 18%.
Proﬁts in the USA continue to be sheltered by amortised goodwill deductions, resulting from acquisitions. An analysis of the total tax charge is 
given in note 1 1. 
Discontinued operations
Proﬁt from discontinued operations was £12.9m (201 1, loss of £131.2m) of which £7 .7m was a transfer of exchange gains from reserves in 
respect of the divested business.
Underlying earnings 
Continuing underlying earnings per share were 19. 1 pence (201 1, 16.2 pence). Underlying earnings are based on underlying proﬁt less 
underlying tax and exclude deferred tax on acquired intangible assets, goodwill and US capitalised development costs. The average number 
of shares in issue throughout 2012 was 265.6 million (201 1, 265.4 million).
Finance Director’s report
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
38 Cash ﬂow
The table below provides a further analysis of cash ﬂow to complement the notes to the Accounts.
Analysis of cash ﬂow 2012 
£m 
Discontinued  
Operations
2012 
£m 
Continuing  
Operations
Operating proﬁt –68.1
Depreciation / asset disposal gain 1.5 1 3.5
Amortisation of capitalised development costs – 5.3
Other non-cash –1.8
1.5 88.7
Reduction in working capital* 11. 1 7 .5
Capitalised development costs –(8.5)
Capital expenditure less disposals (0.3) (13.3)
Operating cash ﬂow 12.3 74.4
Total operating cash ﬂow 86.7
Finance costs (7 .0)
Taxation (1 7 .9)
Trading cash ﬂow surplus 61.8
Dividends (23.2)
Acquisitions / disposals (1 6.4)
Exceptional costs (1 3.3)
Share issues 1.6
Increase in treasury shares (4.4)
Exchange translation movement 4.8
Decrease in net borrowings 10.9
* after adjusting for creditor decreases on exceptional items of £12.4m
Cash conversion (operating cash ﬂow as a proportion of operating proﬁt) for continuing operations was strong at 109%. In addition there was 
an operating cash inﬂow from discontinued operations of £12.3m. 
Research and development
Laird increased its investment in research and development in 2012. Expenditure on research and development increased by £5.6m (+ 18 % ) 
to £36.6m amounting to 7 .0% of revenue (201 1, 6.3 % ). A further step up in research and development is planned for 2013, which initially will 
slow the further improvement in operating margins that would be expected. 
Treasury policies
Laird has a centralised Treasury function, the objectives of which are to monitor and manage the ﬁnancial risks of the Group and to ensure 
that sufﬁcient liquidity is available to meet the requirements of the business. Group Treasury is not intended to be a proﬁt centre and operates 
within a framework of policies and procedures.
Laird’s Treasury uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to assist in the management of foreign exchange and interest rate risk, principally 
forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps. All hedging is carried out centrally and speculative trading is speciﬁcally prohibited 
by Group Treasury policy.
Interest rate risk
Laird is exposed to interest rate risk as it holds borrowings on both a ﬁxed and ﬂoating basis. Laird’s policy for this risk is to optimise the mix of 
ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate borrowings using interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements to manage Laird’s ﬁnance costs.
Credit and counterparty risk
Laird’s policy on counterparty risk management is to place cash deposits and other ﬁnancial instruments with its relationship banks, all of 
which also provide credit facilities to Laird. The level of exposure to each bank is continually monitored. As at 31 December 2012 all cash and 
short-term deposits had a maturity of less than three months.
Foreign exchange management
Laird aims to minimise its exposures to US Dollar transactional currency exposures by matching local currency income with local currency 
costs. Laird aims to forward cover at least 75 % of the unmatched cash ﬂows on a quarterly basis.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
39 Financial review
Foreign currency borrowings are used partially to hedge the currencies of the Group’s principal assets and cash ﬂows. Where foreign currency 
borrowings are in the same currency as investment in overseas assets they are treated as a hedge of the net investment.
Net borrowings and debt facilities
Net borrowings were £106.8m (201 1, £1 1 7 .7m). 
A cornerstone of Laird’s ﬁnancial planning is to ensure that the Group maintains committed loan ﬁnance which provides sufﬁcient 
headroom above expected borrowing requirements and has a signiﬁcant proportion with terms that exceed one year. Laird has £235.0m 
(201 1, £235.0m) of bilateral revolving credit facilities which do not expire until April 2016. 
In addition, Laird has in issue $140.0m (£86. 1m) of US Dollar Private Placement notes which have remaining terms of just under two years 
(2014, $97 .0m), and four years (2016, $43.0m).
Covenants
A key consideration for ﬁnancial planning is to maintain sufﬁcient headroom between borrowings and the ceiling set by the covenants. 
Laird’s bank facilities and US Private Placement loan notes contain two principal ﬁnancial covenants; net debt/EBITDA (earnings before 
exceptional items, interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation), and interest cover.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, net borrowings were 1.2 times EBITDA, 34 % of the maximum permitted of 3.5 times. Interest cover 
was 10. 1 times against the minimum requirement of 3.0 times. Thus, there was considerable ﬁnancial headroom. 
The expected headroom is routinely estimated against the covenants and the sensitivity to a number of alternative scenarios is tested to 
ensure ongoing compliance. The Group does not anticipate approaching its covenant limits in the foreseeable future. 
Currencies in 2012
Local currency exposures are balanced where possible but the Group operates a global business and this creates currency imbalances where 
operating and procurement costs may not be able to be matched with revenues in local currencies. 
In 2012, circa 75 % of revenues were negotiated in US Dollars. With circa 40% of the cost base in US Dollars, there is a large US Dollar surplus. 
Approximately 10% of revenues are negotiated in both Renminbi (RMB) and Euros. 
In most currencies (other than US Dollars and Euro), costs exceed revenues, the most signiﬁcant being the RMB which accounts for 
approximately 40% of Laird’s cost base. This imbalance led to an adverse impact, in so far as the strengthening of the RMB may not be fully 
recovered in US Dollar selling prices.
In addition, there is a translation impact in converting proﬁts into the Group’s reporting currency (Sterling); each US$0.01 appreciation against 
Sterling approximates to an annual increase in operating proﬁt of £0.4m. In 2012, on average through the year the US Dollar was stronger 
against Sterling than in 201 1 and this increased proﬁts on translation by £0.8m.
The majority of the Group’s assets are held overseas and these are hedged in part by foreign currency loans. 
Pensions 
There are 31 employees who are active members of deﬁned beneﬁt plans and approximately 1,600 deferred and current pensioners. There is 
an overall deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme deﬁcit under IAS 19 of £1.5m at 31 December 2012. At 31 December 201 1, there was an overall 
surplus of £1.0m.
The principal driver of the year on year change resulting in a deﬁcit was a reduction in the bond rate used to discount liabilities from 4.95 % in 
201 1 to 4.4 % in 2012, which contributed to the increase in the estimate of liabilities. This was offset by an experience gain on liabilities as a 
result of using updated data from the formal triennial valuation carried out at 1 January 2012.
Shareholders’ funds 
Shareholders’ funds at the 2012 year-end were £440.9m (201 1, £440.4m). The reconciliation is set out in the Group statement of changes 
in equity.
Return on capital employed 
Return on capital employed (underlying proﬁt before interest and tax as a proportion of average shareholders’ funds plus net borrowings 
during the year) was 12.4 % in 2012 compared to 9.7% in 201 1.
Finance Director’s report
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
40 Principal risks and uncertainties
The management and control of risks within Laird 
are embedded within basic operating procedures. 
These procedures comprise a range of measures 
including Group policies, Laird Operating Rules, 
monthly reporting, internal and external audits 
and other management control assurance reviews 
(e.g. EHS, quality and standards including ISO). 
Laird operates globally in broad markets. Risk 
is impacted by changing environments and is 
continually monitored and rated. The risks and 
uncertainties outlined below, which are not 
presented in any order of priority, are those Laird 
believes to be the principal risks and uncertainties 
that are or may be faced. In addition, information 
on the Laird Risk Management Framework is given 
on pages 53 and 54.
We review and monitor risks at both inherent and residual levels, i.e. 
before and after the assessed impact of controls, and assess forward 
trends. A risk framework looks at likelihoods and consequences and is 
plotted in the form illustrated.
CONSEQUENCE
TERMINATE
THREAT
TOLERATE
TRANSFER
LIKELIHOOD
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
HIGH
HIGH LOW
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
41 Financial review
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk description Potential impact Mitigating activities
Strategic & Markets
Competition and 
market conditions
Laird operates in market sectors which are characterised by 
a high level of competition between suppliers and which are 
driven by rapid technological change. Changes in market 
dynamics could have a material adverse effect on Laird’s 
ﬁnancial condition and prospects.
Laird’s competitive position may suffer were it unable to 
respond promptly and effectively to technological change 
and customers and competitors’ innovations.
Laird’s products and solutions include technologies in 
which it holds intellectual property rights which may be 
subject to infringement, counterfeiting or misappropriation. 
Claims could be asserted against Laird that it has infringed 
intellectual property owned by others and such claims might 
require Laird to incur legal costs or face legal restrictions on 
selling certain products. 
The loss of a major contract or erosion of business with a 
key customer, whether through competitive action or any 
change in strategy or ordering requirements from customers, 
could have a materially adverse effect on Laird’s ﬁnancial 
condition and prospects.

a broad customer base and monitoring 
the market to support a swift response to 
market changes

high growth markets

manufacturing base

(IP) protection programme and moving to 
products with a higher IP protected content

conﬁdentiality policies, non-disclosure and 
other contractual arrangements to protect 
intellectual property rights

performance of employees and their 
relationships with customers

timely manner
Macroeconomic and  
political factors
During an economic downturn or delayed recovery, 
customers may cancel, reduce or postpone anticipated 
orders, or apply pressure to prices and margins, any of 
which may result in lasting changes in terms of trade pricing 
policies, delivery capabilities and market expectations.
Wider political factors may impact operations or markets.

political indicators


Acquisitions Laird has made and is likely to make further strategic 
acquisitions of complementary businesses, assets and 
companies with the intention of accelerating growth and 
strengthening and developing its market. If such acquisitions 
cannot be successfully integrated and the risks managed, 
Laird’s business, ﬁnancial condition and the results of its 
operations may be adversely affected.


processes

technically qualiﬁed personnel or customers

from vendors where possible
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
42 Risk description Potential impact Mitigating activities
Operations
China operational 
concentration 
– Labour costs
–  Changing regulatory, political 
and industrial environment
Laird faces continued pressure on Chinese labour costs, 
particularly with reference to base pay and increasing social 
costs. The result of these pressures may lead to reduced 
proﬁts or other adverse effects on the business.
Laird may encounter difﬁculty in managing operations due 
to unfavourable political or economic factors or unexpected 
legal or regulatory changes. If the effects of this instability 
disrupt Laird’s operations in this region, Laird’s operating 
results may be adversely affected.

productivity


manufacturing operations processes to 
Western China and other areas

with authorities
Supply chain and  
raw materials
Laird’s ability to deliver according to market demands 
depends largely on obtaining timely and adequate supplies 
of components and raw materials. 
Failure in the supply chain could interrupt Laird’s product 
supply, limit sales and increase costs.
The raw materials used include commodities such as copper, 
beryllium copper, steel, aluminium, silver and zinc – all of 
which may be subject to price volatility. This may impact 
Laird’s operating proﬁts.


where possible


management

key suppliers
Product risks Laird’s reputation and brand value may be adversely 
affected due to real or alleged failures in its products 
and solutions.

processes

where possible

management 
Operational continuity One or more of Laird’s main factories or sites may suffer 
major disruption such as pandemic, ﬁre, ﬂooding, regulatory 
action, loss of IT systems or similar which may have an 
adverse effect on Laird’s activities, especially where multiple 
manufacturing processes are co-located. Any of the above 
may prevent Laird from fully performing its contractual 
obligations, potentially resulting in reputational damage. 

place at site and business unit level

processes


Finance
Currency exposures Laird is subject to various ﬁnancial and ﬁscal risks by virtue of 
its global operations and customer base. 

currency costs

the management of foreign exchange 
and interest rate risk, principally forward 
exchange contracts and interest rate swaps
Corporate Responsibility
Regulatory compliance In common with all global businesses we face complex and 
differing regulatory rules in all areas of our operations and 
markets. A serious breach by Laird could have an adverse 
effect upon Laird’s business and the results of its operations 
may also be adversely affected.

compliance policies and procedures

programmes

corporate function
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
43 Governance

 “The corporate governance framework and 
processes we have in place are designed to 
help us to manage the Group effectively and 
to demonstrate transparent, consistent and 
effective governance. It is this strong adherence 
to good governance, embedded at all levels in 
our business, which helps us deliver our strategic 
objectives.” 
Nigel Keen Chairman
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
44 Board of Directors
Nigel Keen
Chairman. MA, FCA, FIET 
Appointed a non-executive director in 1993 and Chairman in 2000. 
Following the resignation of the Chief Executive due to ill health in 
November 201 1, Nigel Keen was Executive Chairman until 13 August 
2012 when David Lockwood was appointed as Chief Executive. Nigel 
is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. He is Chairman of Oxford Instruments plc, 
Bioquell PLC and Deltex Medical Group plc. 
David Lockwood, OBE
Chief Executive. BA, ACA, RSA
David Lockwood joined Laird on 2 July 2012 and was appointed 
Chief Executive with effect from 13 August 2012. David was formerly 
Vice President Global Defence & Security at BT Global Services and 
he has experience of international operations, gained from his roles 
at GPT (Marconi), BAE Systems, Intense Limited (a phototonics 
high-tech start-up), and Thales Corporation. David chaired the 
Scottish Government’s Technology Advisory Group and in 2005, was 
awarded Scottish Entrepreneur of the Year for Technology. In the 
201 1 Queen’s Birthday Honours, David was awarded the Order of the 
British Empire for services to industry in Scotland.
Jonathan Silver
Finance Director. BA, CA
Jonathan Silver joined Laird in 1986 and was appointed to the Board 
as Finance Director in 1994. Jonathan was previously Group Treasurer 
and Corporate Development Manager. He is non-executive director 
of INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc.
Paula Bell
Non-Executive Director. FCMA, CGMA
Appointed on 2 March 2012, Paula Bell is Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee. It has 
been recently announced that Paula has been appointed as Group 
Finance Director for John Menzies plc, following six years as Group 
Finance Director at Ricardo plc. Prior to this Paula was Finance and 
Property Director of Gatwick Airport for BAA plc, Director of Finance 
for Anglian Water Group plc, and held senior ﬁnance and business 
development positions over a 10 year period at Rolls-Royce plc. Paula 
is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG
Non-Executive Director. MA
Appointed in 2006, Sir Christopher is a member of the Remuneration, 
Audit and Nominations Committees. He was appointed to the 
Audit Committee during the year. Sir Christopher retired as Master of 
Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge in September 201 2 and is now 
a Life Fellow of the College. Sir Christopher was British Ambassador 
to the People’ s Republic of China, having previously served as HM 
Ambassador, Warsaw, as Assistant Under Secretary of State for North 
Asia and the Paciﬁc, and earlier as Head of the Hong Kong Department 
of the Foreign and Commonwealth Ofﬁce.
Professor Michael Kelly
Non-Executive Director. BSc, MSc, PhD, ScD, FRS FREng
Appointed in 2006, Professor Kelly is a member of the Remuneration 
and Audit Committees. He was appointed to the Audit Committee 
during the year. Professor Kelly is Prince Philip Professor of Technology 
at the University of Cambridge and a Professorial Fellow at Trinity 
Hall. He was formerly Chief Scientiﬁc Advisor to the Department for 
Communities and Local Government and was previously Executive 
Director of the Cambridge-MIT Institute and Professor of Physics and 
Electronics at the University of Surrey.
Anthony Reading, MBE
Non-Executive Director. FCA
Appointed in 2004, Tony Reading is the Senior Independent Director. 
He is also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member 
of the Audit and Nominations Committees. Tony was previously an 
Executive Director of Tomkins plc and Chairman and Chief Executive 
of Tomkins Corp. USA. He is also non-executive director of Taylor 
Wimpey plc and e2v Technologies plc. 
The Board is comprised of the Chairman, two executive 
directors, and four other non-executive directors all of 
whom have the skills and experience appropriate for 
Laird’s business.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
45 Governance
Directors’ report
for the year ended 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC is a holding company. The principal activities of its 
subsidiary undertakings (‘subsidiaries’) during the year were the 
design, manufacture and supply of products and solutions that 
protect electronic devices from electromagnetic interference and 
heat, and that enable connectivity through wireless applications and 
antennae systems. The Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s 
strategic review, Operational and Financial highlights, Operating 
review and Finance Director’s report should be read in conjunction 
with this report and where such documents are referred to herein, 
they are incorporated by reference into this Directors’ report. An 
analysis of revenue, proﬁt, assets and liabilities by segment is shown 
in note 3 on pages 80 to 82. 
Business review
A review of the development and performance of Laird during the 
year, its position at the year end, and the outlook and strategy of 
the Group is given in the Chairman’s statement on page 3, the Chief 
Executive’s strategic review on pages 1 1 to 14, the Operational and 
Financial highlights on page 2, the Finance Director’s report on pages 
37 to 40, the Operating review on pages 27 to 31, and note 14 to 
the ﬁnancial statements. Information on environmental matters is 
contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 32 
to 36. These pages, the Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’) and the 
Principal risks and uncertainties contained therein, are incorporated 
into this report by reference. Deﬁnitions of the KPIs and the 
performance against them are given on pages 24 and 25.
Results and dividend 
Underlying proﬁt before tax was £60.7m (201 1, £51.7m) and is 
analysed in note 14 on page 89. Laird’s proﬁt for the year after 
taxation was £46.5m (201 1, £1 19.0m loss). The recommended ﬁnal 
dividend is 6.6 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 7 June 2013 
to ordinary shareholders registered as members of the Company at 
the close of business on 10 May 2013, making a total dividend for the 
year of 10.0 pence per ordinary share. 
Risks and uncertainties
Information on the Laird Risk Management Framework is given on 
pages 53 and 54. 
Signiﬁcant contracts
Laird has arrangements with a number of major customers and 
suppliers whereby regional or global terms of supply are agreed. 
However, these arrangements do not amount to contractual 
obligations to purchase and supply as these are covered by individual 
purchase orders.
Share capital
The Company has only one class of share and the rights attached 
to each share are identical. Details of the rights and obligations 
attaching to the shares are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association which are available on the Company’s website. The 
Company may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is 
not a fully paid share. At a general meeting of the Company, every 
member has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for 
each share held. Details of the voting procedure are set out in the 
Notice of Meeting for the 2013 Annual General Meeting. 
At 31 December 2012 the issued share capital of the Company was 
267 ,410,920 ordinary shares of 28. 125 pence each. Details of the 
share capital and options outstanding as at 31 December 2012 are 
shown in note 29 on page 105.
At the 2012 Annual General Meeting, shareholders agreed to the 
renewal of the directors’ power to allot shares, or grant rights for or to 
convert any security into shares, in the Company; the disapplication 
of pre-emption rights and authorise the Company to make purchases 
of up to 10% of its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange. 
As at 28 February 2013 no shares have been purchased pursuant 
to this authority. Shareholders will be requested to renew these 
authorities at the 2013 Annual General Meeting and details are set 
out in the Notice of Meeting.
Directors
Re-election of directors
The directors as shown on page 45 were all directors throughout the 
year to 31 December 2012, with the exception of David Lockwood 
who was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 13 August 2012 
and Paula Bell who joined the Board on 2 March 2012. Andrew Robb 
and Bill Spivey retired as directors on 4 May 2012. All of the directors 
of the Company will offer themselves for re-election at the 2013 
Annual General Meeting. The Company’s Articles of Association 
(which require shareholder approval for any amendments), set out 
the powers of the directors and the regulations for their appointment 
and removal. 
None of the non-executive directors offering themselves for 
re-election has a service contract with the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries. Biographical details and reasons for reappointment 
for the non-executive directors are given in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting.
Directors’ interests
In the year to 31 December 2012 no director had a material interest 
in any third party contract of signiﬁcance with the Company or any 
of its subsidiaries. Directors’ shareholdings at 31 December 2012 are 
shown below. These interests were unchanged at 28 February 2013. 
Details of share options are shown in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 55 to 66.
Ordinary shares at
31.12.12 1. 1. 1 2*
N J Keen 523,245 393,245
D C Lockwood 10,300 10,300
J C Silver 395,000 375,000
P Bell 3,000 –
Sir C Hum 7,000 4,500
Professor M J Kelly 2,250 2,250
A J Reading 40,000 40,000
* or date of appointment, if later
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
46 Directors’ conﬂicts of interest
With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 
allows directors of public companies, subject to the provisions of 
the Company’s Articles of Association, to authorise conﬂicts and 
potential conﬂicts of interest, where appropriate. The authorisation 
shall be effective only if the matter is agreed to without the vote of 
the director who is subject to such conﬂict having been counted. The 
authority for directors to act in situations of conﬂict and the rules 
governing their duties in such situations are set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association. A register of conﬂicts or potential conﬂicts of 
interest has been prepared and it is available at every Board Meeting. 
Directors’ indemnities
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has 
indemniﬁed the directors in respect of proceedings brought by third 
parties and such indemniﬁcation was in place throughout the year.
Between 2005 and 2008, ﬁve of Laird’s ﬁnal salary pension schemes 
were merged. The trustees of the schemes, including Nigel Keen 
who is Chairman of the trustees of the surviving scheme, received 
an indemnity from the Company against any claim or other liability 
arising out of or in connection with the pension schemes and their 
agreement to the merger.
Employment policy
Laird conducts business in multiple locations and is committed to 
complying with the relevant legal requirements in each of those 
regions. Business unit management are responsible for implementing 
and communicating the Laird Equal Employment and Human Rights 
Policy Statement within their own business unit. Various methods are 
used throughout Laird as appropriate in each location for tracking 
morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which are reported 
regularly to local management teams.
Laird is committed to providing equal opportunities in terms of 
recruitment, training and career development for all employees, 
including those with disabilities. 
A copy of Laird’s Equal Employment and Human Rights Policy 
Statement is available on the Company’s website.
Employee participation
The Board recognises that the success of the business relies on 
the skill and dedication of its workforce and therefore encourages 
two-way communication with its employees. Operating subsidiaries 
encourage consultation at local level and performance and 
development reviews reinforce the link between business goals, 
an employee’s contribution and his/her remuneration. Laird 
communicates regularly with its employees, including through the 
provision of information on key events within Laird, charity and 
community involvement and employee achievements. 
Change of control arrangements
Three employees of the Company have long-standing agreements 
which provide for compensation, in addition to the contractual notice 
period, of up to a maximum of two years’ base salary for loss of 
employment which occurs as a result of a takeover offer or scheme. 
This additional compensation reduces pro rata to zero over the two 
years following the date of change of control. Four other employees 
of the Group have agreements which provide compensation of up to 
a maximum of one year’s base salary for loss of employment which 
occurs as a result of a takeover offer or scheme, in addition to their 
contractual notice period. This additional compensation is ﬁxed at 
one year’s base salary during the ﬁrst six months following the date 
of change of control and reduces pro-rata to zero over the next 12 
months. No director beneﬁts from these arrangements.
On a change of control, the Company’s bilateral revolving credit 
facilities may be cancelled by the lenders by giving not less than 30 
days notice to the Company. Under the terms of the US Dollar Private 
Placement, within 60 days of a change of control, the Company must 
notify all Noteholders and offer to repay all outstanding amounts. 
The Noteholders then have a period of 30 days to either accept the 
offer of repayment or continue with the Notes.
Corporate Social Responsibility 
In recognition that Laird’s businesses and its activities impact a 
wide community of stakeholders including investors, customers, 
employees, suppliers and local communities, the Board reviews the 
signiﬁcance of social, environmental and ethical matters which may 
affect Laird. A Corporate Social Responsibility report providing further 
detail can be found on pages 32 to 36.
Health and safety at work
Laird is committed to providing a safe working environment for its 
employees and continuous improvement is sought by the setting of 
objectives and targets based on relevant national and international 
health and safety standards and monitoring performance against 
these. In addition Laird maintains a proactive communications 
strategy amongst all employees to promote and develop good 
health and safety practices. Further information is shown in the 
Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 32 to 36.
Research and development
Investing in research and development programmes delivers 
product innovation and manufacturing improvements within Laird. 
Expenditure in 2012 on research and development amounted to 
£37 .4m (201 1, £40.2m), of which £8.5m has been capitalised (201 1, 
£9. 1m). Laird continues to develop its technology capabilities, with 
research and development expenditure during the year running at 
6.9% of sales (201 1, 6.9% ).
Basis of preparation of the accounts
As set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities on page 
67 , the accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis. 
A statement on going concern relating to a business requires 
judgement at a point in time about future events which, by their 
nature, are inherently uncertain. The directors have considered the 
ability of Laird to maintain committed loan ﬁnance, meet existing 
debt covenants and the impact of foreign currency exposures, 
as discussed in the Finance Director’s report on pages 37 to 40. 
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
47 Governance
Financial assets and liabilities
An analysis of debt is given in note 22 to the ﬁnancial statements. 
An analysis of ﬁnancial instruments at carrying value and fair value 
is given in note 28 to the ﬁnancial statements. Financial instruments 
and related disclosures together with a discussion of ﬁnancial risk 
management objectives and exposures to credit and liquidity risk are 
in accordance with IFRS 7 .
Supplier payment policy
Laird requires its subsidiaries to negotiate clear and satisfactory 
arrangements for the payment of suppliers, as part of the overall 
terms and conditions of the supply, and to make payment 
accordingly. At the year end Laird had two UK operating subsidiaries 
and they had 52 days of purchases outstanding.
Auditors
It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditor.
Shareholders
At 31 December 2012 there were 3,634 shareholders.
Substantial equity interests
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules (‘DTRs’) issued by the 
Financial Services Authority require notiﬁcations relating to control 
over exercising voting rights attached to shares. Categories of 
notiﬁable interests include direct interests (holdings of shares with 
voting rights attached), indirect interests (those with access to 
voting rights) and ﬁnancial instruments (which give the holder the 
formal entitlement to acquire shares with voting rights attached). 
Notiﬁcation must be made of each category, and also the aggregate 
of combined holdings, which exceed or fall below the notiﬁable 
threshold. The requirements of the DTRs specify that save in certain 
limited circumstances, notiﬁcations of holdings of 3 % or over have 
to be made when a full percentage point increase or decrease 
occurs. The Company has only one class of shares, and does not hold 
treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights under the DTRs is 
equivalent to the number of shares in issue.
As at 27 February 2013 (being the latest practicable date prior to the 
publication of this document) the following information has been 
received, in accordance with the DTRs, from holders of notiﬁable 
interests in the Company’s issued share capital. 
Number  
of shares
Percentage  
of voting 
rights
Nature  
of holding
Artemis Investment 
Management
30,125,912 1 1.07 Direct
Mondrian Investment Partners 25,1 10,058 5.21 Indirect
Franklin Templeton Investments 22,748,636 5.02 Indirect
Charitable donations
In the year to 31 December 2012, the Company gave £6,634 to UK 
charities (201 1, £2,288). 
Disclosure of information to the auditor
As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware. Each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is 
aware of that information.
 
By Order of the Board 
A M Downie 
Secretary
28 February 2013 
 
Registered ofﬁce 
100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ 
Registered in England No. 55513
Directors’ report
for the year ended 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
48 Corporate governance report
for the year to 31 December 201 2
The Board considered that during the year ended 31 December 2012 the Company was in compliance with all of the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), with the exception of provision A 2. 1 which states that the role of Chairman and Chief Executive 
should not be exercised by the same individual. On 25 November 201 1, Peter Hill resigned as Chief Executive due to ill-health. Nigel Keen 
assumed the role of Executive Chairman becoming responsible for the day-to-day running of the business in conjunction with a newly 
appointed Executive Committee made up of the senior managers, including the Divisional Presidents. David Lockwood joined the Board on 
1 3 August 201 2 at which time Nigel Keen resumed his former role as non-executive Chairman. The Board accepted temporary non-compliance 
with provision A 2. 1, to the extent that the Chairman has acted in an executive capacity, as being in the overall interests of the Company. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council’s website at http://www.frc.org.uk/corporate/ukcgcode.cfm.
The Board
The responsibilities and objectives of the Board
The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are the owners of the Company. The Board’s principal responsibility is to act in the best 
interests of the shareholders as a whole within the legal framework of the Companies Act 2006. The Board establishes the aims and 
objectives for the Company, approves the strategic direction and plans, and the operating budgets which are proposed by the Chief Executive, 
and monitors performance against them. The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the 
Company, for exercising proper and appropriate corporate governance, for establishing and ensuring the effectiveness of the Company’s 
systems of internal control and for reviewing management performance. Through the Chief Executive, the Board has regard to the necessary 
ﬁnancial and human resources required to meet the Company’s objectives.
The composition of the Board
The composition of the Board is outlined on page 45. The Board comprises an appropriate mix of executive and non-executive directors and is 
of a size and includes the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business. There is a clear written division of responsibility 
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which has been agreed by the Board. Tony Reading is the Senior Independent Director. The 
principal role of the Senior Independent Director is to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through 
the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive. As has been the practice for a number of years, the major shareholders were offered the 
opportunity to meet with the Senior Independent Director during the year. 
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent. Nigel Keen was appointed to the Board as an independent 
non-executive director in 1993. Nigel Keen fulﬁlled the criteria for independence as set out in the Code at the time of his appointment. 
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available from the Company on request and will be on display 
at the Annual General Meeting. All of the directors stand for annual re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
The operation of the Board
The Board meets at least eight times a year. A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be discussed is normally set out at least twelve 
months in advance. The Board makes periodic visits to the Company’s operations, and in addition the heads of the operating divisions and 
the Chief Human Resources Ofﬁcer periodically attend Board Meetings. The Board delegates certain other operating executions including its 
responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Administration Committees which are described below. The Board determines 
the membership and Chairmanship of the Committees. Minutes of those Committee meetings are circulated to Board members prior to each 
Board meeting. Prior to the meetings, all directors receive Board Papers, which include detailed ﬁnancial information and a comprehensive 
operational overview, from the Chief Executive. Normally, the Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at least twice a year without 
the executive directors present and the Senior Independent Director meets at least annually with the non-executive directors without the 
Chairman present. 
There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved for Board approval, including for example signiﬁcant long-term obligations such 
as capital investments, acquisitions and divestments above certain levels, the raising of new capital and entering into loan agreements. 
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive.
Performance of the Board
The Board completes an annual self-evaluation assessment of itself and its Committees. Following completion of questionnaires by all 
directors, the Chairman held one-to-one discussions with each director and led discussions to consider the Board’s procedures and its 
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
49 Governance
effectiveness. Certain areas were identiﬁed for improvement or action. The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees also 
considered their own performance and reported to the Board thereon. The performance of individual directors has been considered by the 
Chairman in discussion with other non-executive directors. The non-executive directors have considered the performance of the Chairman, 
taking into account the views of the executive directors. The Chairman considered the performance of the executive directors which was 
also discussed with the non-executive directors. Korn/Ferry, an independent third party, was appointed during 201 1 to review the Board’s 
evaluation processes and in addition, they conducted individual interviews with each director and the Company Secretary to understand the 
workings of the Board and to create a Leadership Road Map.
New directors are provided with training prior to taking up the role and existing directors are provided with training as necessary. This can 
take the form of reports and brieﬁngs from external advisers and senior employees, attendance at seminars and conferences and bespoke 
training. As part of the annual Performance Review each director is asked what training is required so that this can be factored in to 
forthcoming programmes.
Board attendance
The Board held nine meetings during 2012. There were four Audit Committee meetings, seven Remuneration Committee meetings and 
six Nominations Committee meetings during the year. Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings are given below and are 
discussed in more detail in the separate Committee sections of this report. Whenever a director is unable to attend a meeting, the director, 
if possible, consults with the Chairman prior to the meeting and is briefed by the Chairman after the meeting.
Attendance at Board meetings and Committees of the Board
Director Board (9) Audit (4) Remuneration (7) Nominations (6)
Mr N J Keen 9476
Mr D C Lockwood
1
3221
Mr J C Silver 9424
Ms P Bell
2
7354
Sir C Hum 9476
Professor M J Kelly 9476
Mr A J Reading 9476
Mr A M Robb
3
4233
Dr W Spivey
3
4233
1
 Joined the Board 13 August 2012
2
 Joined the Board 2 March 2012
3
 Retired from the Board 4 May 2012
Communications with shareholders
The Company is committed to increasing shareholder value and communicates its achievements and prospects to its shareholders in a 
timely manner and within the limits imposed by the Listing Rules. Regular communication with shareholders takes place through the Annual 
Report and Accounts, the Full Year and the Interim Results. Signiﬁcant matters relating to the trading or development of the business are 
communicated to the market by way of announcements through a regulatory information service and these announcements also appear on 
the Company’s website, along with other press releases, presentations and webcasts.
The Head of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications works closely with the Chief Executive and Finance Director on a day-to-
day basis, has full responsibility for devising and implementing the Company’s communications plan to service its current and prospective 
shareholders and provides information to ﬁnancial analysts and the media.
Regular written and verbal reports are presented to the Board on ongoing Investor Relations activity as well as providing feedback from the 
investor community.
During 2012 the primary focus was on engaging with Laird’s institutional and private shareholders within the UK to ensure the Company’s 
prospects and developments were understood, whilst still servicing Laird’s overseas investors. Looking ahead to 2013, the investor 
engagement plan will include further overseas investor visits.
Corporate governance report
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
50 Throughout the year the Company participated in 127 shareholder and prospective shareholder meetings, with activity mainly centred on key 
reporting dates, the March Full Year Results announcement, July Interims announcement, and the May and October Interim Management 
Statement dates. Although a programme of coordinated activity is followed throughout the year, where appropriate we also respond to 
ad hoc requests for meetings. The majority of the meetings were attended by the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of Investor 
Relations and Corporate Communications. For the ﬁrst half of 2012, meetings included the Chairman whilst in his interim role as Executive 
Chairman. The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available for meetings with shareholders in the event that there are 
any concerns which cannot be addressed through management, or in connection with any signiﬁcant change to the Company’s strategy, 
remuneration policy or governance arrangements. 
Following the appointment of David Lockwood as Chief Executive, major shareholders were offered meetings with the Chairman to introduce 
the Chief Executive. 
In December, a Business Review presentation for shareholders and ﬁnancial analysts was hosted in which David Lockwood set out his ﬁndings 
from his ﬁrst three months in his role as Chief Executive, and the strategic direction going forward.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are encouraged to attend all results presentations and collectively they welcome the Annual 
General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with both private investors and institutional shareholders and encourage them to 
attend. Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally after the meeting. The 
Chairman gives a formal report on the Company’s progress at the meeting and a copy of his statement is issued to a regulatory information 
service and published on the Company’s website. All of the directors attended the AGM in 2012. The Chairmen of the Remuneration and 
Audit Committees were available to answer questions relating to their area of responsibility. The number of proxy votes cast for, against and 
withheld on the resolutions are reported to the meeting and, following the meeting, are published on the Company’s website.
Committees of the Board
The written Terms of Reference of the Committees are available on the Company’s website, from the Company on request and will be 
on display at the Annual General Meeting. The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board, as appropriate, and the minutes 
of all Committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee members are all independent non-executive directors. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Paula Bell and the other 
members of the Audit Committee during the year were Sir Christopher Hum, Professor Michael Kelly, Tony Reading, Andrew Robb and Bill 
Spivey. Andrew Robb (previous Audit Committee Chair) and Bill Spivey retired on 4 May 2012 and Professor Michael Kelly and Sir Christopher 
Hum were appointed to the Committee, also with effect from that date. The Board ensures that at least one member, currently Paula Bell, 
has recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience, and it is satisﬁed that the Audit Committee as a whole has sufﬁcient ﬁnancial, international and 
commercial experience to enable it to carry out its duties. Normally, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the 
Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the external auditor are given notice of all meetings and may be invited to attend and 
speak at any meeting. The external auditor has the opportunity to meet with the Audit Committee without any executive directors present 
whenever necessary and the Audit Committee ensures that this happens at least once a year in order to discuss any issues or concerns from 
either party. The Audit Committee and the external auditor met formally without any executive directors present once during the year.
The Audit Committee, which met four times during the year, is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements of the 
Company which are relied upon by the Board. The Audit Committee Terms of Reference (which are available on the Company’s website) 
set out its responsibilities and procedures. The Audit Committee reviews the Group and the Company’s ﬁnancial statements prior to their 
publication with particular reference to signiﬁcant ﬁnancial reporting issues and judgements. During the year, the Annual Report and 
Accounts, AGM and interim management statement were reviewed by the Audit Committee before recommending them to the Board for 
approval. During the year, the Audit Committee has overseen the Company’s work on the Bribery Act 2010, which included reviewing the 
Company’s existing Global Code of Conduct. It also received three formal reports on litigation and claims.
The Audit Committee oversees the internal audit function and also has responsibility for reviewing the internal ﬁnancial controls. The Audit 
Committee considers the scope and planning of internal ﬁnancial audits and reviews the internal audit process for identifying and managing 
ﬁnancial risk and the ﬁndings of those audits. Deloitte LLP , who provide global internal audit services under the direction of the Director 
of Risk Management and Internal Audit, attended one Audit Committee meeting during the year. The Director of Risk Management and 
Internal Audit briefed the Audit Committee three times on key internal audit matters and ﬁndings of internal audit investigations. He had 
the opportunity at each meeting to meet with the Audit Committee without any executive directors present and he met separately with the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee on four further occasions during the year. The number of meetings was higher than normal to ensure the 
smooth transition of the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
51 Governance
Corporate governance report
for the year to 31 December 201 2
The Audit Committee reviews the Company’s procedure for handling allegations from whistleblowers as set out in the Company’s Global 
Code of Conduct (which is on the Company’s website) and any whistleblowing events are brought to its attention. A whistleblowing service, 
which offers a relevant language service in all countries in which Laird operates, is made available to all employees through an independent 
telephone and internet provider. Employees have the right to remain anonymous. A monthly report on any calls received is sent to senior 
management. Investigation of all whistleblower communications is overseen by the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit with 
ﬁndings reported to the Board.
The appointment and terms of engagement of Ernst & Young LLP , the external auditor, including the proposed fee structure were considered 
and the independence of the external auditor assessed. The Audit Committee considered the scope and planning of the external ﬁnancial 
audit and assessed the effectiveness of the audit process, including a report on the audit ﬁrm’s own internal quality control procedures.
The Audit Committee has reviewed Ernst & Young LLP’s key policies for maintaining objectivity and independence, including the policy for the 
rotation of audit partners which requires a new lead audit partner to be appointed every ﬁve years. In accordance with this policy, there was 
a change in lead audit partner in 201 1. The Audit Committee also reviewed the policy on employment of former employees of the external 
auditor and conﬁrmed it remained effective.
The Audit Committee also recommends for Board approval a policy for non-audit services to be performed by the auditor. This policy 
prohibits the use of the external audit ﬁrm for certain speciﬁed matters and the hiring of its former employees, without approval from the 
Audit Committee Chairman. There are often sound commercial and practical reasons, including conﬁdentiality, for using Ernst & Young LLP to 
provide non-audit services. During the year, Ernst & Young LLP provided tax planning and compliance advice and regulatory compliance work. 
Where applicable, competitive quotes are obtained. Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in note 6 on page 84.
The Audit Committee has authority to seek any information it requires from any ofﬁcer or employee of the Company or any of its 
subsidiary undertakings. It believes that it has received sufﬁcient, reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulﬁl 
its responsibilities during the year. The Audit Committee can take such independent professional advice as it considers necessary. 
The Audit Committee recommended to the Board the re-election of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor. 
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman, and at least two non-executive directors. It is chaired by Nigel Keen and comprises 
Tony Reading and Sir Christopher Hum. However, during 2012 all of the directors attended at least some of the meetings as succession 
planning was being discussed. It met on six occasions in 2012. The Nominations Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, regularly 
reviews the structure, size and composition (including the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity) required of 
the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes. At least annually the Nominations Committee reviews the 
performance of the Chief Executive. It is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board 
having regard to the overall skills, balance and composition of the Board. 
The Nominations Committee reviews and advises upon succession planning and takes into account the need to refresh the Board. In 201 1, the 
Nominations Committee appointed Korn/Ferry, an external consultancy, to assist in its work on refreshing the Board. 
As a ﬁrst step, Korn/Ferry conducted individual interviews with each director and the Company Secretary to understand the workings of the 
Board in order to create a Leadership Road Map. The Leadership Road Map has helped the Nominations Committee set out a strategic Board 
development plan and to identify key competencies and requirements for the Board. Korn/Ferry used the plan as the basis for searching for 
a new non-executive director to become Chair of the Audit Committee in 2012. Korn/Ferry’s interviews with the Board also facilitated the 
identiﬁcation of the key operational and strategic requirements for the new Chief Executive, resulting in a detailed job speciﬁcation and high 
level search strategy.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
52 The Nominations Committee considers diversity generally when making appointments to the Board taking into account relevant skills, 
experience, knowledge, personality, ethnicity and gender. The Board fully supports the recommendations of the Davies Report entitled 
‘Women on Boards’ . It is the Company’s aim to have the appropriate level of diversity in the boardroom to reﬂect the diverse nature of the 
Company’s operations. Korn/Ferry has undertaken to ensure that at least 30% of candidates for their long list are women, unless they can 
explicitly justify why this is not the case.
Current gender proﬁle of the Group’s permanent employees
Percentage of women – Leadership Team 19.1 %
Percentage of women – Total Workforce 42.9%
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Tony Reading and currently comprises the Chairman and all the other non-executive directors, 
who are all considered to be independent. It met seven times in 2012 and is responsible for recommending to the Board the Company’s 
general policy on remuneration and in particular to determine the remuneration and beneﬁts of the executive directors, the grant of 
all options and award of shares under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Scheme. In accordance with the Terms of Reference of the 
Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Board is not the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee, 
excluding the Chairman, determines the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment. 
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings and, when requested by the Chairman of the Committee, attends a portion of the meeting. 
Normally, the Chief Executive is consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive directors and employees. 
Further details on the Remuneration Committee are to be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 55 to 66. 
Administration Committee
The Administration Committee of the Board consists of any two or more directors and deals with items of a routine and administrative nature. 
Share capital
Information on the Company’s share capital is set out on page 46 of the directors’ report and in note 29 on page 105.
Internal control
Laird PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with businesses primarily located overseas. These businesses are organised as subsidiary 
companies where the management of these companies are appointed to manage within the framework established by the Laird Board, as 
well as complying with local statutory and regulatory requirements. Overall responsibility for Laird’s systems of internal control and reviewing 
their effectiveness lies with the Laird Board, who ensure that a review is carried out at least annually to assess the adequacy of those systems. 
Primary responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the managers of the subsidiaries. Laird executive directors are responsible for 
implementing Group policy and for monitoring the businesses and performance of operating companies and units and reporting to the Board 
thereon. Financial information is reviewed at business unit and divisional level as well as by Laird’s Finance Department which reviews the 
consolidation and ﬁnancial statements to ensure that the ﬁnancial position and results of the Group are appropriately reﬂected. 
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signiﬁcant risks faced by the Group is in place and complies with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is regularly reviewed by the Board. This 
process has been in place for the full ﬁnancial year and up to the date the accounts were approved by the Board. The systems of internal 
control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives as well as safeguarding the Group’s 
assets. These systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Group operating rules are issued periodically to the managers of subsidiaries setting out their responsibilities and delegated authorities. 
These rules require approval for speciﬁc transactions and call for accurate and relevant ﬁnancial information to be delivered on a timely 
basis. The ability to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting of management information and the short lines of communication with 
operating managers.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
53 Governance
Business units submit their budgets annually to divisional management and to Laird’s executive directors. In addition, through a risk and 
controls assessment process, they are required to identify the key risk and control issues that their businesses face and set out the strategies 
they will employ to manage them. The issues raised by the business units are reviewed by the Board as part of the annual risk review process. 
A risk management update, reporting emergent risks and any changes to the risk environment, is presented at all Board meetings. This 
process is supplemented by papers submitted to the Board by the executive directors throughout the year and by meetings from time to time 
between the Board and the management of the subsidiaries, some of which take place at the premises of the operating companies. The Chief 
Executive presents the Group’s business objectives which are approved by the Board, and the Board also addresses those risks which affect 
Laird as a whole. The Board instigates further reports and investigations as it considers necessary.
During 2012 the risk governance framework was reviewed in light of strategic and organisational changes, following the appointment of 
the new Chief Executive. The Group is transitioning from having two risk bodies, the Risk Management Group and the Risk Management 
Committee which dealt with strategy and operational oversight respectively, to a new single body, the Risk and Governance Group. The Risk 
and Governance Group is chaired by the Chief Executive and includes the Divisional Presidents and the Chief Risk Ofﬁcer, together with the 
other members of the Executive Committee.
As noted above, the Audit Committee reviews the Group and Company’s ﬁnancial statements. It also has responsibility for reviewing the 
process for identifying and managing ﬁnancial risk and for reviewing the internal ﬁnancial controls and considers the scope and planning of 
internal and external audits. It reviews reports on internal ﬁnancial control including reports by the Director of Risk Management and Internal 
Audit and the Finance Director and the results from internal ﬁnancial audits. As part of its audit, the external auditor, to the extent it considers 
necessary to support its audit opinion, reviews and tests the systems of internal control and the data contained in the accounts, including an 
independent and objective review of the approach of management to the reporting of the operating results and ﬁnancial condition.
 
By Order of the Board 
A M Downie 
Secretary
28 February 2013 
 
Registered ofﬁce 
100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ 
Registered in England No. 55513
Corporate governance report
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
54 Summary statement
Dear Shareholder
I am taking this opportunity in my capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee to present our Directors’ remuneration report 
for 2012. I summarise below the aim of our remuneration policy and the work that has been carried out by the Remuneration Committee 
during 2012.
Laird has produced a good result for 2012, delivering increased proﬁt and improving against our strategic targets with good margin 
progression. Our continued focus will be on driving growth in proﬁt and long-term sustainable shareholder value and we consider that our 
remuneration policy will play a vital role in helping us to achieve this.
The main aim of our remuneration policy is to attract and retain executives of the appropriate calibre and experience needed to manage the 
international complexity of Laird’s operations and to incentivise and reward the delivery of outstanding business results.
The Committee believes that it has developed a remuneration structure that will continue to support and motivate our senior team, whilst 
aligning them both to the Company’s strategic objectives and the interests of our shareholders. As such, no major changes were made in 
2012, however shareholders were consulted on performance conditions for share awards granted during the year and further consultation has 
now been carried out in relation to the new share plan, as outlined on page 58.
During the year the Remuneration Committee:
 Carefully considered and agreed the remuneration package for the new Chief Executive.
 Approved the termination package for the previous Chief Executive (as set out on page 58 of this report).
 Reviewed the base salary of the Finance Director and determined that it would remain unchanged.
 Consulted with key shareholders during February 2012 on the performance conditions for awards under the LTIP and Option Plan.
 Approved a new Medium Term Incentive Plan for the Company’s key executives below Board level.
 Reviewed the fees for the Chairman and recommended an increase to the Board when he reverted to being Non-Executive Chairman 
following the appointment of the new Chief Executive.
 Commenced work on the new share plan to be recommended to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, given the expiry of 
the existing plans in 2013, and began the consultation process with key shareholders.
The Committee has reviewed the new disclosure regulations proposed by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and, although 
the new disclosure regime has not yet come into effect, we have taken the opportunity to add greater clarity to the report where we can in 
incorporating a number of the proposed features this year.
A resolution to approve the Directors’ remuneration report will be put forward at this year’s Annual General Meeting, which I hope that you will 
be able to support. At last year’s Annual General Meeting 98.55 % of shares voted were in favour or at discretion for the resolution approving 
the remuneration report and only 1.45 % voted against. Votes ‘withheld’ as a percentage of the issued share capital were 4.43 %.
Yours sincerely 
 
Tony Reading 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Directors’ remuneration report
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
55 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Introduction
The role of the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) is to recommend to the Board the Company’s general policy on remuneration 
and in particular to determine the remuneration for the Chairman and the executive directors. The Chairman does not attend discussions on 
his own remuneration.
The Committee has adopted the principles of good governance relating to directors’ remuneration as set out in The UK Corporate 
Governance Code and also complies with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and with the relevant provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006 and the regulations thereunder (the ‘Regulations’).
The Regulations require that the Company’s auditor should report to shareholders on certain parts of this Report and state whether in its 
opinion those parts of it have been properly prepared in accordance with the above Regulations. A resolution to approve this Report will be 
proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 3 May 2013 and details are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board.
The Company’s remuneration policy and practices are kept under regular review by the Committee which consults with the Company’s major 
shareholders and their representative bodies as appropriate. 
The Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee are appointed by the Board and the membership is reviewed at least annually.  
The Chairman of the Committee is appointed by the Board and cannot be the Chairman of the Board. The current members are:
Tony Reading (Remuneration Committee Chairman) 
Paula Bell (appointed March 2012) 
Sir Christopher Hum 
Nigel Keen (Chairman of the Board) 
Professor Michael Kelly
Andrew Robb and Dr William Spivey were members of the Committee until their retirement as directors on 4 May 2012.
All members are independent non-executive directors, other than Nigel Keen who undertook the role of Executive Chairman whilst the 
Company sought a new Chief Executive. Nigel Keen stepped down from his executive role on 13 August 2012. The Board considers it essential 
that the Chairman of the Board be involved in setting remuneration policy and therefore he is a member of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Chairman does not attend discussions on his own remuneration. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
During the year, Deloitte LLP provided independent external professional advice to the Remuneration Committee. Deloitte is a member  
of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration 
consulting in the UK. Deloitte also provide internal audit services to Laird PLC. The Remuneration Committee is satisﬁed that no conﬂict of 
interest exists in the provision of these services. Deloitte’s performance was formally reviewed by the Committee in December 2012 and the 
Committee was satisﬁed with their performance.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee also sought the views of David Lockwood who became Chief Executive on 13 August 2012. 
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings and, at the request of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, attends the 
meetings. The Chief Executive may request that he attends and speaks at Committee meetings. In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive 
will be consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive directors and employees. 
The written Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Company’s website and from the Company on request. 
The Committee met seven times in 2012. Details of the attendance at Committee meetings are given on page 50.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
56 Policy report
Remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee has established a policy on the remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman; and the Board has 
established a policy on the remuneration of the other non-executive directors. 
Executive directors
The policy for the executive directors is to structure the remuneration package so that no single aspect dominates. Therefore there  
is a mixture of ﬁxed remuneration and performance-related remuneration, with the latter split between annual bonuses, with a range  
of different measures, and longer-term share incentives, which use more than one performance target. Further details are set out below.
The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for executive directors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Performance measures
Base salary Core element of remuneration,  
set at a level which is sufﬁciently  
competitive to recruit and retain 
management of the appropriate  
calibre and experience
Reviewed annually, normally in July,  
taking into account a number of  
factors including market practice,  
the individual’s performance, the 
performance of Laird and other pay 
structures within Laird
N/A
Beneﬁts Support individuals in carrying out  
their roles, including the provision  
of a car or car allowance and health 
insurance
Reviewed periodically to ensure  
beneﬁts remain market competitive
N/A
Annual bonus Incentivises the achievement of 
a range of short-term performance 
targets that are key to the success of 
the Company
Awarded annually, with the level  
of payout determined by the Committee 
following the year end, based on 
performance against targets
Performance is assessed over one 
ﬁnancial year, based on achievement 
of a range of ﬁnancial and strategic 
targets and having regard to 
environmental, social and governance 
issues and the overall risk proﬁle of 
Laird
Long-term incentives Incentivise the achievement  
of long-term ﬁnancial performance  
and sustainable returns to shareholders  
in a way that aligns the interests of 
executives and shareholders
Awards generally vest three years after 
grant, subject to the achievement of 
performance conditions 
Performance is generally assessed 
over a three year performance period, 
based on achievement of targets 
designed to incentivise delivering 
sustainable returns to shareholders 
and the underlying ﬁnancial 
performance of the business
Chairman
The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for the Chairman as decided by the Committee.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Performance measures
Chairman’s fees Core element of remuneration, set at a 
level which reﬂects market conditions 
and is sufﬁcient to attract individuals with 
appropriate knowledge and experience
Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for setting the remuneration 
of the Chairman, taking into account a 
number of factors including market 
practice
N/A
Non-executive directors
The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for non-executive directors as decided by the Board.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Performance measures
Non-executive director fees Core element of remuneration,  
set at a level which reﬂects  
market conditions and is sufﬁcient  
to attract individuals with appropriate 
knowledge and experience
The Board as a whole is responsible  
for setting the remuneration of  
the non-executive directors, taking 
into account a number of factors 
including market practice
N/A
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
57 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Service agreements
Each of the executive directors has a service agreement. David Lockwood’s and Jonathan Silver’s service agreements are dated 9 July 2012 
and 8 March 2004 respectively. In line with the Company’s policy, the executive directors’ service agreements are not for a ﬁxed term and 
provide for twelve months’ written notice of termination from either party. The Company’s policy on termination is to comply with the 
contractual terms and conditions set out in the service agreement. The Company may, at its election, make a payment in lieu of notice. 
The payment would be calculated as the total of the director’s base salary plus the value of his beneﬁts, in each case by reference to the 
period of the unexpired notice of termination. 
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but are appointed under letters of appointment which provide for a review 
after an initial three year term. The Chairman’s appointment, which is subject to the rotation provisions of the Articles of Association, may 
be terminated by either party giving not less than six months’ notice. Further details are set out on page 63. After the initial three year term, 
the appointment is reviewed and, in the past, the appointment would be renewed for a further three year term. However, due to the change 
in The UK Corporate Governance Code, which requires annual re-election of directors, the Board decided that the term of appointment for 
a non-executive director would now be one year after an initial three year term. Professor Michael Kelly, Tony Reading, Sir Christopher Hum 
and Nigel Keen, whose terms came up for review during the year, were re-appointed for one year terms, subject to annual review thereafter. 
The appointment of a non-executive director is subject to termination if he or she ceases to be qualiﬁed to act as a director of the Company; 
if he or she resigns by written notice; or if he or she is not re-elected under the Company’s Articles of Association. Dates of appointment are 
shown on page 45.
Pay and conditions of the wider workforce
In setting the remuneration policy for directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of Laird is taken into account, including any 
base salary increases awarded. However, with 81 % of employees in Asia, 10% in North America and 9% in Europe, only broad trends are 
considered. In 2012 salary increases for management level employees ranged from 0 to 8% depending on several factors, including the 
region where they work and individual performance. Greater increases were awarded to certain individuals as a result of promotions or 
signiﬁcant increases in the scale or geographic scope of their responsibilities.
Shareholder views
The Committee takes the views of the shareholders very seriously and these views have been inﬂuential in shaping remuneration policy 
and practice. Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting on-going remuneration strategy and the Committee commits 
to consulting with shareholders prior to any signiﬁcant changes to its remuneration policy. 
In February 2012, we consulted with key shareholders on the performance conditions for awards under the LTIP and Option Plan and 
further consultation has now been carried out in relation to the new share plan to be recommended to shareholders at the 2013 Annual 
General Meeting.
 
Implementation report
Executive directors
Directors leaving the Board
Peter Hill stepped down as Chief Executive with effect from 25 November 201 1, due to ill health. Under the terms of his contract of 
employment, Mr Hill was entitled to remain in employment on his existing salary and beneﬁts until 25 November 2012. Subsequently Mr Hill’s 
doctor certiﬁed him as ﬁt for work and a compromise agreement to terminate his contract was signed on 10 August 2012. Under the terms of 
Mr Hill’s service contract dated 8 March 2004, the Company was entitled to make a payment in lieu of notice of one year’s salary and beneﬁts 
on termination. The total compensation paid to Peter Hill for the year was £728,81 7 which was based on salary and beneﬁts payable under his 
contract of employment pro-rated for the period from 10 August 2012 to 30 April 2013, as follows: 
£
Base salary 438,814
25 % of base salary in lieu of bonus 109,703
40% of base salary in lieu of pension contribution 1 75,525
Cash in lieu of medical beneﬁts 4,775
728,81 7
His awards under the L TIP and Option Plan were dealt with in accordance with the respective plan rules and details are set out on pages 64 and 65. 
The total gain on options and L TIPs exercised during the year was £ 1 ,7 42,064.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
58 Executive directors’ remuneration
The executive directors receive base salary, annual performance incentive awards up to a maximum percentage of base salary, other 
beneﬁts, and long-term performance awards which are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee. Details of pension and/or pay in 
lieu of pension are shown on page 62. On a regular basis, the Committee requests its independent consultants to undertake a benchmarking 
exercise on base pay. The most recent benchmarking exercise was undertaken in 2012 and covered all aspects of the remuneration package 
for the executive directors and other senior executives. The previous benchmarking exercise was carried out in December 2010. The 
remuneration package for the new Chief Executive was carefully considered and advice was sought from Deloitte on current market practice.
Performance linked incentives are a key component of the total remuneration package. In addition to the annual performance 
incentive award, the Remuneration Committee makes awards under the Company’s LTIP and Option Plan. A summary of these arrangements 
is set out on pages 59 to 61 below. The Committee believes that a combination of share options and LTIP awards for senior executives is an 
appropriate way of providing the incentive to create substantial improvement in the Company’s performance in a way that aligns the interests 
of executives and shareholders.
Beneﬁts comprise the provision of a car or car allowance, life, disability and health insurance, participation in the annual performance 
incentive award scheme and membership of a pension scheme or pay in lieu of pension provision. Performance incentive awards  
and beneﬁts in kind are not pensionable and are not taken into account in determining payments in lieu of pension.
Base salary
Jonathan Silver’s salary has not been increased since 1 July 2008 and will next be reviewed in July 2013. 
Annual performance incentive awards
The maximum award, for exceptional performance, that could be earned for 2012 was 100% of base salary. Target awards were 75 % of base 
salary. In David Lockwood’s case the bonus is pro-rated from the date employment commenced. The award criteria established for 2012 were 
based on the following:
(i)  underlying proﬁt before tax (45 % of the maximum); 
(ii) working capital metrics (10% of the maximum);
(iii)  the achievement of criteria designed to assess and drive performance against a number of key, measurable strategic objectives for 
the Company, including those relating to environmental, health and safety (20% of the maximum); and
(iv) exceptional performance (25 % of the maximum). 
The speciﬁc criteria used above are not disclosed for reasons of commercial sensitivity, but in the case of (iii) above include, inter alia, the 
successful implementation of Laird’s strategy; the implementation of a new organisational structure; organic growth and development of 
the customer base. The proﬁt target was based on a combination of budgets and market estimates for the year. 
In determining the awards for 2012, the Remuneration Committee took into account that underlying proﬁt before tax in 2012 was 1 7% higher 
than in 201 1, and that operating cash conversion, after capital expenditure, in 2012 was excellent at 109%, notwithstanding the signiﬁcant 
growth in proﬁts in the year.
David Lockwood’s bonus was 47 .5 % of base salary reﬂecting that he was not employed for the full year. Jonathan Silver’s bonus was 70% of 
base salary (201 1, 75 % ). 
Long-term incentives – share plans
The share incentive plans currently operated by the Company for the executive directors are the LTIP and Option Plan. 
Each time awards are made under the LTIP and the Option Plan, the Committee carefully considers the performance measures to be used, 
including whether to use non-ﬁnancial Key Performance Indicators. For the awards made in 2012 it was concluded that both Total Shareholder 
Return (‘TSR’) and underlying Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) be used for both plans and that they were the most appropriate measures for aligning 
the objectives of executives with those of shareholders. These are described in more detail below.
The LTIP and Option Plan may use either market purchased shares or newly issued shares, provided that no new shares may be issued if, 
as a result, the number of shares issued or capable of issue pursuant to grants of awards made within the preceding ten year period under 
these plans and all other share plans operated by the Company would exceed 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital from 
time to time.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
59 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Both of these plans will expire in May 2013 and the Remuneration Committee recommends that a new Long-Term Incentive Plan for 
the award of both options and LTIPs be put in place, as it believes these are the most appropriate way of providing the incentive to 
create substantial improvement in the Company’s continuing long-term performance in a way that aligns the interests of executives and 
shareholders. The Remuneration Committee felt it was important to take the opportunity of the share schemes coming up for renewal to 
introduce some new best practice terms and therefore the key changes proposed for the new Plan are the introduction of a 5 % in ten year 
dilution limit; a reduced threshold for vesting at 25 % (currently 30% ); and the introduction of claw back provisions. Further details of the 
proposed new share Plan are set out in the Company’s Notice of Annual General Meeting. 
a) The LTIP
The LTIP involves the award of shares which only vest after the achievement of demanding performance targets measured over three 
years. Executive directors are eligible for a maximum annual award of shares of one times base salary. In setting the level of awards, the 
Remuneration Committee takes into account options granted to executive directors under the Option Plan in the same ﬁnancial year.
Awards under the LTIP take the form of nil cost options or conditional awards (in order to comply with US tax legislation) to be satisﬁed by shares 
from the Laird 1990 Employee Beneﬁt T rust (‘the T rust’) purchased in the market. Further details on the T rust are in note 31 on page 108. 
The level of awards in 2012 was considered by the Committee and the awards made to each director equated to 100% of base salary  
(201 1, 100% ). In deciding this, the Committee took into account the level of award under the Option Plan described below. These awards 
promote the common interests of the executive directors and shareholders in the delivery of above market growth in shareholder value in 
future years.
In accordance with the rules of the LTIP , outstanding awards may vest and/or become exercisable before their normal vesting date 
in the event of a change of control of the Company. The rules of the LTIP also permit the waiver of performance criteria in certain limited 
circumstances, such as a change of control, death or retirement.
The amount charged to the income statement during the year in respect of the LTIP awards granted to the executive directors was £198,000 
(201 1, £498,000). The fair value for accounting purposes was calculated as 68.9% of the face value of the awards made in 2012.
b) The Option Plan
The maximum possible grant of options to executive directors and other employees is over shares with a market value at the time of grant of 
up to one times base salary in any one year and up to two times base salary in special circumstances, such as the recruitment or promotion 
to a key management position. When granting options, the Remuneration Committee takes into account both the level of awards made to 
executive directors under the LTIP and the prevailing share price at the time of grant.
In accordance with the rules of the Option Plan, outstanding options may vest and become exercisable before their normal vesting date in 
the event of a change of control of the Company. The rules of the Option Plan also permit the waiver of performance criteria in certain limited 
circumstances, such as a change of control, death or retirement.
The maximum level of awards under the Option Plan is normally one times base salary, however, the Remuneration Committee considers the 
level of awards in the light of the Company’s business performance and the then current share price level when it decides on the number of 
share options to be awarded. In 2012 the Finance Director’s award equated to 75 % of base salary and the new Chief Executive was awarded 
options equivalent to 100% of his base salary. The Remuneration Committee considers that these awards, together with awards under the 
LTIP described above, incentivise executive directors in the delivery of above market growth in shareholder value in future years. 
The amount charged to the income statement in respect of the share options granted to the executive directors was £77 ,000 
(201 1, £229,000). The fair value for accounting purposes was calculated at 31.8% of the face value of grants made in 2012.
Performance conditions for awards made in 2012 under the LTIP and Option Plan 
Performance conditions are measured over a single three year period and there is no provision for re-testing, therefore the awards lapse 
if the performance targets are not met.
The Committee consulted with key shareholders on the performance conditions for the 2012 awards under the LTIP and Option Plan. Two 
measures were used: achievement of a Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) target and an underlying Earnings per Share (‘EPS’) target. For LTIP 
awards made in 2012, 75 % is based on achievement of the TSR target and 25 % is based on achievement of the EPS target. For awards under 
the Option Plan, 75 % is based on EPS and 25 % on TSR. The EPS and TSR conditions are set out below.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
60 TSR condition
In 201 1, the following list of 20 companies was selected as the comparator group to be used for measuring TSR and the same list was used 
for the 2012 awards.
Amphenol Invensys Sanmina TT Electronics 
AVX Meggitt Senior TTM Technologies
Bodycote Molex Smiths Group Ultra Electronics
CSR Morgan Crucible Spectris Vishay Intertechnology
e2v Technologies Oxford Instruments Spirent Communications Wolfson Microelectronics 
The level of vesting of the applicable portion of the award (75 % of the award under the LTIP; 25 % of the award under the Option Plan)  
is dependent on Laird’s relative TSR performance over three years against this group of companies, as follows:
Total Shareholder Return  
performance level 
Amount of award vesting for TSR measure  
%
Upper quartile  
Median to upper quartile  
Below median
Full vesting  
Pro-rata between 30% and full vesting  
Nil
In addition, the TSR portion of the award will not vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisﬁed that there has been a sustained 
improvement in the Company’s underlying ﬁnancial performance. 
The TSR target for Jonathan Silver will be measured over a three year period from 2 April 2012 to 2 April 2015 and for David Lockwood from 
13 August 2012 to 13 August 2015. 
EPS condition
The level of vesting of the applicable portion of the award (75 % of the award under the Option Plan; 25 % of the award under the LTIP)  
is dependent on Laird’s EPS performance for the 2014 ﬁnancial year, as follows:
Level of vesting in 2015 for EPS measure
Applicable performance target:  
Average annual growth in continuing earnings per share
Threshold 30% vesting  
Full vesting
RPI + 5 % p.a 
RPI + 10% p.a
There is pro-rata vesting on a straight-line basis where EPS is between the above two targets.
Earnings per share is calculated with reference to underlying earnings per share before exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from 
the fair valuing of ﬁnancial instruments and acquisition transaction costs as stated in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Vesting of awards made in 2010 under the LTIP and Option Plan
81.85 % of the awards made under the LTIP in 2010 will vest on 19 April 2013 as the performance criteria for total shareholder return to 
31 December 2012 was partially met as Laird’s TSR to 31 December 2012 was 78% compared with a median of 49% for the FTSE 250.
Options granted under the Option Plan in 2010 also partially met the performance criteria of 16.6 pence EPS for 30% vesting and 21.3 pence 
EPS for full vesting and 67 .2% will become exercisable on 2 August 2013.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
61 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Pensions
Jonathan Silver is a member of a UK Group contributory deﬁned beneﬁts scheme. The main beneﬁts are: on pension retirement at age 60, 
a maximum pension of two-thirds ﬁnal salary (excluding bonuses and other beneﬁts) dependent on service; on death in retirement,  
a dependant’s pension of 60% of the member’s pension; on death in service, a lump sum of four times salary and a dependant’s pension  
of 20% of salary or 60% of the member’s expected pension, if higher. Pensions in payment for Jonathan Silver will increase by the lesser of 
the increase in the retail price index or 8.5 % per annum compound. Transfer values provided on leaving service do not include any allowances 
for discretionary beneﬁts.
Following the introduction of the A Day legislation in April 2006, Jonathan Silver’s pension has ceased to accrue within the deﬁned beneﬁts 
scheme. In light of the Company’s previous pension commitment to Jonathan Silver, he now receives a taxable salary supplement of 40% of 
base salary in lieu of future pension accrual under the pension scheme. This payment in respect of Jonathan Silver is expected to reduce future 
pension risks for the Company. Payments in lieu of pension provision are excluded from the calculation of any bonus entitlements and share 
scheme awards and are not included in the calculations in the table below.
David Lockwood receives a contribution to a personal pension scheme/pay-in-lieu of pension of 25 % of his base salary.
The former Chief Executive, Peter Hill, who ceased to be a director due to ill health in November 201 1, reached age 60 in August 2012.  
He transferred his pension beneﬁts from the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme to another scheme at a value agreed by the Pension Fund Trustees 
having taken actuarial advice. Peter Hill’s beneﬁts in the deﬁned beneﬁts scheme were subject to an earnings cap and they were 
supplemented by an unfunded arrangement to maintain the same level of beneﬁts as if the earnings cap did not apply. Since 1 July 2008, 
Peter Hill received a taxable salary supplement of 40% of base salary in lieu of future accrual of the unfunded arrangement. The unfunded 
arrangement is now in payment from the Company. Under the terms of Peter Hill’s contract of employment, he could continue to receive 
salary and beneﬁts for up to 12 months whilst on sick leave i.e. until 25 November 2012. In the event, he ceased employment on 10 August 
2012. For the purpose of the pension disclosures below, Peter Hill’s pension accrual is shown for the period to 31 March 2012 when he ceased 
pension accrual.
Age at  
31. 1 2. 1 2
Transfer  
value of 
accrued  
pension  
at 31.12.1 1 
£000
Directors’ 
contributions  
in 2012 
£000
Service at  
31. 1 2. 1 2 
yrs
Accrued 
pension  
at 31.12.12
1
 
£000 p.a.
Change in 
accrued  
pension  
during the 
year 
£000
Change in 
accrued  
pension  
during the  
year (net of 
inﬂation)
£000
Transfer  
value of 
accrued 
pension  
at 31.12.12 
£000
Change in 
transfer  
value over  
the year
2
 
£000
J C Silver 55 3,953 – 26 160 5 1 4,039 86
P J Hill
3
60 4,978 2 11 169
4
1(3) 4,960 (20)
1
 payable at Normal Retirement Date
2
 after deduction of directors’ contributions
3
 ceased to be a director on 25 November 2011
4
 Peter Hill’s accrued pension has been valued as at his date of retirement on 28 August 2012 based on 31 December 2012 ﬁnancial conditions
Jonathan Silver ceased to accrue further pension beneﬁts from 6 April 2006, however, his beneﬁts accrued at that date remain linked to any 
growth in his pensionable pay. 
Directors’ share interests and shareholding guidelines
Since 2003 executive directors have been expected to retain, as shares, all of the after-tax proﬁt on the gains made on the vesting of LTIP 
awards and the exercise of share options under the Option Plan, until they have acquired a shareholding equal in value to their base salaries. 
Details of the directors’ share interests are set out below.
No. of shares  
at 31 December
Value of shares  
as a multiple  
of base salary on  
31 December
Total No. of  
share options  
at 31 December
Total No. of LTIP  
awards at  
31 December
Director 2012 201 1 2012 201 1 2012 201 1 2012 201 1
D C Lockwood* 10,300 – 0.05 – 194,775 – 194,775 –
J C Silver 395,000 375,000 2.43 1.72 776,603 850,864 638,894 482,761
* Appointed Chief Executive on 13 August 2012
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
62 Outside appointments
The Board believes that there can be signiﬁcant beneﬁts, to both the Company and the individual, from executive directors accepting  
non-executive directorships of companies outside the Group. The Board takes into account the likely time commitment for such appointments 
prior to approving them. During the year the fees which the executive directors are entitled to retain were as follows:
Director Company
Fee
£
Jonathan Silver INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc 23,000
Non-executive directors
The Board as a whole is responsible for setting the remuneration of the non-executive directors, other than the Chairman whose remuneration 
is determined by the Committee and recommended to the Board. The Chairman does not attend discussions on his own remuneration.
Non-executive directors
Laird’s policy is to establish and maintain a body of non-executive directors with a breadth of international skills and experience that is relevant 
to Laird’s global businesses. In this context, it is the Board’s policy for the non-executive directors to be paid a level of fee that reﬂects market 
conditions and is sufﬁcient to attract individuals with appropriate knowledge and experience.
Chairman
Under an arrangement between the Company and Imperialise Limited, Nigel Keen is retained to act as Chairman of the Company. Nigel 
Keen also acts as Chairman of the trustees of a Laird pension scheme for which he receives no additional remuneration. Nigel Keen’s fees for 
his services, for which he must account to Imperialise Limited, are £190,000 per annum. Following the resignation of the Chief Executive due 
to ill health on 25 November 201 1, Nigel Keen acted as Executive Chairman and his fees were increased to a rate of £609,000 per annum. 
for a temporary period. Following the appointment of David Lockwood as Chief Executive, Nigel Keen’s fees were due to revert to his previous 
rate of £1 75,000 per annum. However, an increase in non-executive directors’ fees had been implemented with effect from 1 January 2012 
and following a review, the Chairman’s fees were increased to £190,000 per annum with effect from 13 August 2012. This fee had not been 
increased since 1 September 2006. 
Imperialise Limited is responsible for Nigel Keen’s National Insurance (‘NI’) and was paid a sum equivalent to the NI on those fees of £62, 155, 
for which it accounts to Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (‘HMRC’) whereas for the other non-executive directors, who are paid through 
Laird’s payroll, NI is paid directly to HMRC. NI payments are not included in the table below. Nigel Keen’s initial period of appointment as 
Chairman was for three years commencing 5 June 2000. His term of appointment was extended by the Board for three further three-year 
periods commencing 5 June 2003, 5 June 2006 and 5 June 2009 and, in accordance with the new policy, for a further twelve months from 
5 June 2012. The appointment, which is subject to the rotation provisions of the Articles of Association, may be terminated by either party 
giving not less than six months’ notice.
Non-executive directors’ fees
Following a review, the non-executive directors’ fees were increased from £36,000 per annum to £44,000 per annum with effect from 
1 January 2012. This was the ﬁrst increase since 1 September 2006. The fees for chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 
remain unchanged at £7 ,000 per annum. Paula Bell’s, Tony Reading’s and Andrew Robb’s emoluments include fees at the rate of £7 ,000 
per annum to reﬂect their chairmanship of Board Committees. Dr William Spivey, who was based in North America, received additional 
remuneration of £5, 161 during the year to take account of additional time spent on the Company’s business. Sir Christopher Hum’s services 
as a non-executive director are supplied by Qilin Consulting Limited. The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not receive any other 
beneﬁts, although the death-in-service cover for the Chairman has been increased whilst he is travelling on Company business.
Remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors:
2012 
£000
201 1 
£000
Nigel Keen, Chairman of the Board
1
450 218
Paula Bell
2
 43 –
Sir Christopher Hum 44 36
Professor Michael Kelly 44 36
Tony Reading 51 43
Andrew Robb
3
18 43
Dr William Spivey
3
20 51
1
  Executive Chairman between 26 November 2011 and 13 August 2012. Following the appointment of David Lockwood and a review by the Remuneration Committee, 
the Chairman’s fees became £190,000 per annum
2
 Appointed 2 March 2012
3
 Retired 4 May 2012
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
63 Governance
Emoluments table
The remuneration of executive directors showing the breakdown between base pay, beneﬁts-in-kind, performance related remuneration, gains 
on share plans and cash in lieu of pension:
Base pay Beneﬁts
Performance 
related 
remuneration
Cash in lieu of 
pension
Gain on share 
plans Total
2012
£000
201 1
£000
2012
£000
201 1
£000
2012
£000
201 1
£000
2012
£000
201 1
£000
2012
£000
201 1
£000
2012
£000
201 1
£000
D C Lockwood
1
213 – 7 – 202 – 53 – – – 475 –
J C Silver 336 336 19 19 235 252 134 134 – – 724 741
P J Hill
2
372 609 13 15 – 335 149 244 1,742 – 2,276 1,203
1
 David Lockwood was employed from 2 July 2012 (and became a director on 13 August 2012)
2 
Peter Hill ceased to be a director with effect from 25 November 2011 but remained an employee on ill health leave until 10 August 2012. Details of Peter Hill’s termination 
package are set out on page 58
Directors’ awards under the LTIP
1. 1. 1 2
Awards 
in 2012
1
Vested/  
exercised 
in 2012
Lapsed 
in 2012 31.12.12
David Lockwood – 194,775 – – 194,775
Jonathan Silver 482,761 156,133 – – 638,894
Peter Hill
2
875,004 – 545,348 329,656 –
1
 Awards made in 2012 were calculated based on a share price of 218.2 pence for David Lockwood and 215.2 pence for Jonathan Silver. The performance criteria for the awards 
made in 2012 are set out on pages 60 and 61
2
 Peter Hill ceased to be a director on 25 November 2011 but remained an employee on sick leave until 10 August 2012. Details of his termination package are set out on page 
58. His LTIP awards were time pro-rated and the performance conditions measured to 10 August 2012. 545,348 shares vested in respect of his Nil Cost LTIP awards which he 
subsequently sold. The gain was £1,155,592.40 based on a share price of 211.9 pence. LTIP awards over 329,656 shares lapsed due to either the application of time pro-ration 
or the performance condition not being fully met. The applicable performance criteria for the LTIPs awarded in 2010 was the Company’s TSR relative to FTSE 250 companies 
(excluding investment trusts) and for the LTIPs awarded in 2011; 75% of the award was measured using the Company’s TSR relative to the group of 20 companies set out on 
page 61 and 25% was based on the attainment of the EPS target set out on pages 105 and 106
The breakdown of outstanding LTIP awards
Date of grant
Number of shares under 
nil cost options as at  
31 December 2012 Exercise period
David Lockwood 13.8.12 194,775 13.8.15-13.8.1 7
194,775
Jonathan Silver 19.4.10 258,462 19.4.13-19.4.15
21.3. 1 1 224,299 21.3. 14-21.3. 16
2.4. 12 156, 133 2.4.15- 2.4. 1 7
638,894
Directors’ remuneration report
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
64 Directors’ options under the Option Plan
1. 1. 1 2
Granted
in 2012
1
Exercised
Lapsed 
in 2012 31.12.12
David Lockwood – 194,775 – – 194,775
Jonathan Silver 850,864 1 1 7 ,100 – 191,361 776,603
Peter Hill
2
1,842,861 – 842,193 502,074 498,594
1
 The performance criteria for options granted in 2012 are set out on pages 60 and 61
2
 Peter Hill ceased to be a director on 25 November 2011 and an employee on 10 August 2012. Details of Peter Hill’s termination package is set out on page 58. Under the  
rules of the Option Plan, to the extent the performance criteria were met, his options remain exercisable for 12 months i.e. until 10 August 2013. Peter Hill exercised options  
over 272,467 shares at a price of 139.66 pence per share; 177 ,266 shares at 169.16 pence per share; 250,328 at 149.80 pence per share and 142,132 at 124.90 pence per share. 
The total gain on exercise of options during the year was £586,472 
The breakdown of outstanding options
Number of shares 
under option as at 
31 December 2012
Exercise 
price (p) Exercise period
David Lockwood
2003 Executive Plan 194,775 218.2 13.8.15-13.8.22
Jonathan Silver
2003 Executive Plan 71,251 169.16 2.6.06-2.6.13
1 12,718 235.08 12.3.07-12.3.14
99,025 280.19 18.3.08-18.3.15
73,778 397 .08 25.4.09-25.4.16
134,507 1 24.90 2.8.13- 2.8.20
168,224 149.80 21.3. 14-21.3.21
117 , 1 00 21 5.20 2.4. 1 5- 2.4.22
776,603
Peter Hill
1
2003 Executive Plan 169,686 235.08 Up until 10.8.13
188,270 280.19 Up until 10.8.13
140,638 397 .08 Up until 10.8.13
498,594
1
 Peter Hill ceased to be a director on 25 November 2011. Under the rules of the Option Plan, options that have met their performance criteria remain exercisable for 12 months 
i.e. until 10 August 2013
There have been no changes in these interests since the year end. The middle market share price at 31 December 2012 was 206.8 pence. 
During the year the share price was in the range of 148. 1 pence to 243.9 pence.
Shareholder voting
At last year’s Annual General Meeting 98.55 % of shares voted were in favour or at discretion for the resolution approving the remuneration 
report and only 1.45 % voted against. Votes ‘withheld’ as a percentage of the issued share capital were 4.43 %. 
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
65 Governance
Performance graph
The graph below shows for the ﬁve years ended 31 December 2012, the total shareholder return on a holding of the Company’s ordinary 
shares compared to a hypothetical holding of the same number and class of shares as those by reference to which the FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment trusts) is calculated, and also the Technology Hardware and Equipment sector of the FTSE. The FTSE 250 and the Technology 
Hardware and Equipment sector have been shown because both are relevant to Laird’s stock market classiﬁcation, investor base and business 
activities. Total shareholder return has been calculated by reference to the relevant share price for each constituent company assuming 
dividends are reinvested.
Total shareholder return for the ﬁve years ended 31 December 2012
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Laird
Jan 08
p
Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12
FTSE 250 Ex-Investment Trusts FTSE All-Share Technology Hardware & Equipment 
In accordance with the Directors’ remuneration report regulations, the ten tables setting out directors’ remuneration, pensions, LTIP awards 
and share options contained within the report have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP; the statements of policy and the total shareholder 
return graph have not been audited.
This report was adopted by the Remuneration Committee at a meeting on 21 February 2013 and has been approved subsequently by Laird 
PLC’s Board for submission to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 May 2013.
By Order of the Board 
A J Reading 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
28 February 2013
Directors’ remuneration report
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
66 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
in relation to the Group ﬁnancial statements
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditor’s statement of their responsibilities on pages 68 and 69, 
is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and the Auditor in relation to the 
ﬁnancial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law, the Disclosure and T ransparency Rules and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are required to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year which present a true and fair view of the ﬁnancial position 
of the Group and the ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows of the Group for that period. In preparing those ﬁnancial statements on a going 
concern basis, the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then 
apply them consistently;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc requirements in IFRS as adopted by the EU is insufﬁcient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial 
performance; and
 state that the Group has complied with IFRS as adopted by the EU, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
ﬁnancial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the ﬁnancial 
position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities. They are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial 
information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We conﬁrm that, to the best of our knowledge:
(i)  the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial 
position and result of the Group taken as a whole; and
(ii)  the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board
 
David Lockwood Jonathan Silver 
Chief Executive Finance Director
28 February 2013
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
67 Financial accounts
Independent auditor’s report
 to the members of Laird PLC
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Group income 
statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group statement of ﬁnancial 
position, the Group cash ﬂow statement and the related notes 1 to 35. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 67 , the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
Group ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on 
the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Group ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Group ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable 
assurance that the Group ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
Group ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Group ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the Group ﬁnancial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its proﬁt for the year then ended;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and 
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the information given in the Directors’ report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
Group ﬁnancial statements; and
 the information given in the Corporate governance report set out on pages 49 to 54 with respect to internal control and risk management 
systems in relation to ﬁnancial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
68 Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 a Corporate governance report has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 the directors’ statement, set out on page 47 , in relation to going concern; and
 the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code speciﬁed for our review; and
 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the 
information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
 




Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
69 Financial accounts
Group income statement
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Note 201 2  
£m
201 1  
£m
Continuing operations
 4 Revenue
Performance Materials 324.7 305.0
Wireless Systems 195.5 186.3
520.2 491.3
Operating proﬁt before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items 68.1 58.4
1 7 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (13.9) (1 4. 1 )
 7 Exceptional items (2.1) (8. 1 )
 6 Operating proﬁt 52.1 36.2
10 Finance revenue 1.5 0.4
10 Finance costs (8.4) (7 .5)
10 Financial instruments – fair value adjustments 0.4 (0.2)
35 Other net ﬁnance (costs) / revenue – pension (0.5) 0.4
Proﬁt before tax from continuing operations 45.1 29.3
11 Taxation (11.5) (1 7 . 1 )
Proﬁt from continuing operations 33.6 12.2
Discontinued operations
12 Proﬁt / (loss) from discontinued operations 12.9 (1 31.2)
Proﬁt / (loss) for the year 46.5 (1 1 9.0)
Earnings per share 
13 Basic on proﬁt for the year from continuing operations 12.7p 4.6p
13 Diluted on proﬁt for the year from continuing operations 12.5p 4.6p
13 Basic on proﬁt / (loss) for the year 17 .5p (44.8)p
13 Diluted on proﬁt / (loss) for the year 17 .3p (44.8)p
14 Underlying proﬁt before tax* 
Continuing 60.7 51.7
Underlying basic earnings per share* 
Basic from continuing operations 19. 1p 16.2p
Diluted from continuing operations 18.9p 16.0p
* before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, exceptional items, deferred tax on the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and US capitalised 
development costs, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of ﬁnancial instruments and acquisition transaction costs.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
70 Group statement of 
comprehensive income
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Group statement of changes in equity
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Note 2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Proﬁt / (loss) for the year 46.5 (1 1 9.0)
35 Net actuarial (loss) / gain on retirement beneﬁt obligations (1. 1) 0.7
Exchange differences on retranslation of overseas net investments (20.3) 1.4
Exchange gains transferred to discontinued in income statement (7.7) –
Exchange differences on net investment hedges 7.3 (0.5)
Other comprehensive income for the year (21.8) 1.6
Total comprehensive income / (loss) for the year – attributable to equity shareholders 24.7 (1 1 7 .4)
Note 
 
Ordinary 
 share capital 
£m
Share  
premium 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Treasury  
shares  
£m
T otal  
£m
for the year to 31 December 201 1
At 1 January 201 1 74.9 269.7 121.0 1 10.7 (1.4) 574.9
Loss for the year – – (1 19.0) – – (1 19.0)
Other comprehensive income – – 0.7 0.9 – 1.6
Total comprehensive (loss) / income – – (1 18.3) 0.9 – (1 1 7 .4)
30 Share based payments – – 1.3 – – 1.3
31 Treasury shares ––––––
Vesting of LTIPs / Restricted shares – – (0.4) – 0.4 –
15 Dividends paid – – (18.4) – – (18.4)
At 31 December 2011 74.9 269.7 (14.8) 111.6 (1.0) 440.4
for the year to 31 December 2012
At 1 January 2012 74.9 269.7 (14.8) 1 1 1.6 (1.0) 440.4
Proﬁt for the year – – 46.5 – – 46.5
Other comprehensive income – – (1.1) (20.7) – (21.8)
Total comprehensive income / (loss) – – 45.4 (20.7) – 24.7
Exercise of share options 0.3 1.3 – – – 1.6
30 Share based payments – – 1.8 – – 1.8
31 Treasury shares –––– (4.4) (4.4)
Vesting of LTIPs – – (1.1) – 1.1 –
15 Dividends paid – – (23.2) – – (23.2)
At 31 December 2012 75.2 271.0 8.1 90.9 (4.3) 440.9
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
71 Financial accounts
Group statement of ﬁnancial position
as at 31 December 201 2
Note 2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
16 Property, plant and equipment 71.2 83.6
1 7 Intangible assets 513.5 515.3
25 Deferred tax assets 6.2 2.4
35 Retirement beneﬁt assets 7.0 7. 1
Other non-current assets 0.9 1.4
598.8 609.8
Current assets
19 Inventories 50.6 57 .3
20 Trade and other receivables 116.8 135.6
Income tax receivable 0.7 1.0
28 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 0.6 0.2
28 Other current ﬁnancial assets – 5.8
21 Cash and cash equivalents 68.7 70.6
237.4 270.5
Liabilities
Current liabilities
22 Borrowings (0.3) (4.0)
24 Trade and other payables (98.4) (1 20.5)
Current tax liabilities (6.2) (4.8)
27 Provisions (1.7) (4.4)
(106.6) (1 33.7)
Net current assets 130.8 136.8
Non-current liabilities
22 Borrowings (175.2) (1 90. 1 )
Income tax payable (22.8) (30.7)
25 Deferred tax liabilities (76.1) (72.8)
35 Retirement beneﬁt obligations (8.5) (6. 1 )
26 Other non-current liabilities (1.0) (1.5)
27 Provisions (5.1) (5.0)
(288.7) (306.2)
Net assets 440.9 440.4
Capital and reserves
29 Equity share capital 75.2 74.9
Share premium 271.0 269.7
Retained earnings 8.1 (1 4.8)
31 Translation reserve 90.9 111.6
31 Treasury shares (4.3) (1.0)
Total shareholders’ equity 440.9 440.4
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
 
D C Lockwood 
J C Silver 
Directors
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
72 Note 2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
32 Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 93.4 61.2
Tax paid (17 .9) (9.5)
Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 75.5 51.7
Cash ﬂow from investing activities
Interest received 1.5 0.4
32 Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired) (31.9) (1 9.0)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (13.6) (12.0)
Purchase of intangible assets (internally developed) (8.5) (9. 1 )
32 Inﬂow / (outﬂow) from sale of businesses 15.5 (0.3)
Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 2.1 –
Decrease / (increase) in ﬁnancial assets 5.7 (5.5)
Net cash ﬂows from investing activities (29.2) (45.5)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Interest and other ﬁnance costs paid (8.5) (7 .4)
Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 1.6 –
31 Movement in treasury shares (4.4) –
(Decrease) / increase in borrowings (11.3) 33.7
Dividends paid to shareholders (23.2) (18.4)
Net cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities (45.8) 7.9
Effects of movements in foreign exchange rates (2.4) 1.9
(Decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents for the year (1.9) 16.0
32 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 70.6 54.6
32 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 68.7 70.6
Group cash ﬂow statement
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
73 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
 for the year ended 31 December 201 2
1 Authorisation of ﬁnancial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
The Group’s ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 28 February 
2013 and the statement of ﬁnancial position was signed on the Board’s behalf by D C Lockwood and J C Silver. Laird PLC is a public limited 
company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group’s ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in 
the European Union (IFRS) and the principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2. 
2 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for derivative ﬁnancial instruments, that have 
been measured at fair value, and accounting for pensions. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all 
values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand unless otherwise indicated. The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity 
with generally accepted accounting principles requires the directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts 
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the ﬁnancial statements and the reported income and expense during 
the reporting periods. Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the directors’ best knowledge of the amount, events or 
actions, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a signiﬁcant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year are the measurement and impairment of goodwill, the measurement of deﬁned beneﬁt pension assets 
and obligations and the measurement of income and deferred taxes. The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis 
and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated. This involves 
estimation of future cash ﬂows and choosing a suitable discount rate (see note 1 7). Measurement of deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligations 
requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inﬂation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on assets and the selection of 
a suitable discount rate (see note 35). The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of tax jurisdictions and judgements are applied in 
deciding the level of provisions for income taxes. To the extent that the ﬁnal outcome differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments 
will be made to provisions held in the period the determination is made. 
The accounting policies set out below have been used to prepare the ﬁnancial information.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated Group comprises Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings (‘the Group’). The ﬁnancial statements of the subsidiaries are 
prepared as of the same reporting date as the parent, using consistent accounting policies where appropriate. Intra-group balances and 
transactions are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date on which the Group 
ceases to control them.
All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of a business combination is measured as the aggregate 
of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of any assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group. For 
acquisitions before 1 January 2010, costs directly attributable to the combination were capitalised. The identiﬁable assets and liabilities of 
the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s 
interest in the net fair value of the identiﬁable assets, including those of an intangible and tangible nature and liabilities is recognised as 
goodwill.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
74 2 Accounting policies continued
Currency translation
The ﬁnancial statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries are prepared using its functional currency. The functional currency is the currency 
of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates. The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and 
liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
In the Group accounts the results and cash ﬂows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted average rates of exchange 
for the period. Net investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. 
Exchange differences arising from retranslating opening net investments and the retained proﬁts for the period of overseas subsidiaries, less 
exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against overseas investments, are shown as movements in equity. 
All other exchange differences are dealt with in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. On disposal of a foreign 
operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders’ equity that relate to the disposed operation are transferred to the 
income statement.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received and excludes intra-group sales and value-added taxes and represents net 
invoice value.
Revenue is recognised when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party, the amount of revenue can 
be measured reliably, and it is probable that the economic beneﬁts associated with the transaction will ﬂow to the Group.
Retirement beneﬁt obligations
Under IAS 19 the assets and liabilities of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans are recognised at fair value in the statement of ﬁnancial position and 
the operating and ﬁnancing costs of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans are recognised in the income statement as operating costs and interest 
costs respectively. Variations from expected costs, arising from the experience of the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised 
immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
The cost of providing beneﬁts under the deﬁned beneﬁt plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, 
which attributes entitlement to beneﬁts to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the current and prior periods (to 
determine the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. The assets of deﬁned beneﬁt plans are recognised 
at fair value in the statement of ﬁnancial position and the liabilities are recognised at present value using a high quality corporate bond rate. 
The Group applies IFRIC 14, which allows the Group to recognise a surplus in schemes where an unconditional right to a refund or beneﬁt 
available in the form of reduced contribution rates exists. 
Contributions to deﬁned contribution schemes are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
Share based payments
The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), Medium Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) and Restricted Share Plan (RSP) shares awarded is 
estimated at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP , 
MTIP and RSP shares were awarded including market based performance conditions. The fair value of share options granted is estimated at 
the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were 
granted. Non-market Company performance and service conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
No expense is recognised for grants that do not vest and charges previously made are reversed except that an expense is recognised for grants 
where vesting is conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is 
satisﬁed, provided all the other vesting conditions are satisﬁed. 
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has 
expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that 
will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The movement in 
cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
75 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
2 Accounting policies continued
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modiﬁed, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modiﬁed. 
In addition, an expense is recognised for any modiﬁcation, which increases the total fair value of the share based payment, or is otherwise 
beneﬁcial to the employee as measured at the date of modiﬁcation.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation or settlement, 
and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately.
Intangible assets
Acquired intangible assets, including patents, trade secrets, brand names and customer relationships, are recognised separately from goodwill 
and capitalised at fair value and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives. Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis. The estimated useful life of an intangible asset ranges between 3 and 20 years depending on its nature.
Research and development
Research and development expenditure is expensed as it is incurred, except for certain development costs, which are capitalised as 
intangible assets when it is probable that the development project will be commercially viable, and certain criteria, including commercial 
and technological feasibility have been met. Intangible assets arising in this manner are amortised over their useful economic lives, from 
the product launch date, which is typically less than 4 years. Intangible assets relating to products in the development phase, both internally 
generated and externally acquired, are subject to an impairment review at each balance sheet date, or earlier should indication of impairment 
arise. Any impairment losses are written off immediately to the income statement.
Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired. Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration 
given for a business exceeds the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying 
value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for 
impairment at that date. Goodwill set off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining 
any subsequent proﬁt or loss on disposal.
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax 
rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the ﬁnancial statements, with the following exceptions:
 where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt or loss;
 in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and
 deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related 
asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise income tax is 
recognised in the income statement or statement of comprehensive income.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
76 2 Accounting policies continued
Dividends
Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings on the earlier date of payment or the date on which they become a legal liability of 
the Company.
Interest
Interest is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises the 
purchase price and directly attributable costs, for example, initial delivery and handling costs and installation and assembly costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. For all other property, plant, and equipment depreciation is calculated on a 
straight line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years or less
Leasehold buildings 50 years or the lease term if less
Computer equipment 5 years or less
Motor vehicles 4 years
Other plant and machinery 13 years or less
A proportion of one year’s depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each ﬁnancial year end.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. This is determined for an individual 
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inﬂows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. If the 
asset does not generate cash inﬂows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of 
the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, 
the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks speciﬁc to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories 
consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Leases
Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a ﬁnance lease. 
All other leases are treated as operating leases, and the related charges are expensed to the income statement evenly over the lease term.
Assets held under ﬁnance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at fair value. Each asset is depreciated over the 
shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the asset. The obligations relating to ﬁnance leases, net of ﬁnance charges in respect of future 
periods, are included as appropriate under current, or non-current, trade and other payables. The interest element of the rental obligation is 
allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reﬂect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each 
accounting period.
Segment reporting
Segments are identiﬁed on the basis of management information which is presented to the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker to assess 
the performance of each segment.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
77 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
2 Accounting policies continued
Exceptional items
These items are presented within the relevant income statement category. The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a better 
indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. Events which may give rise to the classiﬁcation of items as exceptional include 
the restructuring of businesses, the transaction costs of acquiring new businesses, the integration of new businesses, gains or losses on the 
disposal of businesses, and asset impairments.
Financial assets 
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables. Trade and other receivables are recognised on the 
trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset and are measured at amortised cost less any provision for 
impairment. A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or signiﬁcant ﬁnancial 
difﬁculties of the debtor) that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying 
amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as 
irrecoverable. Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material. 
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a ﬁnancial asset or group of ﬁnancial assets is impaired. Gains and losses are 
recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired. 
Derivative ﬁnancial assets are classiﬁed as held for trading, unless they are designated as hedging instruments. These assets are carried in the 
balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses in value being recognised in the income statement.
A ﬁnancial asset (or, where applicable a part of a ﬁnancial asset or part of a group of similar ﬁnancial assets) is derecognised where:
 the rights to receive cash ﬂows from the asset have expired; or
 the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash ﬂows from the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards 
of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of 
the asset.
Financial liabilities
All ﬁnancial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less, in the case of a liability not at fair value through proﬁt or loss, directly attributable 
transaction costs. Measurement after initial recognition is at amortised cost, with the changes in the carrying amount being taken through the 
income statement.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses arising on the 
repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in ﬁnance income and ﬁnance expense. All other 
borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
A ﬁnancial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedging
The Group may use derivative ﬁnancial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated 
with foreign currency and interest rate ﬂuctuations. Such derivative ﬁnancial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on 
which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair 
value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the income statement. Derivatives are carried as assets when the 
fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity 
proﬁles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. In accordance with 
the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 7 these are Level 2 derivative ﬁnancial instruments.
For those contracts designated as hedges the hedging relationship is documented at its inception. This documentation identiﬁes the hedging 
instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its 
duration. Such hedges are tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to be effective and periodically throughout their duration to 
assess continuing effectiveness.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
78 2 Accounting policies continued
Cash ﬂow hedges
These are used to hedge potential changes in cash ﬂows of highly probable forecast transactions. For cash ﬂow hedges, the effective portion 
of the fair value movement on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in proﬁt 
or loss. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects proﬁt or loss, such as when 
a forecast sale or purchase occurs. Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are 
transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-ﬁnancial asset or liability.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to proﬁt or loss. If the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts 
previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income statement or to the 
initial carrying amount of a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability as above. If the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to 
proﬁt or loss.
Net investment hedges
These are used to hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign operations. The portion of the 
gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in shareholders’ equity, with any ineffective 
portion recognised in the income statement.
Treasury shares
The Laird PLC shares held in the Laird 1990 Employee Beneﬁt Trust (‘the Trust’) are classiﬁed in shareholders’ equity as ‘treasury shares’ and 
are recognised at cost. Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds 
from sale and the original cost being taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, 
sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash in the statement of ﬁnancial position comprises cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity in three 
months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash ﬂow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as deﬁned above, 
net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. For ﬁnished goods and work in progress, cost includes directly attributable 
costs and certain overhead expenses (principally administration costs) are excluded. Net realisable value is determined as estimated selling 
price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provisions
These comprise liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or 
constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outﬂow of resources embodying economic beneﬁts will be required to settle 
the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are discounted where the time value of 
money is material.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
79 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
2 Accounting policies continued
New standards and interpretations not applied 
At the date of authorisation of these ﬁnancial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these 
ﬁnancial statements were in issue but not yet effective for the ﬁnancial period:
International Accounting Financial Reporting Standards (IAS/IFRS)
Effective date
IFRS 7 Amendment – Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities: Disclosures 1 January 2013
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013
IFRS 1 1 Joint arrangements 1 January 2013
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013
IAS 19 (revised) Amendments – Employee Beneﬁts 1 January 2013
IAS 27 (revised) Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2013
IAS 28 (revised) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2013
Annual improvements to IFRS’s 2009 – 201 1 cycle 1 January 2013
IAS 32 Amendment – Presentation – Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities 1 January 2014
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – Classiﬁcation and Measurement 1 January 2015
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s ﬁnancial 
statements in the period of initial application and plan to adopt these standards and interpretations in line with their effective dates.
3 Segmental analysis 
In 201 1, the Group reported the following segments for continuing operations: Performance Materials, Wireless Systems and 
Discontinued businesses. 
During 2012, Discontinued businesses has been reclassiﬁed as Discontinued operations.
Following this change, the reportable segments for continuing operations (as deﬁned by IFRS5) are as follows:
 Performance Materials – designs and supplies a range of EMI shielding materials, thermal management solutions and signal integrity 
products to a wide variety of electronic devices; and
 Wireless Systems – designs and supplies a range of high speciﬁcation wireless antennae, and machine to machine (‘M2M’) wireless modules 
for a number of markets including infrastructure and automotive markets.
Discontinued operations comprise the Handset Antennae business.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
80 3 Segmental analysis continued
Performance Materials Wireless Systems Total
201 2  
£m
201 1  
£m
2012  
£m
201 1  
£m
201 2  
£m
201 1  
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue from customers 324.7 305.0 195.5 186.3 520.2 491.3
Segment proﬁt before: 48.9 43.0 25.8 22.7 74.7 65.7
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (4.5) (4. 1 ) (9.4) (10.0) (13.9) (1 4. 1 )
44.4 38.9 16.4 12.7 60.8 51.6
Unallocated costs (6.6) (7 .3)
Unallocated exceptional items (2.1) (8. 1 )
Operating proﬁt 52.1 36.2
Finance revenue 1.5 0.4
Finance costs (8.4) (7 .5)
Financial instruments – fair value adjustments 0.4 (0.2)
Other net ﬁnance (cost) / revenue – pension (0.5) 0.4
Proﬁt before tax 45.1 29.3
Taxation (11.5) (1 7 . 1 )
Proﬁt from continuing operations 33.6 12.2
Discontinued operations
Revenue from customers 21.4 94.7
Segment proﬁt before: 1.5 1.0
Exceptional items 0.4 (132.0)
Operating proﬁt / (loss) 1.9 (1 31.0)
Taxation – (0.2)
Proﬁt / (loss) from discontinued operations 1.9 (1 31.2)
Proﬁt before tax on disposal of businesses  
on current year disposals:
Before transfer from translation reserve 2.1 –
Transfer from translation reserve 7.7 –
Proﬁt before tax on prior year disposals* 2.6 –
Taxation (1.4) –
Proﬁt / (loss) from discontinued operations 12.9 (1 31.2)
Proﬁt / (loss) for the year 46.5 (1 1 9.0)
The Group did not have any inter-segment revenue in 2012 and 201 1. 
Revenue from one customer of the Performance Materials division and Wireless Systems division represents approximately £91.0m 
(201 1, £65.0m) of the Group’s total revenues.
Unallocated costs are central costs related to managing the parent company.
* These relate to other business segments disposed of in years before 2012
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
81 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
3 Segmental analysis continued
Performance 
Materials Wireless Systems
Discontinued 
Operations Total
2012 
£m
201 1
£m
2012 
£m
201 1
£m
2012 
£m
201 1
£m
2012 
£m
201 1
£m
Segment assets 481.4 478.0 330.3 336.9 – 43.4 811.7 858.3
Unallocated assets – – – – – – 24.5 22.0
Total assets 481.4 478.0 330.3 336.9 – 43.4 836.2 880.3
Segment liabilities 64.4 59.8 29.9 30.9 – 23.4 94.3 11 4. 1
Unallocated liabilities
– borrowings – – – – – – 175.5 194. 1
– other (see below) – – – – – – 125.5 131.7
Total liabilities 64.4 59.8 29.9 30.9 – 23.4 395.3 439.9
Other segment items
Capital additions 12.3 8.3 10.4 8.5 0.3 3.0 23.0 19.8
Acquisition of businesses 18.9 21.4 12.6 – – – 31.5 21.4
Total additions 31.2 29.7 23.0 8.5 0.3 3.0 54.5 41.2
Depreciation 11.6 12.8 2.2 2.1 – 1.7 13.8 16.6
Amortisation / write downs  
of intangible assets 5.8 5.9 13.4 12.7 – 94.1 19.2 11 2.7
Unallocated assets in the above table include cash and cash equivalents, retirement beneﬁts and other debtors.
Unallocated liabilities – other in the above table include liabilities for current tax, deferred tax, retirement beneﬁts, dividends, provisions 
and other creditors.
Geographic information
The Group managed its business segments on a global basis and the parent company is resident in the UK. The Group’s operations are based 
in the following territories:
North America, Europe, Asia and Rest of World.
The revenue analysis in the table below is based on the location of the customer. The analysis of non-current assets is based on the location 
of the assets and for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Revenue Non-current assets
2012 
£m
201 1
£m
2012 
£m
201 1
£m
Continuing operations
North America 185.2 180.7 429.9 445.8
Europe 78.4 84.6 104.0 91.5
Asia 245.0 220.7 50.8 52. 1
Rest of World 11.6 5.3 – –
520.2 491.3 584.7 589.4
Revenue from UK customers (the Company’s country of domicile) was £7 .8m (201 1, £8.7m).
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
82 4 Revenue
Revenue disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows:
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Sale of goods 520.2 491.3
Finance revenue 1.5 0.4
Total revenue 521.7 491.7
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods and services (201 1, £nil).
5 Exchange rates 
The results and cash ﬂows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into Sterling using weighted average rates of exchange for the year. The 
principal rates used were as follows:
Average Closing
2012 
£m
201 1
£m
2012 
£m
201 1
£m
Czech Koruna 31.06 28.32 30.94 30.53
Euros 1.23 1. 1 5 1.23 1.20
Japanese Yen 126.42 128.00 140.55 11 9.57
Renminbi 9.99 10.37 10.13 9.78
Swedish Krona 10.74 10.39 10.58 10.65
US Dollars 1.58 1.60 1.63 1.55
6  Operating proﬁt before ﬁnance costs and tax 
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 520.2 491.3
Cost of sales (311.8) (306.0)
Gross proﬁt 208.4 185.3
Selling, administration and other expenses (122.9) (1 22. 1 )
Research and development expenditure (net) (33.4) (27 .0)
Operating proﬁt before ﬁnance costs and tax 52.1 36.2
Note
(a)  Included in selling, administration and other expenses are £2. 1m (201 1, £8. 1m) of exceptional items as described in note 7 to the ﬁnancial 
statements and £13.9m (201 1, £14. 1m) of amortisation relating to acquired intangible assets.
(b)  Included in research and development expenditure is £5.3m (201 1, £3.9m) of amortisation in respect of capitalised development costs.
(c)  Cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales was £221.6m (201 1, £222.4m).
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
83 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
6  Operating proﬁt before ﬁnance costs and tax continued
2012 
Continuing  
operations 
£m
2012 
Discontinued 
operations 
£m
201 1 
Continuing  
operations 
£m
201 1 
Discontinued  
operations 
£m
Operating proﬁt for the year is stated after charging the following items:
Staff costs 124.4 4. 1 11 2.8 9.4
Exceptional items
Property, plant and equipment write (backs) / downs –(2.1) –21.9
Capitalised development costs write downs –– –7.8
Acquired intangible asset write downs –– –3.9
Goodwill write downs –– –80.5
Inventory write downs –0.9 –1.6
Other restructuring 0.6 0.8 3.8 16.3
Business acquisition transaction costs 1.5 – 0.5 –
Bid defence costs –– 3.8 –
2.1 (0.4) 8.1 132.0
Research and development expenditure
Incurred 36.6 0.8 31.0 9.2
Capitalised (8.5) – (7 .9) (1.2)
Depreciation and amortisation
Property, plant and equipment 13.8 – 14.9 1.7
Capitalised development costs 5.3 – 3.9 2.5
Acquired intangible assets 13.9 – 14. 1 –
Operating lease rentals
Hire of plant and machinery 0.7 – 1.2 –
Other 6.5 0.7 6.2 0.7
Auditor’s remuneration*
Audit fees
–  Audit of ﬁnancial statements 0.4 – 0.4 –
– Audit of subsidiaries 0.7 – 0.6 0.1
Total audit fees 1.1 – 1.0 0. 1
Tax fees
– Compliance services 0.9 – 0.8 –
– Advisory services 0.3 – 0.6 –
Transaction support services –– 0.4 –
Other services –– ––
Total non-audit services 1.2 – 1.8 –
* Total fees paid to the auditor were £2.2m (2011, £2.8m), including £nil (2011, £nil) related to discontinued operations of the Group.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
84 7 Exceptional items
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Continuing operations:
Unallocated costs
Business acquisition transaction costs (1.5) (0.5)
Restructuring costs (0.6) (3.8)
Bid defence costs – (3.8)
(2.1) (8. 1 )
Discontinued operations:
Property, plant and equipment write backs / (downs) 2.1 (21.9)
Capitalised development costs write downs – (7 .8)
Acquired intangible asset write downs – (3.9)
Goodwill write downs – (80.5)
Inventory write downs (0.9) (1.6)
Other restructuring costs (0.8) (1 6.3)
0.4 (132.0)
(1.7) (1 40. 1 )
Note
(a)  Discontinued operations comprise the Handset Antennae business. The write downs attributable to the Handset Antennae business have 
been reassessed and this resulted in a net writeback in property, plant and equipment.
(b)  The total cash outlay for exceptional costs in 2012 was £13.3m (201 1, £22.6m).
(c)  The tax effect on exceptional items in 2012 is a £nil tax charge (201 1, £2.0m tax charge).
(d)  Restructuring costs include redundancy costs of £0. 1m (201 1, £10.2m) and site rationalisation and closure costs of £1.3m (201 1, £9.9m).
8 Directors’ remuneration
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Remuneration
Fees 0.2 0.2 
Salaries and beneﬁts 1.0 1.5
Pension contributions 0.2 0.5
Performance incentive awards
Bonuses 0.4 1.0
Share based payments 0.3 0.7
2.1 3.9
There were no exercises of share options by directors during 2012.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
85 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
9 Employees
2012 
Number
201 1 
Number
Average number of Group employees from continuing operations
Performance Materials 6,392 6,235
Wireless Systems 2,038 1,752
8,430 7,98 7
Discontinued businesses 715 2,970
9,145 10,957
The total number of Group employees at 31 December 2012 was 9,078 (201 1, 9,912).
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Employee costs
Wages and salaries 111.6 105.9
Social security costs 13.5 13.6
Other pension costs 1.8 1.4
Share based payments 1.6 1.3
128.5 122.2
Compensation of key management personnel (excluding directors, for details of directors see note 8).
Key management personnel comprise members of the management team as deﬁned by IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ . 
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Short-term employee beneﬁts 2.7 2.3
Post employment beneﬁts 0.2 0.2
Share based payments 0.7 0.3
3.6 2.8
10 Finance revenues and costs
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Finance revenue
Interest income 1.5 0.4
Finance costs
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (2.1) (1. 1 )
Interest payable on other loans (5.0) (5.2)
Other ﬁnance charges (1.3) (1.2)
(8.4) (7 .5)
Financial instruments – fair value adjustments 0.4 (0.2)
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
86 11 Taxation 
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
(a) Analysis of the tax charge / (credit) for the year
Current tax
Current income tax charge 11.6 14.2
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years (0.3) (2.3)
Total current tax charge 11.3 11.9
Deferred tax
 Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 3.1 2.4
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years (1.5) 3.0
Total tax charge in the income statement 12.9 17 .3
The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows:
Tax charge on continuing operations 11.5 17 . 1
Tax charge on discontinued operations 1.4 0.2
12.9 17 .3
(b) Tax included in other comprehensive income or equity
The tax charge / (credit) is made up as follows:
Deferred tax – –
Share based payments – –
– –
(c) Reconciliation of the total tax charge / (credit) for the year
Proﬁt from continuing operations 45.1 29.3
Proﬁt / (loss) from discontinued operations 14.3 (1 31.0)
Proﬁt / (loss) before tax 59.4 (101.7)
Loss before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 2 4.5 % (201 1 , 26.5 % ) 14.6 (26.9)
Effects of:
Items (not taxable) / not deductible for tax purposes (6.1) 37 .8
Beneﬁt of special tax status (2.2) (2.5)
Adjustment to current and deferred tax in respect of prior periods (1.9) 0.6
 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses and attributes 0.1 (0.5)
 Current year tax losses and attributes not recognised 3.2 9.7
Overseas tax rate differences 3.8 (0.9)
Tax on disposal of businesses 1.4 –
 Total tax charge reported in the income statement 12.9 17 .3
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
87 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
12 Discontinued operations
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Results from discontinued operations:
Revenue from customers 21.4 94.7
Operating proﬁt before: 1.5 1.0
Exceptional items (see note 7) 0.4 (132.0)
Taxation – (0.2)
Proﬁt / (loss) after tax from discontinued operations 1.9 (1 31.2)
Proﬁt on disposal of businesses:
Proﬁt before transfer from translation reserve 2.1 –
Transfer from translation reserve 7.7 –
Proﬁt on current year disposals 9.8 –
Proﬁt on prior year disposals 2.6 –
Taxation (1.4) –
Proﬁt after tax on disposals 11.0 –
Proﬁt / (loss) from discontinued operations 12.9 (1 31.2)
Discontinued operations comprise the Handset Antennae business. An agreement was completed on 2 November 2012 with Shenzhen 
Sunway Communication Co., Ltd (‘Sunway’) to dispose of the entire issued share capital of Laird Technologies (Beijing) Co., Ltd for a cash 
consideration of £1 7 .5m. Laird Technologies (Beijing) Co., Ltd was the owner of assets which are associated with the Handset Antennae 
business. Total assets disposed of £13.8m included £12.0m of property, plant and equipment. The proﬁt on prior year disposals represents a 
reassessment of provisions for warranty claims.
13 Earnings per share
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the proﬁt / (loss) for the year divided by the daily average of the number 
of shares in issue during the year. Diluted earnings per share is based on the same proﬁt / (loss) but with the number of shares increased to 
reﬂect the daily average effect of relevant share options granted but not yet exercised where performance conditions have been met and 
shares contingently issuable.
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Proﬁt / (loss) 
Proﬁt after tax from continuing operations 33.6 12.2
Proﬁt / (loss) from discontinued operations 12.9 (1 31.2)
Proﬁt / (loss) for the year 46.5 (1 1 9.0)
Number 
of shares 
(m)
Number 
of shares 
(m)
Weighted average shares
Basic weighted average shares 265.6 265.4
Options 2.9 2.3
Diluted weighted average shares 268.5 267 .7
Earnings per share Pence Pence
Basic from continuing operations 12.7 4.6
Diluted from continuing operations 12.5 4.6
Basic from discontinued operations 4.9 (49.4)
Diluted from discontinued operations 4.8 (49.4)
Basic on proﬁt / (loss) for the year 17 .5 (44.8)
Diluted on proﬁt / (loss) for the year 17 .3 (44.8)
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
88 14 Underlying results
Underlying proﬁt and earnings per share are shown as the Board considers them to be relevant guides to the performance of the Group. The 
tax charge for the year is equivalent to 16.5 % (201 1, 1 7 . 1 % ) of underlying proﬁt before tax.
Underlying tax is stated before exceptional items, deferred tax on the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and US capitalised 
development costs, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of ﬁnancial instruments and acquisition 
costs. The deferred tax impact of short-term losses and current tax on the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill are 
included in the calculation of underlying tax.
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Proﬁt
Continuing proﬁt before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items 68.1 58.4
Finance revenue 1.5 0.4
Finance costs (8.4) (7 .5)
Other ﬁnance (expense) / revenue – pension (0.5) 0.4
Continuing underlying proﬁt before tax 60.7 51.7
Tax
The underlying tax charge is calculated as follows: 
Underlying tax on continuing operations 10.0 8.8
 Continuing underlying tax rate 16.5% 17 . 1 %
Tax charge on discontinued operations 1.4 0.2
Tax charge on exceptional items 0.2 2.0
Deferred tax on goodwill and acquired intangible assets 1.3 6.3
Total tax charge 12.9 17 .3
Analysis of tax charge:
Tax on proﬁt from continuing operations 11.5 17 . 1
Tax on discontinued operations 1.4 0.2
12.9 17 .3
Earnings per share Pence Pence
Continuing underlying earnings per share – basic 19. 1 16.2
Continuing underlying earnings per share – diluted 18.9 16.0
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
89 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
15 Dividends paid and proposed
On 28 February 2013 the Board declared, subject to approval from shareholders, a ﬁnal dividend of 6.6 pence per share (201 1, 5.3 pence). 
The ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 7 June 2013 to shareholders registered on 10 May 2013. Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings 
on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a legal liability of the Company.
Total Dividends Dividends paid
Dividends declared/
proposed*
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Final 2010 – 11.2 – –
Interim 201 1 – 7.2 – 7.2
Final 201 1 14. 1 – – 14. 1
Interim 2012 9.1 – 9.1 –
Final 2012 – – 17 .6 –
23.2 18.4 26.7 21.3
Dividends per share Dividends paid
Dividends declared/ 
proposed*
2012 
Pence
201 1 
Pence
2012 
Pence
201 1 
Pence
Final 2010 – 4.2 – –
Interim 201 1 – 2.7 – 2.7
Final 201 1 5.3 – – 5.3
Interim 2012 3.4 – 3.4 –
Final 2012 – – 6.6 –
8.7 6.9 10.0 8.0
* attributable to the year
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
90 16 Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost 
At 1 January 201 1 31.3 184.2 21 5.5
Additions 0.6 10.1 10.7
New businesses –0.2 0.2
Disposals (0.3) (2.5) (2.8)
Foreign currency adjustment (0.4) 4.0 3.6
At 31 December 201 1 31.2 196.0 227 .2
Additions 2.3 12.2 14.5
New businesses –1.9 1.9
Disposals (8.8) (39.5) (48.3)
Foreign currency adjustment (1.3) (6.8) (8. 1 )
At 31 December 2012 23.4 163.8 187 .2
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 201 1 1 1.5 93.8 105.3
Charge for year 1.3 15.3 16.6
Exceptional write downs in the year 2.2 19.7 21.9
Disposals (0. 1) (2.3) (2.4)
Foreign currency adjustment (0. 1) 2.3 2.2
At 31 December 201 1 14.8 1 28.8 1 43.6
Charge for year 1.4 1 2.4 1 3.8
Exceptional write downs / (backs) in the year 1.1 (3.2) (2.1)
Disposals (2.6) (31.4) (34.0)
Foreign currency adjustment (0.8) (4.5) (5.3)
At 31 December 2012 13.9 102.1 1 16.0
Net book value at 31 December 2012 9.5 61.7 71.2
Net book value at 31 December 201 1 16.4 67 .2 83.6
Net book value at 1 January 201 1 19.8 90.4 1 10.2
The exceptional write downs / (backs) principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and have been included as part of the exceptional 
items disclosed in note 7 .
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
91 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
17 Intangible assets
Capitalised 
development 
costs 
£m
Goodwill 
£m
Customer 
relationships 
£m
Other acquired 
intangible 
assets 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 201 1 34.9 520.2 105.2 62.9 723.2
Additions 9.1––– 9.1
Adjustments to prior year acquisition of businesses – 1.7 (0.2) (0.8) 0.7
Acquisition of businesses in the year – 1 1.6 8.6 1.0 21.2
Disposals (0.6) ––– (0.6)
Foreign currency adjustment 0.2 1.7 – 0.3 2.2
At 31 December 201 1 43.6 535.2 1 1 3.6 63.4 755.8
Additions 8.5––– 8.5
Adjustments to prior year acquisition of businesses – 1.0 (1.2) (0.1) (0.3)
Acquisition of businesses in the year – 19.6 8.8 1.2 29.6
Disposals ––– (0.2) (0.2)
Foreign currency adjustment (1.4) (20.2) (4.3) (2.2) (28.1)
At 31 December 201 2 50.7 535.6 1 16.9 62. 1 765.3
Amortisation
At 1 January 201 1 15.7 38.9 41.4 30.1 126.1
Charge for the year 6.4 – 9.5 4.6 20.5
Exceptional write downs in the year 7 .8 80.5 2.4 1.5 92.2
Disposals (0.6) ––– (0.6)
Foreign currency adjustment – 1.7 0.3 0.3 2.3
At 31 December 201 1 29.3 1 21. 1 53.6 36.5 240.5
Charge for the year 5.3 – 9.8 4.1 19.2
Disposals ––– (0.1) (0.1)
Foreign currency adjustment (0.7) (3.8) (2.1) (1.2) (7 .8)
At 31 December 201 2 33.9 1 1 7 .3 61.3 39.3 251.8
Net book value at 31 December 2012 16.8 418.3 55.6 22.8 513.5
Net book value at 31 December 201 1 14.3 414.1 60.0 26.9 515.3
Net book value at 1 January 201 1 19.2 481.3 63.8 32.8 597 .1
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
92 17 Intangible assets continued
Capitalised development costs
Internally generated assets arising from the capitalisation of qualifying development expenditure in 2012 typically have a ﬁnite expected 
useful life of less than four years. Capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a straight line basis. All amortisation charges for the 
year have been charged against operating proﬁts. The total amount of research and development activity incurred during 2012 is £37 .4m 
(201 1, £40.2m) of which £8.5m (201 1, £9. 1m) was capitalised. 
Goodwill
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for assessment of impairment in accordance with IAS 36. No impairment to goodwill was 
identiﬁed.
Goodwill was tested for impairment for the following cash generating units (CGUs):
 Performance Materials division
 Wireless Systems division 
Performance Materials had a goodwill balance of £227 .6m at the year end (201 1, £223.9m). Wireless Systems had a goodwill balance of 
£190.7m at the year end (201 1, £190.2m). The remaining goodwill in the Handset Antennae business was written off in 201 1. All of the 
recoverable amounts are based on value in use.
The key assumptions were:
 A pre-tax discount rate of 1 1.6 % (201 1, 10.0% ). During the year some of the inputs used to calculate the discount rate were revised which 
drove the increase compared to 201 1.
 Revenue growth rates for each CGU were based on relevant external market estimates and management knowledge. 
The discount rate has been applied to cash ﬂow forecasts for 2013 to perpetuity. 
The forecast cash ﬂows for 2013 are based on what has been approved internally by the Board for the 2013 budget. Revenue estimates which 
underpin the forecasts for 2014–201 7 , have been based on external market estimates for PCs, tablets, smartphones, telematics and telecoms 
but after reﬂecting Management’s views of average selling prices, product penetration trends and their impact on the size of the addressable 
market. Cash ﬂows for 201 7 onwards for both divisions have been increased by 3 % per annum (201 1, 3 % per annum).
Downside sensitivities have been applied to the cash ﬂow estimates to assess the impact upon the headroom over the carrying value of the 
assets and provide further comfort that no impairment is required. Performance Materials has the greatest amount of headroom and Wireless 
Systems the least. Revenues would have to be some 20% less than forecast for each period before some form of impairment would have to 
be considered.
Other acquired intangible assets
Assets in this class are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating proﬁts. 
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets:
Brand names – 5 years 
Trade secrets – 8 to 15 years 
Trade marks and names – 5 to 15 years 
Patents – the remaining duration of the 1 7 year legal right 
Licence – the remaining duration of the 20 year legal right 
Customer relationships – 10 to 20 years
The expected life assigned to acquired customer relationships is an estimate and is not secured by any legal obligation on the customer 
to continue business with the Group for any ﬁnite period. Other than goodwill, the Group does not hold any intangible assets with an 
indeﬁnite life.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
93 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
18 Business combinations
Acquisition of businesses in 2012
On 1 March 2012, Summit Data Communications Inc, a designer and supplier of wireless modules which provide secure and reliable wireless 
connectivity in industrial and medical markets, was acquired for a total consideration of £14.0m. On acquisition there was maximum potential 
contingent consideration of £5. 1m. As at the acquisition date, the fair value of the contingent consideration has been estimated at £nil. This 
purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition and all intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The fair values are 
provisional. The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the ﬁnancial statements.
Book and fair values of the net assets of the business acquired, stated at rates of exchange at the date of acquisition, were as follows:
Book values 
£m
Provisional 
fair values  
to the Group 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2
Intangible assets – 4.2
Inventories 1.7 1.7
Trade and other receivables 1.4 1.4
Trade and other payables (0.3) (0.3)
Income tax payable – (0.1)
Deferred tax liabilities – (1.6)
Net assets acquired 3.0 5.5
Goodwill arising on acquisition 8.5
Consideration 14.0
Consideration satisﬁed by:
Cash consideration (14.0)
The Group has acquired a 100% interest in the acquisition noted above. Underlying proﬁt before tax for the entity acquired in the period 
was £1.2m following acquisition. If the acquisition hadbeen held for the full year, 2012 revenues would have been £1.7m higher, at £521.9m 
and the proﬁt before tax would have been unchanged at £45. 1m. Proﬁt before tax for the entity acquired following acquisition on an IFRS 
basis was £0.9m. Included in the £8.5m of goodwill recognised above are certain assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably 
measured due to their nature. These items include the expected value of synergies. 
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
94 18 Business combinations continued
Acquisition of businesses in 2012
On 9 May 201 2, Microwave Materials Group NV , the holding company of Emerson & Cuming Microwave Products, a designer and supplier 
of microwave absorber products, was acquired for a total consideration of £1 6.9m. This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition and all 
intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The fair values are provisional. The residual excess over the net assets acquired is 
recognised as goodwill in the ﬁnancial statements.
Book and fair values of the net assets of the business acquired, stated at rates of exchange at the date of acquisition, were as follows:
Book values 
£m
Provisional 
fair values  
to the Group 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 2.0 1.6
Intangible assets 1.0 6.0
Deferred tax assets – 0.7
Inventories 1.9 1.4
Trade and other receivables 2.6 2.6
Income tax recoverable 0.1 0.1
Trade and other payables (1.4) (1.4)
Income tax payable (0.2) (1.2)
Deferred tax liabilities (0. 1) (2.0)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations (0.3) (1.0)
Provisions (0.4) (0.9)
Net assets acquired 5.2 5.9
Goodwill arising on acquisition 11.0
Consideration 16.9
Consideration satisﬁed by:
Cash consideration (17 .6)
Net cash acquired 0.7
(16.9)
The Group has acquired a 100% interest in the acquisition noted above. Underlying proﬁt before tax for the entity acquired in the period 
was £1.2m following acquisition. If the acquisition had been held for the full year, 2012 revenues would have been £4.9m higher, at £525. 1m 
and the proﬁt before tax would have been £0.2m higher at £45.3m. Proﬁt before tax for the entity acquired following acquisition on an IFRS 
basis was £0.8m. Included in the £1 1.0m of goodwill recognised above are certain assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably 
measured due to their nature. These items include the expected value of synergies.
Details of the Group’s signiﬁcant subsidiaries are disclosed in the list of ‘Principal subsidiaries’ on page 129. 
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
95 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
18 Business combinations continued
Acquisition of businesses in 2011
On 31 March 201 1, Klüver Aggregatebau GmbH, which designs and supplies active cooling systems for medical equipment such as XRay and 
CT machines, was acquired for a total consideration of £21.0m. This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition and all intangible 
assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the ﬁnancial 
statements.
Book and fair values of the net assets of the business acquired, stated at rates of exchange at the date of acquisition, were as follows:
Book values
£m
Fair values  
to the Group 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2
Intangible assets –8.2
Inventories 1.7 1.7
Trade and other receivables 1.9 1.9
Trade and other payables (1.6) (1.6)
Deferred tax liabilities – (2.0)
Provisions (0.3) (0.3)
Net assets acquired 1.9 8. 1
Goodwill arising on acquisition 12.9
Consideration 21.0
Consideration satisﬁed by:
Cash consideration (20.6)
Net cash acquired 1.3
(1 9.3)
Borrowings acquired (1.7)
(21.0)
The Group has acquired a 100% interest in the acquisition noted above. Underlying proﬁts before tax for the entity acquired were £2.3m 
following acquisition. If the acquisition had been held for the full year, 201 1 revenues would have been £3.2m higher, at £589.2m and the 
loss before tax would have been £0.7m lower at £101.0m. Proﬁt before tax for the entity acquired following acquisition on an IFRS basis was 
£1.6m. Included in the £12.9m of goodwill recognised above are certain assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured 
due to their nature. These items include the expected value of synergies. Fair values to the Group were ﬁnalised during 2012, resulting in an 
increase in goodwill of £1. 1m, a decrease in intangible assets of £1.5m and a decrease in deferred tax liabilities of £0.4m compared to those 
items recorded at 31 December 201 1.
19 Inventories
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Raw materials and consumables 17 .7 22.5
Work in progress 1.1 1.4
Finished goods 31.8 33.4
50.6 57 .3
Expenses relating to inventories written down during the period totalled £0.9m (201 1, £1.6m).
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
96 20 Trade and other receivables
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Trade receivables 98.5 122.5
Other receivables 14.4 9.4
Prepayments and accrued income 3.9 3.7
116.8 135.6
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Sterling 0.4 0.2
Euros 7.3 7.0
US Dollars 74.8 81.0
Renminbi 12.4 30.7
Others 3.6 3.6
98.5 122.5
Out of the carrying amount of trade receivables of £98.5m (201 1, £122.5m), £38.5m (201 1, £46.6m) relates to ten major customers. 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30–90 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for impairment. 
As at 31 December 2012, trade receivables at nominal value of £1.9m (201 1, £2.0m) were impaired and fully provided for. 
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows:
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
At 1 January 2.0 2.5
Charge for the year 0.4 0.6
Amounts written off (0.2) (1.0)
Acquired / (disposed of) 0.2 0.1
Foreign currency adjustment (0.5) (0.2)
At 31 December 1.9 2.0
The provision has been based on regular reviews of the collectability of individual customers’ trade receivable balances.
As at 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Total 
£m
Neither past 
due nor 
impaired 
£m
Less than  
30 days 
£m
30–60 days 
£m
60–90 days 
£m
More than  
90 days 
£m
31 December 2012 98.5 82.5 12.9 1.7 1.1 0.3
31 December 201 1 122.5 101.7 15.5 3.9 0.6 0.8
The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical information 
relating to counterparty default rates is used.
21 Cash and cash equivalents
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 68.7 70.6
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets in the Group statement of ﬁnancial position) comprise cash at bank 
and cash deposits with a maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash ﬂow statement, ‘Cash and cash equivalents’ comprises the following at 31 December:
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 68.7 70.6
Bank overdrafts ––
68.7 70.6
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
97 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
22 Borrowings
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Current:
Short term borrowings 0.3 0.2
US Private Placement loans due 2012 – 2.1
Acquisition related loan notes – 1.7
0.3 4.0
Non-current:
US Private Placement loans due 2014 59.5 62.3
US Private Placement loans due 2016 26.4 27 .6
Bilateral revolving bank loans 89.3 100.2
175.2 190. 1
Total borrowings 175.5 194. 1
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
Within one year
Bank 0.3 0.2
Other – 3.8
Between 1 and 2 years
Bank – –
Other 59.5 –
Between 2 and 5 years
Bank 89.3 100.2
Other 26.4 89.9
Total borrowings 175.5 194. 1
The impact of foreign currency movements on Group borrowings is disclosed in the analysis of movements in net borrowings contained within 
note 32.
Notes
(a)  There are no borrowings secured on the assets of subsidiary undertakings (201 1, £nil). 
(b)  US Private Placement loans, arising from private placements of debt with US insurance companies, comprise $140m (201 1, $140m) 
repayable between 2014 and 2016 at an average ﬁxed rate of interest of 5.64 %.
(c)  The Group had committed bilateral revolving bank loan facilities of £235m which were underwritten in excess of three years. Drawings by 
Group companies under these facilities were £89.3m (201 1, £100.2m). Although these drawings are repayable within one year they are 
classiﬁed as long term as they can be reﬁnanced under the terms of the facilities. 
(d)  Ancillary costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings are amortised over the term of the facility, using the effective 
interest rate method. 
23  Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
2012 201 1
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Other 
£m
Land and  
buildings  
£m
Other 
£m
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year 7.3 0.7 7.0 0.9
Later than one year and less than ﬁve years 14.2 0. 1 12.5 0.3
After ﬁve years 3.4 – 1.0 –
24.9 0.8 20.5 1.2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
98 24 Trade and other payables
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Trade payables 67 .1 77 .1
Social security costs 1.8 1.4
Other payables 15.8 30.9
Accruals and deferred income 13.7 11. 1
98.4 120.5
25 Deferred taxes
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Deferred tax assets
Losses 1.5 2.0
Other temporary differences 4.7 0.4
6.2 2.4
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated tax depreciation 73.1 70.9
Other temporary differences 3.0 1.9
76.1 72.8
Movements on deferred tax liabilities during the year were:
Accelerated tax 
depreciation 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 201 1 62.6 3. 1 65.7
Charged / (credited) to the income statement 6.0 (1.1) 4.9
Reclassiﬁcation to deferred tax assets (0.6) (0.1) (0.7)
Acquisitions 2.4 – 2.4
Foreign currency adjustment 0.5 – 0.5
At 1 January 2012 70.9 1.9 72.8
Charged to the income statement 0.7 1.0 1.7
Reclassiﬁcation to deferred tax assets –––
Acquisitions 3.5 0.1 3.6
Foreign currency adjustment (2.0) – (2.0)
At 31 December 2012 73.1 3.0 76.1
Deferred tax assets have been established in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences where it is probable that these assets will 
be recovered.
Unrecognised tax losses
Deferred tax assets have not been established on trading losses of £1 7 .5m (201 1, £23.8m) where it is unlikely that future relief would 
be available at the balance sheet date. Of these losses, £4.2m (201 1, £5.0m) have expiry dates between 2013 and 2023 and £13.3m 
(201 1, £18.8m) are available indeﬁnitely. Deferred tax assets have not been established on capital losses of £6.0m (201 1, £6.6m) where it is 
unlikely that future relief would be available at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on other deductible 
temporary differences of £24.5m (201 1, £33.2m) where their use is restricted indeﬁnitely. 
Temporary differences associated with Group investments
Deferred tax of £1.3m (201 1, £1. 1m) has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where it is likely there will be 
income tax consequences attached to the payment of dividends. No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences of 
£21.5m (201 1, £33.2m) relating to the unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of 
these temporary differences and it is probable they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The temporary differences at 31 December 2012 
represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax 
liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate. 
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
99 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
25 Deferred taxes continued
Factors affecting future tax charges
The UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 23 % effective 1 April 2013 and disclosure of deferred tax has been adjusted to reﬂect the 
enactment of the revised rate but with no signiﬁcant impact on these ﬁnancial statements. The December Autumn Statement also 
announced subsequent reductions in the UK corporation tax rate to 21 % by 1 April 2014. These changes had not been substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date and are not included in these ﬁnancial statements. The Company expects the impact of these changes to the 
ﬁnancial statements will be negligible.
26 Other non-current liabilities
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Other creditors 0.6 0.9
Accruals and deferred income 0.4 0.6
1.0 1.5
27 Provisions
Warranty  
claims 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2012
Current 3.9 0.5 4.4
Non-current –5.0 5.0
3.9 5.5 9.4
Provided –0.4 0.4
Acquisition of businesses –0.9 0.9
Utilised (0.1 ) ( 1.0) ( 1.1 )
Released (2.6) – (2.6)
Foreign currency adjustment –(0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2012 1.2 5.6 6.8
Analysed as:
Current 1.2 0.5 1.7
Non-current –5.1 5.1
1.2 5.6 6.8
Warranty claims are in respect of potential liabilities arising from the disposal of businesses.
Other provisions consist primarily of amounts provided in respect of events arising from trade and various other provisions that do not ﬁt into 
distinct categories. The timing of cash outﬂows for warranty claims and other provisions are by their nature uncertain and dependent upon 
the outcome of related events. The best estimates are shown in the table above. 
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
100 28 Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s ﬁnancial instrument risk and capital management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the Finance 
Director’s report and in the notes to the ﬁnancial statements (note 2). 
Financial assets
The ﬁnancial assets of the Group comprised:
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Current
Cash and cash equivalents (note 21) 68.7 70.6
Current ﬁnancial assets (see below) – 5.8
Trade and other receivables (note 20) 106.2 128.3
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 0.6 0.2
175.5 204.9
Non-current
Other non-current receivables 0.9 1.4
0.9 1.4
Current ﬁnancial assets are cash deposits which have a deposit term of greater than three months and so cannot be classiﬁed as cash or cash 
equivalents. The deposits included as current ﬁnancial assets have a maturity of less than 6 months from the balance sheet date.
Financial liabilities
The ﬁnancial liabilities of the Group comprised:
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Current
Borrowings (note 22) 0.3 4.0
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – –
Trade and other payables (note 24) 96.0 11 8.0
96.3 122.0
Non-current
Borrowings (note 22) 175.2 190. 1
Other non-current liabilities (note 26) 1.0 1.5
176.2 191.6
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
101 Financial accounts
28 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk:
Year ended 31 December 2012
Within 1  
year
1 – 2  
Years
2 – 3  
Years
3 – 4  
Years
4 – 5  
Years
More than  
5 Years Total
Fixed rate
$97m US Private Placement loans at 5.59% due 2014 – 59.5 – – – – 59.5
$43m US Private Placement loans at 5.76 % due 2016 – – – 26.4 – – 26.4
Sub Total – 59.5 – 26.4 – – 85.9
Floating rate
Cash and cash equivalents (68.7) – – – – – (68.7)
Current ﬁnancial assets –––––––
Bank loans – – – – 89.3 – 89.3
Loan notes – ––––––
Short-term bank loans 0.3 – – – – – 0.3
Sub Total (68.4) – – – 89.3 – 20.9
Interest on ﬁnancial instruments classiﬁed as ﬂoating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. 
Interest on the ﬁnancial instruments classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate is ﬁxed until maturity of the instrument.
Year ended 31 December 201 1
Within 1  
year
1 – 2  
Years
2 – 3  
Years
3 – 4  
Years
4 – 5  
Years
More than  
5 Years Total
Fixed rate
$6.7m US Private Placement loans at 7 .44 % due 
201 1/2012
2.1––––– 2.1
$97m US Private Placement loans at 5.59% due 2014 – – 62.3 – – – 62.3
$43m US Private Placement loans at 5.76 % due 2016 – – – – 27 .6 – 27 .6
Sub Total 2.1 – 62.3 – 27 .6 – 92.0
Floating rate
Cash and cash equivalents (70.6) – – – – – (70.6)
Current ﬁnancial assets (5.8) – – – – – (5.8)
Loan notes 1.7 ––––– 1.7
Bank loans – – – – 100.2 – 100.2
Sub Total (74.7) – – – 100.2 – 25.5
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
The Group holds forward foreign exchange contracts to manage foreign exchange exposures. The forward contracts have a principal value of 
£70.0m (201 1, £44.0m) and are mainly denominated in US dollar and Chinese Renminbi. These contracts have not been designated as cash 
ﬂow hedges and the increase in fair value during 2012 of £0.4m (201 1, £0.2m decrease) has been taken to the income statement.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
102 28 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate and currency proﬁle
The Group’s policy is to maintain an appropriate balance between variable and ﬁxed interest rate borrowings. Interest rate swaps and similar 
instruments are used to manage interest costs. At 31 December 2012 approximately 49% of debt is at ﬁxed rate. This position is reviewed on 
a regular basis to ensure it is still appropriate.
Interest rate risk
The following table shows the sensitivity to a change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s proﬁt before tax 
(through the impact on ﬂoating rate borrowings). There is no impact on the Group’s equity. The interest rates considered are sterling and 
US dollar, being the currencies in which the Group have historically issued debt and held investments.
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes those recognised at 
fair value as well as all non-derivative ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial instruments. 
Effect on proﬁt 
before tax 
£m
2012
50 basis points increase in US dollar interest rates 0.3
50 basis points increase in sterling interest rates –
A 50 basis point decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect. 
Effect on proﬁt 
before tax 
£m
2011
50 basis points increase in US dollar interest rates 0.4
50 basis points increase in sterling interest rates –
A 50 basis point decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect.
Credit risk
The Group’s customer base is largely focused in the global electronics market where it has leading positions in its principal products with 
customers who themselves have signiﬁcant market shares. Inevitably this results in levels of business and trade receivables that are material in 
the overall Group context. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying amount of the ﬁnancial assets.
Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to transactional currency exposures on sales and purchases denominated in currencies other than the functional 
currency of the subsidiary. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US dollar, Euro and Renminbi. The Group policy is to match out the 
sales and purchases in these currencies wherever possible and then hedge out the residual exposures.
The following table shows the sensitivity to a possible change in US dollar, Euro and Renminbi exchange rates against sterling with all other 
variables held constant, of the Group’s proﬁt before tax (due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets, liabilities and forward currency 
contracts) and the Group’s equity (due to changes in the fair value of forward currency hedges and net investment hedges). 
Effect on proﬁt 
before tax 
£m
Effect on  
equity 
£m
2012
10% appreciation of the US dollar 7.2 ( 1 3.9 )
10% appreciation of the Euro 0.6 (2.7)
10% appreciation of the Renminbi (1. 1 ) –
2011
10% appreciation of the US dollar 8.0 (17 .9)
10% appreciation of the Euro 0.6 (0.8)
10% appreciation of the Renminbi 0.6 –
A 10% depreciation of the stated currencies would have an equal and opposite effect.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
103 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
28 Financial instruments continued
Net investment hedging
Included in borrowings are US $228m (£140.2m) and €33m (£26.8m) of debt which have been designated as a hedge of the net investments 
in the United States and Europe subsidiaries. This is being used to hedge the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments. 
Gains or losses on the retranslation of the borrowings are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net 
investments in the subsidiaries.
Liquidity risk
The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December 2012 and 201 1 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments.
Year ended 31 December 2012
On  
demand 
£m
Within  
1 year 
£m
1 to 5  
Years 
£m
More than  
5 Years 
£m
Total 
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 4.9 184.5 – 189.4
Trade and other payables – 96.0 1.0 – 97 .0
Forward foreign exchange contracts –––––
–100.9 185.5 – 286.4
Year ended 31 December 201 1
On  
demand 
£m
Within  
1 year 
£m
1 to 5  
Years 
£m
More than  
5 Years 
£m
Total 
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 7 .4 205.5 – 212.9
Trade and other payables – 1 18.0 1.5 – 1 19.5
Forward foreign exchange contracts –––––
–125.4 207.0 – 332.4
The Group ensures that there are sufﬁcient levels of committed facilities, cash and cash equivalents in place to meet its ﬁnancial commitments 
as they fall due.
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
The Group’s ﬁnancial policy is to maintain committed borrowing facilities, which provide substantial headroom over and above its day to day 
borrowing requirements. 
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December were as follows:
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Expiring between three and four years 144.6 –
Expiring between four and ﬁve years – 133. 1
144.6 133. 1
Loan covenants
The principal covenants in the Group’s committed loan facilities and loan note agreements that place restrictions on net borrowings are based 
on UK GAAP and are set out below:
Interest cover
The interest cover covenant is for earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax and amortisation (‘EBITA ’) to be not less than 3.0 times 
interest payable.
Net borrowings: EBITDA ratio
Net borrowings must not exceed 3.5 times earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA ’).
The Group was in compliance with the covenants detailed above at 31 December 2012.
Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments
The US Private Placement loans with a book value of £86. 1m (201 1, £92.0m) have an estimated fair value of £93.4m (201 1, £100.6m) which 
has been calculated by discounting cash ﬂows at prevailing coupon rates as at 31 December 2012.
There are no material differences between fair value and book value on any of the other ﬁnancial instruments.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
104 29 Issued share capital
2012 201 1
Issued and fully paid Shares £m Shares £m
Ordinary shares of 28.125p each 
 
At 1 January 266,302,206 74.9 266,302,206 74.9
Issued for exercise  
of share options
1,108,714 0.3 ––
At 31 December 267,410,920 75.2 266,302,206 74.9
267 ,410,920 ordinary shares of 28. 125p each were in issue at the year end (201 1, 266,302,206 shares of 28. 125p each). 
At 31 December 2012, options to subscribe for 1,905,891 ordinary shares at prices between 125p and 397p were outstanding under the 
Company’s executive share option schemes (201 1, 3,623,443 ordinary shares at prices between 125p and 397p). Options outstanding under 
the schemes are held by 9 individuals and are exercisable at various times up to 13 August 2022. No further options have been granted since 
the year end.
30 Share based payments
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 55 to 66, sets out the general terms and conditions for the Long T erm Incentive Plan (LTIP), the 
1994 Share Option Scheme and the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan and the vesting requirements for the 201 2 LTIP and share option grants. 
Performance Conditions for awards made in 2010 under the LTIP and Option Plan 
The vesting requirements for the share options granted in 2010 are:
Level of vesting in 2013 Applicable Performance Target:  
2012 Earnings per share (EPS)
Threshold 30% vesting 
Full vesting
16.6 pence 
21.3 pence
The extent to which awards granted under the LTIP in 2010 vest will be determined by reference to the Company’s total shareholder return 
relative to FTSE 250 companies (excluding investment trusts) and the following targets will apply:
Total Shareholder Return  
Performance Level
Amount of Award Vesting 
%
Upper Quartile
Median to Upper Quartile
Below Median
Full vesting
Pro-rata between 30% and full vesting
Nil
Performance conditions for awards made in 2011 under the LTIP and Option Plan 
Two measures were used to determine the extent to which awards made in 201 1 would vest: achievement of a TSR target and an underlying 
EPS target. For LTIP awards made in 201 1, 75 % is based on achievement of the TSR target and 25 % is based on achievement of the EPS 
target. For awards under the Option Plan, 75 % is based on EPS and 25 % on TSR. The EPS and TSR conditions are as follows:
TSR condition
For 201 1 and 2012, the list of 20 companies as outlined on page 61 in the Directors’ remuneration report were selected as the comparator 
group to be used for these purposes:
The level of vesting of the applicable portion of the award (75 % of the award under the LTIP; 25 % of the award under the Option Plan) is 
dependent on Laird’s relative TSR performance over three years against this group of companies, as follows:
Total Shareholder Return  
Performance Level
Amount of Award Vesting for TSR Measure  
%
Upper Quartile
Median to Upper Quartile
Below Median
Full vesting
Pro-rata between 30% and full vesting
Nil
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
105 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
30 Share based payments continued
EPS condition
The level of vesting of the applicable portion of the award (75 % of the award under the Option Plan; 25 % of the award under the LTIP) is 
dependent on Laird’s EPS performance for the 2013 ﬁnancial year, as follows:
Level of vesting in 2014 for EPS Measure
Applicable Performance Target:  
2013 Earnings per share (EPS)
Threshold 30% vesting
Full vesting
18.3 pence
22.4 pence
There is pro-rata vesting on a straight-line basis where EPS is between 18.3 pence and 22.4 pence.
Shares awarded under the Medium Term Incentive Plan (MTIP), vest three years after they have been awarded to the employee at nil cost, 
provided the employee is still employed by the Group. There are vesting conditions attached to the MTIP awards which specify proﬁt and EPS 
targets for the years to December 2012 and 2013. 
Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) vest three years after they have been awarded to the employee at nil cost, provided the 
employee is still employed by the Group. 
All share based payments are equity settled. An expense of £1.6m was recognised in the year (201 1, £1.3m) before employer’s national 
insurance and was based on the fair value of the LTIP shares awarded, the RSP shares awarded and the share options granted.
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, end of the year and those granted during the year.
2012 
Number
201 1 
Number
Outstanding as at 1 January 1,579,765 1,603,235
Granted during the year 428,690 1,021,51 3
Lapsed during the year (329,656) (922,71 7)
Vested and exercised during the year (545,348) (1 22,266)
Outstanding as at 31 December 1,133,451 1,579,765
The following table shows the number of MTIP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
2012 
Number
201 1 
Number
Outstanding as at 1 January – –
Granted during the year 1,239,381 –
Lapsed during the year (69,009) –
Vested and exercised during the year – –
Outstanding as at 31 December 1,170,372 –
The following table shows the number of RSP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
2012 
Number
201 1 
Number
Outstanding as at 1 January 1,568,686 1, 168,210
Granted during the year 676,670 901,200
Lapsed during the year (179,400) (328,678)
Vested and exercised during the year – (1 72,046)
Outstanding as at 31 December 2,065,956 1,568,686
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
106 30 Share based payments continued
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options issued under the 1994 
Share Option Scheme.
2012 
Number
2012 
WAEP 
(p)
201 1 
Number
201 1 
WAEP 
(p)
Outstanding as at 1 January
Option prices 1 15–205p 272,467 140 272,467 140
272,467 140
Exercised
Option prices 1 15–205p (272,467) 140 ––
Expired –– ––
–– 272,467 140
Outstanding as at 31 December
Option prices 1 15–205p –– 272,467 140
–– 272,467 140
Exercisable at 31 December –– 272,467 140
As at 1 January, options over 272,467 shares (201 1, 272,467 shares) were accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 and resulted in a charge 
against proﬁts. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise in 2012 was 220p, no options from the above scheme were exercised 
during 201 1. For the share options outstanding at 31 December 201 1, the weighted average remaining contractual life was 0.9 years. 
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options issued under the 
2003 Executive Share Option Plan.
2012 
Number
2012 
WAEP 
(p)
201 1 
Number
201 1 
WAEP 
(p)
Outstanding as at 1 January
Option prices 1 15–205p 2,110,564 145 1,769,995 1 42
Option prices 206–280p 889,392 263 889,392 263
Option prices 281–397p 351,020 397 351,020 397
Option prices 398–510p –– 314,478 434
3,350,976 203 3,324,885 229
Issued 371,707 217 771,634 150
Exercised
Option prices 1 15–205p (836,247) 148 ––
Option prices 206–280p –– ––
Option prices 281–397p –– ––
Option prices 398–510p –– ––
Lapsed (980,545) 190 (745,543) 265
1,905,891 236 3,350,976 203
Outstanding as at 31 December
Option prices 1 15–205p 580,882 141 2,1 10,564 145
Option prices 206–280p 1,047 ,767 246 889,392 263
Option prices 281–397p 277,242 397 351,020 397
Option prices 398–510p –– ––
1,905,891 236 3,350,976 203
Exercisable at 31 December 1,024,553 292 1,5 1 3,379 277
All options in the table above were recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as noted above. The weighted average share price at the date of 
exercise in 2012 was 207p, no options were exercised in 201 1. For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2012, the weighted average 
remaining contractual life is 5. 1 years (201 1, 6.0 years). 
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking into account the 
terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including the market based performance conditions set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report. 
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
107 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
30 Share based payments continued
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, taking into 
account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. The non-market performance conditions set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
The weighted average fair value (in pence) of LTIP , MTIP , RSP and share options granted during the year was as follows:
2012 201 1
LTIP 150 76
MTIP 160 –
RSP 160 133
Share options 69 52
The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 201 1 and 31 December 2012.
LTIP , MTIP  
& RSP  
2012
LTIP , MTIP  
& RSP  
201 1
ESOP  
2012
ESOP  
201 1
Dividend Yield ( % ) 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0
Expected Share Price volatility ( % ) 45 45 45 45
Expected comparator volatility ( % ) 23-69 30 N/A N/A
Risk-free interest rate ( % ) N/A N/A 1.4 3.1
Expected life of LTIP/option (years) 3.0 3.0 7.0 7.0
Weighted average share price (pence) 187 .7 149.8 217 .6 149.8
The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. 
The expected share price volatility is based on historical volatility; average of monthly activity over the last three years. Expected volatility 
reﬂects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily prove to be the actual outcome. 
Dividends are not payable on shares prior to vesting and this is taken into account in calculating the fair value. 
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting.
31 Reserves
Translation reserve
The translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements of foreign subsidiaries. It 
is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments in foreign operations.
Treasury shares
The investment in Laird shares as held by the Laird 1990 Employee Beneﬁt Trust (‘the Trust’), as described below, are treated as treasury shares 
for accounting purposes. 
The Laird 1990 Employee Beneﬁt Trust (‘the Trust’)
The Trust purchases and holds shares in Laird PLC for the beneﬁt of current and former employees. These shares may be used to satisfy 
options and awards. The Trust, which is ﬁnanced by a loan of £4.4m from the Company provided during the year, held 2, 197 ,410 ordinary 
shares at 31 December 2012 (201 1, 742,758). Whilst shares are held within the Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are 
exercisable by the trustee, in accordance with its ﬁduciary duties. The shares held by the Trust had a total market value at that date of £4.5m 
(201 1, £1. 1m).
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
108 32 Additional cash ﬂow information
Cash generation from operations
Continuing operations
2012  
£m
201 1 
£m
Proﬁt after taxation 33.6 12.2
Depreciation and other non-cash items
Depreciation 13.8 13.1
(Gain) / loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.3) 0.4
Amortisation of capitalised development costs 5.3 4.4
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 13.9 14. 1
Share based payments 1.8 1.3
Financial instruments – fair value adjustments (0.4) 0.2
Pension charges 0.3 0.4
Other net ﬁnance costs 7.4 6.7
Taxation 11.5 17 . 1
Net pension contributions (0.3) (0.4)
Changes in working capital 
Inventories 3.7 4.8
Trade and other receivables (6.3) (2.5)
Trade, other payables and provisions 6.4 1.7
 3.8 4.0
Cash generated from continuing operations 90.4 73.5
Note 
(a)  Changes in working capital from operations are after creditor decreases of £3.6m (201 1, £2.4m increases) in respect of exceptional costs.
Discontinued operations
2012  
£m
201 1 
£m
Proﬁt / (loss) after taxation 12.9 (1 31.2)
(Proﬁt) / loss on disposals of businesses before taxation (12.4) –
Depreciation and other non-cash items
Depreciation – 3.5
Amortisation of capitalised development costs – 2.0
Exceptional property, plant and equipment write (backs) / downs (2.1) 21.9
Exceptional capitalised development costs write downs – 7.8
Exceptional acquired intangible assets write downs – 3.9
Exceptional goodwill write downs – 80.5
Exceptional inventory write downs 0.9 1.6
Taxation 1.4 0.2
Changes in working capital 
Inventories 3.8 (0.2)
Trade and other receivables 26.2 8.0
Trade, other payables and provisions (27 .7) (10.3)
 2.3 (2.5)
Cash generated from discontinued operations 3.0 (1 2.3)
Cash generated from operations 93.4 61.2
Note 
(a)  Changes in working capital from operations are after creditor decreases of £8.8m (201 1, £1.4m decreases) in respect of exceptional costs.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
109 Financial accounts
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
32 Additional cash ﬂow information continued
Net cash outﬂow on acquisitions and disposals
2012  
£m
201 1 
£m
Acquisition of businesses
Consideration:
Cash consideration (31.6) (20.3)
Net cash acquired 0.7 1.3
(30.9) (1 9.0)
Deferred consideration paid (1.0) –
Net cash outﬂow on acquisition of businesses (31.9) (1 9.0)
Borrowings acquired – (1.7)
Disposal of businesses
Consideration:
Net cash consideration 17 .0 (0.3)
Cash disposed of (0.1) –
Taxation (1.4) –
Net cash inﬂow / (outﬂow) on disposal of businesses 15.5 (0.3)
Analysis of movements in net borrowings
Year to 31 December 2012
At 1 January 
2012 
£m
Cash ﬂow 
£m
Acquisitions 
£m
Non-cash 
changes 
£m
Exchanges 
differences 
£m
At 31 December 
2012 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 70.6 0.5 – – (2.4) 68.7
Current ﬁnancial assets 5.8 (5.7) – – (0.1) –
Loans due within one year (4.0) 3.7 – – – (0.3)
Loans due after more than one year (190.1) 7 .6 – – 7 .3 (1 75.2)
Total (1 17 .7) 6.1 – – 4.8 (106.8)
The current ﬁnancial assets are cash deposits which have a deposit term of greater than 3 months and so cannot be classiﬁed as cash or  
cash equivalents.
Year to 31 December 201 1
At 1 January 
201 1 
£m
Cash ﬂow 
£m
Acquisitions 
£m
Non-cash 
changes 
£m
Exchanges  
differences 
£m
At 31 December  
201 1 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 54.6 14.1 – – 1.9 70.6
Current ﬁnancial assets – 5.5 – – 0.3 5.8
Loans due within one year (4.1) 3.8 (1.7) (2.1) 0.1 (4.0)
Loans due after more than one year (154.1) (37 .5) – 2.1 (0.6) (190.1)
Total (103.6) (14.1) (1.7) – 1.7 (1 17 .7)
33 Capital commitments
201 2  
£m
201 1 
£m
Future capital expenditure not provided in the accounts
 Contracts placed 0.2 0.7
34 Contingent liabilities
There are legal claims against the Company or its subsidiary undertakings but none where the Board takes the view that it is likely that 
damages will be awarded against the Group which would have a materially adverse effect on its ﬁnancial position. 
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
11 0 35 Retirement beneﬁt obligations
Pension schemes
The Group operates a number of pension schemes of both the deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution types.
31 employees (201 1, 10) are members of four different deﬁned beneﬁt schemes and these schemes have approximately 1,600 (201 1, 1,600) 
deferred and current pensioners. The employer contributions made to these schemes during the year were £0.3m (201 1, £0.3m). 
The total assessed value of the schemes’ assets at 31 December 201 2, at their market value, is estimated at £102.7m (201 1, £103.2m) and the 
liabilities estimated at £100.5m (201 1, £98.4m). 
The Group has adopted IFRIC 14 which, depending on the rules of individual schemes, allows the Group to recognise pensions surpluses on 
the statement of ﬁnancial position where there is an unconditional right to a refund or beneﬁt available in the form of reduced contributions. 
The resultant aggregate net pension liability under IAS 19 is £1.5m (201 1, £1.0m asset). 
The market value of the schemes’ assets, the present value of the schemes’ liabilities and the net pension assets and liability under IAS 19 at 
31 December were as follows: 
Schemes in 
surplus with a 
right to  
a refund  
2012 
£m
Other  
schemes 
2012 
£m
Total 
2012 
£m
Schemes in 
surplus with a 
right to  
a refund  
201 1 
£m
Other  
schemes 
201 1 
£m
Total 
201 1 
£m
Annuities 7.3 1.8 9. 1 8.3 1.0 9.3
Equities 23.7 – 23.7 26.3 – 26.3
Gilts and bonds 69.1 – 69.1 66.4 – 66.4
Other including cash 0.8 – 0.8 1.2 – 1.2
Total market value of assets 100.9 1.8 102.7 102.2 1.0 103.2
Present value of scheme liabilities (90.2) (10.3) (100.5) (91.3) (7 . 1 ) (98.4)
Funded status 10.7 (8.5) 2.2 10.9 (6. 1 ) 4.8
Disallowed assets (3.7) – (3.7) (3.8) – (3.8)
Surplus / (deﬁcit) in the schemes 7.0 (8.5) (1.5) 7. 1 ( 6. 1 ) 1 .0
The expected long term rates of return on gilts and bonds are estimated at 3.3 % per annum (201 1, 3.3 % ) and those for equities at 7 .2% per 
annum (201 1, 7 .2% ). The returns on the annuities match the relevant liabilities.
Asset return assumptions have been derived by considering best estimates for the expected long-term real rates of return from the main asset 
classes. For gilts and corporate bonds, a return in line with the returns available in the markets for these assets has been assumed. For equities, 
a higher rate of return than for bond assets has been assumed, to reﬂect the greater returns anticipated over the long term from a mixture of 
UK and overseas equities.
The mortality assumption used at the 2012 year end is based on the SAPS all lives tables with a 90% multiplier for executives and directors 
and 1 10% for all other members, appropriate for each member’s year of birth. Allowance is made for improvements in line with CMI (201 1) 
projections with a 1.5 % pa long-term trend from 2002. The expected lifetime of a participant who is age 65 and the expected lifetime of 
a participant who will be age 65 in 1 5 years are shown in years below based on these mortality tables:
Age
Other members
Executive and director 
members
Males Females Males Females
65 21.9 24.2 23.6 25.9
65 in 15 years 23.5 26.0 25.3 27 .6
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
111 Financial accounts
35 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
The mortality assumption used at the 201 1 year end is based on 92 series tables with an allowance for improvements in line with the 
medium cohort based on each member’s year of birth, subject to a minimum level of future improvement of 1.5 %. Executive and director 
members have an age rating of - 1 years and all other members have an age rating of +2 applied to the base table. The expected lifetime of a 
participant who is age 65 and the expected lifetime of a participant who will be age 65 in 15 years are shown in years below based on these 
mortality tables:
Age
Other members
Executive and  
director members
Males Females Males Females
65 21.3 24.6 24.3 27 .5
65 in 15 years 23.4 26.7 26.3 29.6
For IAS 19 the schemes’ liabilities have been calculated under the projected unit method and the main ﬁnancial assumptions were inﬂation of 
3. 15 % per annum (201 1, 3.3 % ), salary increases of 4. 15 % – 5. 1 5 % per annum (201 1, 4.3 % – 5.3 % ) and a discount rate for liabilities of 4.4 % 
per annum (201 1, 4.95 % ).
Analysis of the deﬁned beneﬁt cost for the year ended 31 December
201 2  
£m
201 1 
£m
Current service cost 0.4 0.4
Total charge to operating proﬁt 0.4 0.4
Expected return on pension investments (4.3) (5.5)
Interest on pension liabilities 4.8 5.1
Finance charge / (income) relating to pensions 0.5 (0.4)
Total charge / (credit) to income statement before deduction of tax 0.9 –
The charge in respect of deﬁned contribution schemes was £1.7m during 2012 (201 1, £1.4m).
Changes in the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligations are analysed as follows:
2012 201 1
Total 
£m
Funded  
plans 
£m
Un-funded 
plans 
£m
Total 
£m
Funded  
plans 
£m
Un-funded 
plans 
£m
As at 1 January 98.4 92.8 5.6 95.3 90.1 5.2
Current service cost 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.3 0.1
Interest cost 4.8 4.5 0.3 5.1 4.8 0.3
Actuarial gains and losses 1.3 0.9 0.4 2.1 2.0 0.1
Beneﬁts paid by the fund (5.9) (5.9) – (4.4) (4.4) –
Beneﬁts paid by the Group (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) (0. 1) – (0. 1)
Acquisition 1.8 1.8 – –––
As at 31 December 100.5 94.2 6.3 98.4 92.8 5.6
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
11 2 35 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are analysed as follows:
201 2  
£m
201 1 
£m
As at 1 January 103.2 98.2
Employer contributions 0.3 0.3
Beneﬁts paid by the fund (5.9) (4.4)
Expected return on assets 4.3 5.5
Asset gain / (loss) 0.1 3.6
Acquisition 0.7 –
As at 31 December 102.7 103.2
Employer contributions of £0.3m (201 1, £0.3m) during the year include £nil (201 1, £nil) of additional payments made over and above regular 
contributions.
During 2012 the Group acquired Microwave Materials Group NV, which has a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme in Belgium. The scheme has 24 active 
members.
History of experience gains and losses:
2012  
£m
201 1 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 102.7 103.2 98.2 91.4 84.3
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 100.5 (98.4) (95.3) (92.7) (82.0)
Funded status 2.2 4.8 2.9 (1.3) 2.3
Disallowed assets (3.7) (3.8) (3.0) (1.2) (2.2)
(Deﬁcit) / surplus in the schemes (1.5) 1.0 (0.1) (2.5) 0.1
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities 5.3 – (0.2) 0.7 (1.8)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets 0.1 3.6 4.0 5.8 (13.3)
The movement for the year in the statement of comprehensive income is:
2012  
£m
201 1 
£m
Other actuarial losses / (gains) (1.2) 1.5
Movement in disallowed assets 0.1 (0.8)
(1. 1) 0.7
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income is a loss of £16.3m 
(201 1, £15.2m loss) since 1 January 2004. The directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would 
have been recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income from the date of inception of the company schemes to 
31 December 2003.
The Group estimates that the total value of contributions to deﬁned beneﬁt schemes will be £0.2m in 2013.
Within Sweden, the Group operates a scheme, included within a multiemployer plan, for its employees which is insured with Alecta. This 
scheme is a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme, but Alecta is currently unable to provide sufﬁcient information to report the Group’s proportional share 
of the deﬁned beneﬁt commitments and the assets under management and expenses associated with the scheme. Consequently, Alecta 
cannot provide the information regarding the Group’s proportional share of the surplus or deﬁcit in the scheme. As a result the scheme is 
accounted for as if it were a deﬁned contribution scheme, although it is actually a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
11 3 Financial accounts
Statement of directors’ responsibilities p115
Independent auditor’s report p116
Parent company balance sheet p117
Notes to the ﬁnancial  
statements of parent company p118
LAIRD PLC 
Parent company accounts
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
11 4 The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the independent auditor set out on page 1 16, is made with  
a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditor in relation to the accounts.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare accounts for each ﬁnancial year which give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company as at the end of the ﬁnancial year and of the proﬁt or loss of the Company for the ﬁnancial year.
The directors consider that in compiling the accounts on pages 1 1 7 to 128, which have been prepared on a going concern basis, the Company 
has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates and that 
all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the 
ﬁnancial position of the Company which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. They are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 
ﬁnancial information included on the Company’s website.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
in relation to the accounts
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
11 5 Financial accounts
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of Laird PLC
We have audited the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Parent 
company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 15. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 1 15, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the parent company ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the parent company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the parent company ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the parent company ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give 
reasonable assurance that the parent company ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
the overall presentation of the parent company ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on parent company ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the parent company ﬁnancial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2012;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies  
Act 2006; and
 the information given in the Directors’ report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the parent company ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
 the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012.
 




Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
11 6 Note 2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Fixed assets
 2Tangible assets 0.1 0.1
 3Investments 766.0 766.0
766.1 766. 1
Current assets
 4 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 3.5 3.3
 5 Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 301.0 310.4
Cash at bank 5.5 8.5
310.0 322.2
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
 6Borrowings – (2. 1)
 8Other (10.5) (1 5. 1 )
(10.5) (1 7 .2)
Net current assets 299.5 305.0
Total assets less current liabilities 1,065.6 1,071. 1
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
 6Borrowings (175.2) (1 90. 1 )
 9 Deferred tax liabilities – (0. 1)
 8Other (377.1) (397 .4)
(552.3) (587 .6)
Net assets excluding pension deﬁcit 513.3 483.5
10 Pension deﬁcit (6.3) (5.6)
507.0 477 .9
Capital and reserves
1 1 Ordinary share capital 75.2 74.9
12 Share premium account 271.0 269.7
12 Special reserve – 55.5
12 Retained earnings 165.1 78.8
12 Treasury shares (4.3) (1.0)
Equity shareholders’ funds 507.0 477 .9
The accounts were approved by the Board of directors on 28 February 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
 
D C Lockwood 
J C Silver 
Directors
Parent company balance sheet
as at 31 December 201 2
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
11 7 Financial accounts
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The accounts of Laird PLC are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost 
convention, modiﬁed to include revaluation to fair value of certain ﬁnancial instruments and accounting for pensions under FRS 1 7 . This is 
in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards. As consolidated ﬁnancial information for ﬁnancial instruments and ﬁnancial risk 
management has been disclosed under IFRS 7 in the Group accounts, the parent is exempt from FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. 
The disclosures in respect of the Company are included in the Group accounts. Pensions are disclosed in accordance with FRS 1 7 . The ﬁnancial 
statements present information about the Company as an individual undertaking and not about the Group. The Company has taken 
advantage of the exemption contained in FRS1 ‘Cash Flow Statements’ and has not produced a cash ﬂow statement.
Proﬁt and loss
As permitted by the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has not presented its own proﬁt and loss account. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation of ﬁxed assets evenly over their expected useful lives, principally as follows:
Computer equipment 5 years or less
Motor vehicles 4 years
Other plant and machinery 13 years or less
A proportion of one year’s depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Pensions
The service cost of providing retirement beneﬁts to employees during the year is charged to the operating proﬁt or loss in the year. The full 
cost of providing amendments to beneﬁts in respect of past service and gains and losses arising on unanticipated settlements or curtailments 
are also charged to the operating proﬁt or loss in the year. The expected return on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the 
market value of scheme assets at the start of the year and the expected increase in liabilities of the schemes are included within other ﬁnance 
(charges)/income. Differences between actual and expected returns on assets during the year are recognised in the statement of recognised 
gains and losses in the year together with differences from changes in assumptions. The deﬁcit on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes, net of 
deferred tax, is reported on the balance sheet as the pension liability. The accounts include pension schemes where the parent company is the 
principal employer.
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Dividends
Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a legal liability of the 
Company.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but which have not reversed at the balance sheet date 
where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, or to receive more 
tax subject to the following:
(a)  Deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary assets such as property unless a binding sale agreement exists at the 
balance sheet date. Where rollover relief is available on an asset then deferred tax is not recognised.
(b)  Deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries unless dividends have been accrued as receivable or there is a 
binding agreement to distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date.
(c)  Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Assets are regarded as recoverable when it is 
regarded as more likely than not there will be suitable taxable proﬁts from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences 
can be deducted.
Notes to the ﬁnancial 
statements of parent company
for the year ended 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
11 8 1 Accounting policies continued
Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are 
translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Financial assets 
Debtors are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Where the time value of money 
is material, debtors are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to 
recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote. The Company assesses at each 
balance sheet date whether a ﬁnancial asset or group of ﬁnancial assets is impaired. Gains and losses are recognised in the proﬁt and loss 
account when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired. 
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment. Trade and other receivables are discounted 
when the time value of money is considered material.
Financial liabilities
All ﬁnancial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, inclusive of any transaction costs. Measurement after initial recognition is at 
amortised cost, with the changes in the carrying amount being taken through the proﬁt and loss account.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses arising on the 
repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in ﬁnance income and ﬁnance expense.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Company uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments such as currency swap contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with 
foreign currency and interest rate ﬂuctuations. Such derivative ﬁnancial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which 
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is 
positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity 
proﬁles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the proﬁt and loss 
account. 
Share based payments
In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 20, the expense recognised in the Company proﬁt and loss account relates to equity 
settled grants made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on 1 January 2005.
The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), Medium Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) and Restricted Share Plan (RSP) shares awarded is 
estimated at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP , 
MTIP and RSP shares were awarded including market based performance conditions. The fair value of share options granted is estimated at 
the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were 
granted. Non-market performance conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
For grants that ultimately do not vest, charges previously made are reversed except that an expense is recognised for awards where vesting is 
conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisﬁed, provided 
all the other vesting conditions are satisﬁed.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has 
expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that 
will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. 
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the proﬁt and loss account, with a corresponding 
entry in equity.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
11 9 Financial accounts
1 Accounting policies continued
Share based payments continued
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modiﬁed, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modiﬁed. 
In addition, an expense is recognised for any modiﬁcation, which increases the total fair value of the share based payment, or is otherwise 
beneﬁcial to the employee as measured at the date of modiﬁcation.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation or settlement, 
and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately. 
2 Tangible assets
The ﬁxed assets of the Company were acquired at a cost of £0.9m (201 1, £0.9m) and have accumulated depreciation of £0.8m (201 1, £0.8m) 
charged against them. There were no additions or disposals during the year and depreciation in the year was £0. 1m (201 1, £0. 1m).
3 Investments in subsidiaries
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Shares in subsidiaries at cost 780.9 781.5
Less provisions for diminution in value (14.9) (1 5.5)
766.0 766.0
Principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2012 are disclosed in the Laird PLC consolidated ﬁnancial statements on page 129.
The movement in the net book value of investments in subsidiaries during the year was as follows:
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
At 1 January 766.0 768.0
Disposals – (2.0)
At 31 December 766.0 766.0
4 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1.5 1.9
Derivative ﬁnancial instrument 0.6 0.2
Prepayments and accrued income 0.5 0.8
Taxation 0.9 0.4
3.5 3.3
5 Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 296.5 308.3
Derivative ﬁnancial instrument 4.4 1.9
Prepayments and accrued income 0.1 0.2
301.0 310.4
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements of parent company continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
120 6 Borrowings
201 2  
£m
201 1  
£m
Due within one year:
US Private Placement loans due 2012 – 2.1
Due after more than one year:
US Private Placement loans due 2014 59.5 62.3
US Private Placement loans due 2016 26.4 27 .6
Bilateral revolving bank loans 89.3 100.2
175.2 190. 1
Total borrowings 175.2 192.2
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
Within one year
Other – 2.1
Between one and two years
Other 59.5 –
Between two and ﬁve years
Bank 89.3 100.2
Other 26.4 89.9
Total borrowings 175.2 192.2
Notes
(a)  Company borrowings are unsecured.
(b)  US Private Placement loans, arising from private placements of debt with US insurance companies, comprise $140m (201 1, $140m) 
repayable between 2014 and 2016 at an average ﬁxed rate of interest of 5.64 %.
(c)  The Company had committed bilateral bank loan facilities of £235m which were underwritten for in excess of three years. 
7 Financial instruments
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ and has not disclosed information 
required by that standard as the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements, in which the Company is included, provide equivalent disclosures 
for the Group under IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ .
8 Other creditors
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Due within one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 5.9 8.7
Social security costs 0.3 0.2
Other creditors 3.5 5.2
Accruals and deferred income 0.8 1.0
10.5 15.1
Due after more than one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 377 .1 397 .4
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
121 Financial accounts
9 Deferred taxation
Deferred tax liabilities have been recognised on other temporary differences of £nil (201 1, £0. 1m). 
The amount of deferred tax that has not been provided is £2.7m (201 1, £1.9m) where it is unlikely that future relief would be available at the 
balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on capital losses of £6.0m (201 1, £6.6m) where it is unlikely that future relief 
would be available at the balance sheet date.
10 Pension schemes
The Company operates two deﬁned beneﬁt schemes.
7 employees (201 1, 10) are members of these deﬁned beneﬁt schemes and these schemes have approximately 1,500 (201 1, 1,600) deferred 
and current pensioners. The employer contributions made to these schemes during the year were £0.3m (201 1, £0.3m). 
The total assessed value of the schemes’ assets at 31 December 2012 at their market value is estimated at £100.9m (201 1, £102.2m) and the 
liabilities estimated at £96.5m (201 1, £96.9m). 
The market value of the schemes’ assets, the present value of the schemes’ liabilities and the net pension liability under FRS 17 at 
31 December were as follows:
T otal  
201 2  
£m
T otal  
201 1  
£m
Annuities 7.3 8.3
Equities 23.7 26.3
Gilts and bonds 69.1 66.4
Other including cash 0.8 1.2
Total market value of assets 100.9 102.2
Present value of scheme liabilities (96.5) (96.9)
Funded status 4.4 5.3
Disallowed assets (10.7) (10.9)
Deﬁcit in the schemes (6.3) (5.6)
The expected long-term rates of return on gilts and bonds are estimated at 3.3 % per annum (201 1, 3.3 % ) and those for equities at 7 .2% per 
annum (201 1, 7 .2% ). The returns on the annuities match the relevant liabilities.
Asset return assumptions have been derived by considering best estimates for the expected long-term real rates of return from the main asset 
classes. For gilts and corporate bonds, a return in line with the returns available in the markets for these assets has been assumed. For equities, 
a higher rate of return than for bond assets has been assumed, to reﬂect the greater returns anticipated over the long term from a mixture of 
UK and overseas equities.
The mortality assumption used at the 2012 year end is based on the SAPS all lives tables with a 90% multiplier for executives and directors 
and 1 10% for all other members, appropriate for each member’s year of birth. Allowance is made for improvements in line with CMI (201 1) 
projections with a 1.5 % pa long-term trend from 2002. The expected lifetime of a participant who is age 65 and the expected lifetime of a 
participant who will be age 65 in 15 years are shown in years below based on these mortality tables:
Age
Other members
Executive and  
director members
Males Females Males Females
65 21.9 24.2 23.6 25.9
65 in 15 years 23.5 26.0 25.3 27 .6
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements of parent company continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
122 10 Pension schemes continued
The mortality assumption used at the 201 1 year end is based on 92 series tables with an allowance for improvements in line with the 
medium cohort based on each member’s year of birth, subject to a minimum level of future improvement of 1.5 %. Executive and director 
members have an age rating of –1 years and all other members have an age rating of +2 applied to the base table. The expected lifetime of 
a participant who is age 65 and the expected lifetime of a participant who will be age 65 in 15 years are shown in years below based on these 
mortality tables:
Age Other members
Executive and director 
members
Males Females Males Females
65 21.3 24.6 24.3 27 .5
65 in 15 years 23.4 26.7 26.3 29.6
For FRS 1 7 the schemes’ liabilities have been calculated under the projected unit method and the main ﬁnancial assumptions were inﬂation of 
3. 15 % per annum (201 1, 3.3 % ), salary increases of 4. 15 % – 5. 1 5 % per annum (201 1, 4.3 % – 5.3 % ) and a discount rate for liabilities of 4.4 % 
per annum (201 1, 4.95 % ).
Analysis of the deﬁned beneﬁt cost for the year ended 31 December:
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Current service cost 0.3 0.4
Total charge to operating proﬁt 0.3 0.4
Expected return on pension investments (4.3) (5.5)
Interest on pension liabilities 4.7 5.1
Finance expense / (income) relating to pensions 0.4 (0.4)
Total charge / (credit) to proﬁt and loss account before deduction of tax 0.7 –
Changes in the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligations are analysed as follows:
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
As at 1 January 96.9 93.8
Current service cost 0.3 0.4
Interest cost 4.7 5.1
Actuarial gains and losses 0.6 2.1
Beneﬁts paid by the fund (5.9) (4.4)
Beneﬁts paid by the Company (0.1) (0. 1)
As at 31 December 96.5 96.9
The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation comprises £6.3m (201 1, £5.6m) arising from an unfunded plan, and £90.2m (201 1, £91.3m) from a scheme 
that is wholly funded.
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets are analysed as follows:
201 2  
£m
201 1  
£m
As at 1 January 102.2 97 . 1
Employer contributions 0.2 0.3
Beneﬁts paid (5.9) (4.3)
Expected return on assets 4.3 5.5
Asset gain / (loss) 0.1 3.6
 As at 31 December 100.9 102.2
Employer contributions of £0.2m (201 1, £0.3m) during the year include £nil (201 1, £nil) of additional payments made over and above regular 
contributions.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
123 Financial accounts
10 Pension schemes continued
History of experience gains and losses:
201 2  
£m
201 1  
£m
201 0  
£m
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 100.9 102.2 97 . 1 91.4 83.9
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (96.5) (96.9) (93.8) (92.7) (82.0)
Funded status 4.4 5.3 3.3 (1.3) 1.9
Disallowed assets (10.7) (10.9) (8.5) (3.5) (5.8)
Deﬁcit in the scheme (6.3) (5.6) (5.2) (4.8) (3.9)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities 5.3 – (0.2) 0.7 (1.8)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets 0.1 3.6 4.0 5.8 (13.3)
The movement for the year included within total recognised gains and losses:
201 2  
£m
201 1  
£m
Other actuarial losses (0.3) (0.8)
The estimated total value of contributions to deﬁned beneﬁt schemes will be £0.2m in 2013.
11 Issued share capital
Issued and fully paid 2012 201 1
Shares £m Shares £m
Ordinary shares of 28.125p each 
At 1 January 266,302,206 74.9 266,302,206 74.9
Issued for exercise of share options 1,108,714 0.3 ––
At 31 December 267,410,920 75.2 266,302,206 74.9
267 ,410,920 ordinary shares of 28. 125p each were in issue at the year end (201 1, 266,302,206 shares of 28. 125p each). 
At 31 December 2012, options to subscribe for 1,905,891 ordinary shares at prices between 125p and 397p were outstanding under the 
Company’s executive share option schemes (201 1, 3,623,443 ordinary shares at prices between 125p and 397p). Options outstanding under 
the schemes are held by 9 individuals and are exercisable at various times up to 13 August 2022. No further options have been granted since 
the year end.
12 Shareholders’ funds
Ordinary  
share capital  
£m
Share  
premium  
£m
Special  
reserve  
£m
Proﬁt and loss 
account  
£m
Investment in 
own shares  
£m
T otal  
£m
At 1 January 201 1 74.9 269.7 55.5 1 13.7 (1.4) 512.4
Total recognised gains and losses – – – (1 7 .4) – (1 7 .4)
Share based payments – – – 1.3 – 1.3
Vesting of LTIPs / Restricted shares – – – (0.4) 0.4 –
Dividends paid – – – (18.4) – (18.4)
At 1 January 2012 74.9 269.7 55.5 78.8 (1.0) 477 .9
Total recognised gains and losses – – – 53.3 – 53.3
Exercise of share options 0.3 1.3 – – – 1.6
Transfer between reserves –– (55.5) 55.5––
Share based payments – – – 1.8 – 1.8
Treasury shares –––– (4.4) (4.4)
Vesting of LTIPs – – – (1.1) 1.1 –
Dividends paid – – – (23.2) – (23.2)
At 31 December 2012 75.2 271.0 – 165.1 (4.3) 507 .0
No proﬁt and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements of parent company continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
124 12 Shareholders’ funds continued
A proﬁt after taxation of £53.6m (201 1, £16.6m loss) has been credited to the proﬁt and loss account brought forward of the Company after 
crediting exchange gains of £1.8m (201 1, £2.9m losses) and crediting dividends from subsidiary undertakings of £63.6m (201 1, £1.1m). Other 
movements in the proﬁt and loss account included within total recognised gains and losses were a loss of £0.3m (201 1, £0.8m). 
The special reserve of £55.5m was created by a transfer from the share premium account under High Court Sanction in December 1989. The 
special reserve was transferred to distributable reserves during the year. 
The investment in own shares are those held by the Laird 1990 Employee Beneﬁt Trust (‘the Trust’), as described in note 31 to the Group 
ﬁnancial statements on page 108. At 31 December 2012 the Trust held 2, 197 ,410 ordinary shares (201 1, 742,758). The shares held by the Trust 
had a total market value at that date of £4.5m (201 1, £1. 1m).
13 Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2012 the Company had contingent liabilities in respect of guarantees relating to the performance of contracts of subsidiary 
undertakings.
There are legal claims against the Company but none where the Board takes the view that it is likely that damages will be awarded against 
the Group which would have a materially adverse effect on its ﬁnancial position.
14 Share based payments
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 55 to 66, sets out the general terms and conditions for the Long T erm Incentive Plan (LTIP), the 
1994 Share Option Scheme and the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan and the vesting requirements for the 201 2 LTIP and share option grants. 
Performance Conditions for awards made in 2010 under the LTIP and Option Plan 
The vesting requirements for the share options granted in 2010 are:
Level of vesting in 2013 Applicable Performance Target:  
2012 Earnings per share (EPS)
Threshold 30% vesting
Full vesting
16.6 pence
21.3 pence
The extent to which awards granted under the LTIP in 2010 vest will be determined by reference to the Company’s total shareholder return 
relative to FTSE 250 companies (excluding investment trusts) and the following targets will apply:
Total Shareholder Return  
Performance Level
Amount of Award Vesting  
%
Upper Quartile
Median to Upper Quartile
Below Median
Full vesting
Pro rata between 30% and full vesting
Nil
Performance Conditions for awards made in 2011 under the LTIP and Option Plan 
Two measures were used to determine the extent to which awards made in 201 1 would vest: achievement of a TSR target and an underlying 
EPS target. For LTIP awards made in 201 1, 75 % is based on achievement of the TSR target and 25 % is based on achievement of the EPS 
target. For awards under the Option Plan, 75 % is based on EPS and 25 % on TSR. The EPS and TSR conditions are as follows:
TSR condition
For 201 1 and 2012, the list of 20 companies as outlined on page 61 in the Directors’ remuneration report were selected as the comparator 
group to be used for these purposes:
The level of vesting of the applicable portion of the award (75 % of the award under the LTIP; 25 % of the award under the Option Plan) is 
dependent on Laird’s relative TSR performance over three years against this group of companies, as follows:
Total Shareholder Return  
Performance Level
Amount of Award Vesting for TSR Measure  
%
Upper Quartile
Median to Upper Quartile
Below Median
Full vesting
Pro-rata between 30% and full Vesting
Nil
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
125 Financial accounts
14 Share based payments continued
EPS condition
The level of vesting of the applicable portion of the award (75 % of the award under the Option Plan; 25 % of the award under the LTIP) is 
dependent on Laird’s EPS performance for the 2013 ﬁnancial year, as follows:
Level of vesting in 2014 for EPS Measure Applicable Performance Target:  
2013 Earnings per share (EPS)
Threshold 30% vesting
Full vesting
18.3 pence
22.4 pence
There is pro-rata vesting on a straight-line basis where EPS is between 18.3 pence and 22.4 pence.
Shares awarded under the Medium Term Incentive Plan (MTIP), vest three years after they have been awarded to the employee at nil cost, 
provided the employee is still employed by the Group. There are vesting conditions attached to the MTIP awards which specify proﬁt and EPS 
targets for the years to December 2012 and 2013. 
Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) vest three years after they have been awarded to the employee at nil cost, provided the 
employee is still employed by the Group. 
All share based payments are equity settled. An expense of £1.6m was recognised in the year (201 1, £1.3m) before employer’s national insurance 
and was based on the fair value of the LTIP shares awarded, the RSP shares awarded and the share options granted.
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, end of the year and those granted during the year.
201 2  
Number
201 1  
Number
Outstanding as at 1 January 1,579,765 1,603,235
Granted during the year 428,690 1,021,51 3
Lapsed during the year (329,656) (922,71 7)
Vested and exercised during the year (545,348) (1 22,266)
Outstanding as at 31 December 1,133,451 1,579,765
The following table shows the number of MTIP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
201 2  
Number
201 1  
Number
Outstanding as at 1 January – –
Granted during the year 1,239,381 –
Lapsed during the year (69,009) –
Vested and exercised during the year – –
Outstanding as at 31 December 1,170,372 –
The following table shows the number of RSP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
201 2  
Number
201 1  
Number
Outstanding as at 1 January 1,568,686 1, 168,210
Granted during the year 676,670 901,200
Lapsed during the year (179,400) (328,678)
Vested and exercised during the year – (1 72,046)
Outstanding as at 31 December 2,065,956 1,568,686
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements of parent company continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
126 14 Share based payments continued
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options under the 1994 Share 
Option Scheme.
201 2  
Number
2012  
WAEP  
(p)
201 1  
Number
201 1  
WAEP  
(p)
Outstanding as at 1 January
Option prices 1 15–205p 272,467 140 272,467 140
272,467 140
Exercised
Option prices 1 15–205p (272,467) 140 ––
Expired –– ––
–– 272,467 140
Outstanding as at 31 December
Option prices 1 15–205p –– 272,467 140
–– 272,467 140
Exercisable at 31 December –– 272,467 140
As at 1 January, options over 272,467 shares (201 1, 272,467 shares) were accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 and resulted in a charge 
against proﬁts. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise in 2012 was 220p, no options from the above scheme were exercised 
during 201 1. For the share options outstanding at 31 December 201 1, the weighted average remaining contractual life was 0.9 years. 
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share options issued under 
the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan.
201 2  
Number
2012  
WAEP  
(p)
201 1  
Number
201 1  
WAEP  
(p)
Outstanding as at 1 January
Option prices 1 15–205p 2,110,564 145 1,769,995 1 42
Option prices 206–280p 889,392 263 889,392 263
Option prices 281–397p 351,020 397 351,020 397
Option prices 398–510p –– 314,478 434
3,350,976 203 3,324,885 229
Issued 371,707 217 771,634 150
Exercised
Option prices 1 15–205p (836,247) 148 ––
Option prices 206–280p –– ––
Option prices 281–397p –– ––
Option prices 398–510p –– ––
Lapsed (980,545) 190 (745,543) 265
1,905,891 236 3,350,976 203
Outstanding as at 31 December
Option prices 1 15–205p 580,882 141 2,1 10,564 145
Option prices 206–280p 1,047 ,767 246 889,392 263
Option prices 281–397p 277,242 397 351,020 397
Option prices 398–510p –– ––
1,905,891 236 3,350,976 203
Exercisable at 31 December 1,024,553 292 1,5 1 3,379 277
All options in the table above were recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as noted above. The weighted average share price at the date of 
exercise in 2012 was 207p, no options were exercised in 201 1. For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2012, the weighted average 
remaining contractual life is 5. 1 years (201 1, 6.0 years). 
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking into account the 
terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including the market based performance conditions set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report. 
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
127 Financial accounts
14 Share based payments continued
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, taking into 
account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. The non-market performance conditions set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
The weighted average fair value (in pence) of LTIP , MTIP , RSP and share options granted during the year was as follows:
2012 201 1
LTIP 150 76
MTIP 160 –
RSP 160 133
Share options 69 52
The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 201 1 and 31 December 2012.
L TIP ,  
MTIP & RSP 
2012
L TIP ,  
MTIP & RSP 
201 1
ESOP 
2012
ESOP 
201 1
Dividend yield ( % ) 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0
Expected share price volatility ( % ) 45 45 45 45
Expected comparator volatility ( % ) 23–69 30 N/A N/A
Risk-free interest rate ( % ) N/A N/A 1.4 3.1
Expected life of LTIP/option (years) 3.0 3.0 7.0 7.0
Weighted average share price (p) 187 .7 149.8 217 .6 149.8
The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. 
The expected share price volatility is based on historical volatility; average of monthly activity over the last three years. Expected volatility 
reﬂects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily prove to be the actual outcome. 
Dividends are not payable on shares prior to vesting and this is taken into account in calculating the fair value. 
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting.
15 Auditor’s remuneration
The Company paid £30,000 (201 1, £29,000) to its auditor in respect of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements of the Company.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual accounts of Laird 
PLC because Group ﬁnancial statements which are prepared are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Deﬁnitions
Group Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings 
Laird Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings 
Company Laird PLC
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements of parent company continued
for the year to 31 December 201 2
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
128 The following were the principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2012. All subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned, are held by 
a subsidiary undertaking, with the exception of Laird Technologies Taiwan, Inc. and operate principally in the country of incorporation or 
registration unless stated otherwise. The list excludes (under the provisions of Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006) certain subsidiary 
undertakings which do not materially affect the accounts
Name of company
Country of incorporation  
or registration Nature of business
AeroComm, Inc. USA Wireless Systems
Antenex, Inc. USA Wireless Systems
Cattron-Theimeg Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa Wireless Systems
Cattron-Theimeg Americas Ltd Brazil Wireless Systems
Cattron-Theimeg Europe GmbH & Co. KG Germany Wireless Systems
Cattron-Theimeg Inc. USA Wireless Systems
Centurion Electronics (Shanghai) Limited China Wireless Systems
Emerson & Cuming Microwave Products Inc USA EMI products
Emerson & Cuming Microwave Products NV Belgium EMI products
Kunshan Cateron Electronics Co., Ltd China EMI & thermal products
Laird Asia Limited Hong Kong Asia headquarters
Laird Technologies GmbH KaltenKirchen, Germany Thermal products
Laird Technologies GmbH Hildesheim, Germany Wireless Systems
Laird Technologies Gothenburg AB Sweden Thermal products
Laird Technologies Inc. USA EMI & thermal products 
Laird Technologies Japan, Inc. Japan Multiple products
Laird Technologies Korea Y.H. Korea Multiple products
Laird Technologies (M) SDN BHD Malaysia Wireless Systems
Laird Technologies S. de R. L. de C. V. Mexico EMI products
Laird Technologies (SEA) PTE Limited Singapore EMI products
Laird Technologies (Shanghai) Limited China EMI products
Laird Technologies (Shenzhen) Limited China Multiple products
Laird Technologies S.R.O. Czech Republic EMI, thermal & signal integrity products
Laird Technologies Taiwan, Inc. Taiwan Multiple products
R&F Products, Inc. USA EMI products
RecepTec Corp. USA Wireless Systems
Steward, Inc. USA Signal integrity products
Steward (Foshan) Magnetics Co. Ltd. China Signal integrity products 
Steward (Foshan) Magnetic Materials Co., Ltd. China Signal integrity products
Steward Pte Ltd Singapore Signal integrity products
Summit Data Communications Inc USA Telematics/M2M
Tianjin Laird Technologies Limited China EMI & thermal products
Thermagon Inc. USA Thermal products
Principal subsidiaries
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
129 Financial accounts
Trading results
2012  
£m
201 1  
£m
201 0  
£m
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Revenue
– continuing operations 520.2 491.3 567 .4 528.8 635.3
– discontinued operations 21.4 94.7–––
Total revenue 541.6 586.0 567 .4 528.8 635.3
Operating proﬁt
– continuing operations 68.1 58.4 46.4 33.6 68.5
– discontinued operations 1.5 1.0–––
69.6 59.4 46.4 33.6 68.5
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (13.9) (1 4. 1 ) (1 3. 1 ) (1 3.3) (1 1.4)
Exceptional items (1.7) (140.1) (36.9) (10.2) (20.3)
Proﬁt / (loss) on disposal of businesses 11.0 –– (1.9) –
Finance costs (net) before exceptionals (7.4) (6.7) (6.2) (7 . 1 ) (7 .9)
Financial instruments – fair value adjustments 0.4 (0.2) 1.2 1.6 (2.4)
Proﬁt / (loss) before tax 58.0 (101.7) (8.6) 2.7 26.5
Taxation (11.5) (1 7 .3) (7 .4) (6.2) (1 2.2)
Proﬁt / (loss) after tax 46.5 (1 19.0) (16.0) (3.5) 14.3
Underlying proﬁt before tax 60.7 51.7 40.2 26.5 60.6
Non-current assets 598.8 609.8 718.0 658.7 741.4
Current assets 237.4 270.5 253.7 225.6 259.5
Net borrowings+ 106.8 117 .7 1 03.6 45.4 1 39.5
Shareholders’ equity 440.9 440.4 574.9 579.6 585.3
Basic earnings per share* 17 .5 (44.8)p (6.0)p (1.7)p 7 .0p
Basic underlying earnings per share* 19. 1 16.2p 1 1.8p 9.6p 23.8p
Dividends per share* 10.0p 8.0p 6.3p 6.0p 10.3p
Dividend cover** 1.9 2.1 1.9 1.6 2.3
*  Comparative ﬁgures for earnings and dividends per share have been restated after adjusting for the bonus element of the 1 for 2 Rights Issue in 2009
**  Based on underlying earnings
+
  Net borrowings in 2011 are after deducting a £5.8m current ﬁnancial asset 
Comparative ﬁgures for discontinued operations have been restated for 201 1 only.
Five year summary
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
130 Registered ofﬁce
Laird PLC 
100 Pall Mall 
London SW1Y 5NQ 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7468 4040 
Fax: +44 (0)20 7839 2921 
www.laird-plc.com  
Registered in England – No. 55513
Financial calendar
1 March 2013 Announcement of 2012 full year results
3 May 2013  Annual General Meeting & Q1 Interim 
Management Statement
10 May 2013 Record date for ﬁnal dividend
7 June 2013 Payment date of ﬁnal dividend
1 August 2013 Announcement of 2013 half year results
October 2013  Q3 Interim Management Statement
November 2013 Record date for interim dividend
December 2013 Payment of interim dividend
Advisers
Company brokers
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
Espirito Santo Investment Bank
Financial advisers
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Principal bankers
HSBC Bank plc
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Commerzbank AG
Principal lawyers
Ashurst LLP
Proskauer Rose LLP
Shareholder administrative enquiries
Adminstrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in Laird PLC, such 
as the loss of a share certiﬁcate, dividend payments, or a change of 
address should be directed, in the ﬁrst instance, to our Registrars:
Capita Registrars
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU 
T elephone:  
From within the UK: 0871 664 0300 
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open 8.30am 
–5.30pm Monday–Friday). 
From outside the UK: +44 (0)20 8639 3399 
Fax: +44(0)1484 60091 1 
Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com 
www.capitashareportal.com
Capita Registrars also offer a number of online facilities in  
respect of your shareholding, so please log on to the website  
www.capitashareportal.com to register. You will need to input 
your name, investor code and postcode. You will also be asked to 
provide an email address and to select a password. Should you have 
any questions about this service, please email Capita Registrars on 
shareportal@capita.co.uk.
More shareholder information can be found on the Investor Relations 
page of Laird’s website: www.laird-plc.com/laird/investor-relations.
Dividend bank mandates
It is recommended that your dividends be paid directly into a 
bank or building society account. Notiﬁcation will be sent to your 
shareholder registered address when a dividend is paid. Please 
contact the Company’s Registrar, Capita Registrars, for a dividend 
mandate form or register your mandate details online at  
www.capitashareportal.com. 

Shareholder information
Analysis of shareholders as at 31 December 2012
Size of shareholding
Number of 
holders % of total Total holding % of total
Up to 5,000 shares 2,937 80.8% 3,131,240 1.2%
5,001 to 50,000 shares 51 1 14.1 % 7 ,31 1,761 2.7%
50,001 to 200,000 shares 89 2.4 % 9,365,736 3.5 %
Over 200,000 shares 97 2.7% 247 ,602,183 92.6 %
Total 3,634 100.0% 267 ,4 10,920 100.0%
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
13 1 Additional information
CIP
Continuous Improvement Programme
CO
2
Carbon dioxide
DC
Direct Current
DPPM
Defective parts per million
DTRs
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
EICC
Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition
EHS
Environmental, Health and Safety Policy
EMI
Electromagnetic Interference
EU
European Union
GHG
Greenhouse gas
GPS
Global Positioning System
HVAC
Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning
IMS
Integrated Management System
I/O
Input/Output
ISO
International Organisation for Standardisation
KPI
Key Performance Indicator
LED
Light-emitting Diode
M2M
Machine to machine
MIMO
Multiple Input, Multiple Output
OEM
Original Equipment Manufacturer
OHSAS
Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services
RAMP
Range-Ampliﬁed MultiPoint
R&D
Research and Development
REACH
Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical 
substances
RF
Radio Frequency
RFID
Radio Frequency Identiﬁcation
RoHS
Restriction of Hazardous Substances
SIP
Signal Integrity Products
TEA
Thermal Electric Assemblies
TIM
Thermal Interface Materials
VOC
Volatile Organic Compounds
Wi-Fi
Wireless Fidelity (802. 1 1)
WLAN
Wireless Local Area Network (sometimes also Wi-Fi)
Glossary
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
132 Core Silk is produced at a mill that is certiﬁed 
with the ISO14001 environmental management 
standard. Produced at a mill that is certiﬁed to  
the EMAS environmental management standard, 
up to 200gsm (No FIN-000021), for 220gsm  
and above (No D-140-00006). FSC Mix.
Design and production: Radley Yeldar www.ry.com Laird PLC 
100 Pall Mall 
London 
SW1Y 5NQ
T el: +44 (0)20 7468 4040 
F ax: +44 (0)20 7839 2921
Email (investors): ir @ laird-plc.com 
Email (general): info @ laird-plc.com
Visit www.laird-plc.com for up-to-date 
investor information including our past 
ﬁnancial results and download our 
Investor Relations App.
Find out more
