 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Protecting  
electronics,  
enabling  
connectivity
Laird PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Smart Technology. Delivered. Protecting electronics and 
enabling connectivity
We are a global technology company focused on providing 
systems, components and solutions that protect electronics 
from electromagnetic interference and heat, and that enable 
connectivity in mission-critical wireless applications and 
antenna systems.
We are a global leader in the field of radio frequency (RF) 
engineering and in the design, development and supply 
of innovative technology that allows people, organisations 
and applications to connect efficiently. 
Our aim is to be a trusted partner to our customers by 
delivering problem-solving solutions through Innovation, 
Reliable Fulfilment, and Speed.  In this year’s report
In 2014 we continued to deliver on our strategy 
of creating long-term value by investing for growth 
and creating strategic differentiation
Strategic Report
Performance highlights 2
Chairman’s statement 11
Chief Executive’s review 12
Our strategy 16
Corporate social responsibility 20
Performance materials 32
Wireless systems 38
Chief Financial Officer’s report 44
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors 50
Corporate governance report 52
Directors’ remuneration report 64
Annual Report on  
Remuneration  86
Financial Statements
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities  100
Independent auditor’s report 101
Group income statement 106
Group statement of 
comprehensive income 107
Parent company  
balance sheet 154
Principal subsidiaries 167
Five year summary 168
Additional information
Shareholder information 169
Glossary 170
Page 12 
Chief Executive’s review
We are seeing the results 
of executing against 
our strategy, building 
a strong business with 
a clearly defined vision 
for capturing value for 
both our customers 
and investors.
Page 4  
Laird at a glance
We protect 
electronics and 
enable connectivity 
in mission-critical applications.
Page 16 
Our strategy
Our strategy is focused 
on capturing and creating 
value through the strategic 
differentiators of innovation, 
reliable fulfilment and speed.
Page 20 
Corporate social 
responsibility
Our strategy is 
supported by our 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
programme as we build 
relationships with the 
communities in which 
we work and build 
employee pride in 
our company.
Page 44 
Chief Financial Officer’s 
report
Profitable growth 
underpins our robust 
financial position with 
good cash conversion 
and the financial 
resources to pursue our 
strategic objectives. 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
1
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Over the past two years, we have 
focused on investing in innovation 
and diversifying our customer base. 
Customers rely on our design teams 
to develop innovative product 
solutions, from product conception 
through to efficient manufacturing. 
This strategic focus has resulted in 
increased business from both new 
and existing customers, diversifying 
our customer base.
Investing for growth 
Our products provide mission-critical 
protection and connectivity in harsh and 
demanding operating environments for Radio 
Frequency (RF) technology. Our products 
are used in a wide range of applications and 
end markets, from smartphones, automotive, 
and medical applications to large scale 
installations for railways, ports, mines and 
military uses.
Our engineers work closely with customers 
designing bespoke solutions that capture value 
for both the customer and for our business. 
Our design centres and manufacturing 
facilities, located worldwide on three 
continents, enable us to respond quickly to 
customers’ requirements, from innovative 
design to reliable fulfilment and speed.
Strong financial performance with 
good organic growth for the year
• 5% increase in total revenue in Sterling to £564.9m
1
 
(£2013, £537.0m).
• 8% organic
2
 increase in revenue.
• 12% increase in operating profit in US$.
• 9% organic growth in Performance Materials, driven 
by strong performances in smartphones and mobile 
LTE/4G investment.
• 8% organic growth in Wireless Systems, driven by 
automotive/M2M applications.
• 5% increase in underlying profit before tax
3
 to £63.2m 
(2013, £60.1m) after increased investment in R&D and 
a £4m currency headwind.
• Full year dividend increased by 4%. Proposed final 
dividend per share of 8.23p (2013, 7.90p). 
Delivering against our strategy 
for growth and creating value
• Successfully delivered on our strategy to diversify 
our customer base with 6 customers over $25m in 
revenues (2013, 5 customers) and 79 customers over 
$1m (2013, 70 customers).
• Six consecutive quarters of organic revenue growth.
• Innovation and customer mindshare underpinned 
by 10% increase in gross R&D investment to $81.9m 
(2013, $74.4m). Expanded production footprint with 
new factories in China, Vietnam and the United States 
and a new design centre in South Korea.
• Successful acquisition of Model Solution in South 
Korea, opening up new markets and customers.
Performance highlights
We continue to deliver against our strategy
of investing for growth
1
 Translated at $1.65/£ which is the average exchange rate over the year 
(2013, $1.56/£).
2
 Organic revenue growth is defined as the prior year’s base revenue 
including revenue from newly acquired companies as if we had owned 
those acquired companies for the same period in the prior year. 
Total revenue is based on the absolute increase in revenue from the 
prior year including newly acquired companies without adjustment.
3
 Underlying profit before tax and earnings per share are stated before 
exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and 
US capitalised development costs, gain/loss on disposal of businesses, 
impact arising from fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition 
transaction costs. 
2
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial highlights
Good diversification of our customer base
Revenue
+8% organic growth
2
 
+11% total growth 
2014 2013
$932.0m
$839.8m
 
Revenue
1
 
+5% total growth 
2014 2013
£564.9m
£537.0m
 
Statutory profit  
after tax
+63% 
2014 2013
£50.2m
£30.8m
 
Underlying profit  
before tax
+5% 
2014 2013
£63.2m
£60.1m
Operating margin
 
 
2014 2013
12.6%
12.5%
 
Underlying basic earnings 
per share (pence)
+3% 
2014 2013
19.1p
18.6p
 
Dividends per share 
(pence)
+4% 
2014 2013
12.5p
12.0p
 
Over $25m
2014 2013
6
5 
 
$10m – $25m
2014 2013
8  8
 
$1m – 10m
2014 2013
65 
 57
 
 $932.0m  £564.9m  £50.2m  £63.2m
 12.6%  19.1p  12.5p
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
3
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Laird at a glance
We protect electronics and enable connectivity
in mission-critical applications
 Performance Materials 
We design and supply a full range of electromagnetic 
interference (EMI) shielding materials, thermal 
management solutions and signal integrity products 
(SIP). Our products provide critical protection for a 
wide range of electronics, allowing them to function 
and connect effectively. These products isolate and 
protect sensitive electronics from interference and 
stop them from interacting with other components. 
Our Performance Materials products are supplied to 
a broad range of markets including IT and telecom, 
smartphones, automotive, industrial applications, 
consumer and medical. Product life cycles in 
Performance Materials tend to be 12-18 months for 
products such as smartphones, often with large 
scale product launches. Our customers value 
highly our ability to develop innovative design 
solutions combined with high production capacity 
whilst meeting exacting quality standards (reliable 
fulfilment) and speed of response throughout the 
design and fulfilment process.
 Wireless Systems
Our Wireless Systems products enable mission-
critical connectivity and remote smart systems, with 
primary markets in automotive, telecoms, industrial 
and medical. Reliable connectivity is mission-
critical in environments such as transport, industrial 
applications, military and medicine. Our ability to 
deliver innovative solutions in the field of wireless 
connectivity reliably contributes to our strong 
customer mindshare. 
We design, manufacture and supply a broad range 
of products and solutions that enable wireless 
communication such as antennae, embedded 
wireless modules, telematics products, M2M devices, 
wireless automation and control systems, along with 
software solutions to support asset management 
systems in specialised industrial applications. 
Revenue by market segment
1
2
3
4
5
6
1. IT/Telecom 31%
2. Smartphone 28%
3. Other industrial 21%
4. Consumer 9%
5. Transportation 6%
6. Medical 5%
Revenue
$604.0m
+13% 
(2013, $536.2m)
£366.1m
+7% 
(2013, £342.8m)
Revenue
$328.0m
+8% 
(2013, $303.6m)
£198.8m
+2% 
(2013, £194.2m)
Revenue by market segment
1
2
3
4
1. Transport 61%
2. IT/Telecom 20%
3. Industrial 15%
4. Other 4%
4
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The challenge Our solutions
How we protect electronics Solutions
Electro-Magnetic Shielding
Electronic devices give off electromagnetic emissions 
as a by-product of electrical or magnetic activity 
that can interfere with performance. EMI shielding 
products isolate sensitive apparatus from these 
electromagnetic fields. 
The complexities of today’s electronics pose several design 
challenges. Protecting and isolating radio frequencies needs 
to be balanced with product constraints on space, weight 
and production capabilities. Our board level shielding 
expertise encompasses all phases of development, from 
design, rapid prototyping and pre-production through to 
final production and automated packaging.
Thermal Management Electronic applications generate heat that 
can adversely affect a device’s performance. Our 
thermal management materials and active cooling 
solutions provide a way to manage and actively 
control heat in a variety of electronic applications.
As a leader in thermoelectric management applications, 
we design and manufacture some of the world’s highest-
rated, thermally conductive materials for telecoms, 
instrumentation, and other industrial applications. Our 
Thermal Interface Materials (TIMs) soften and conform 
at operating temperatures to dramatically increase the 
removal of heat and so deliver more reliable operation. Our 
skilled engineers also combine this expertise with in-house 
design, assembly, and manufacturing expertise. 
Signal Integrity Our ferrite-based product family preserves high 
quality signal integrity by removing and filtering 
unwanted or harmful electromagnetic ‘noise’ 
generated by active components such as oscillators 
and microprocessors, as well as signal interference 
escaping from any electronic product through direct 
(DC) power lines.
Ferrite materials exhibit varying magnetic properties 
depending on the frequency at which they are excited. 
By changing the composition of ferrite, it is possible 
to enhance attenuation in selected frequency ranges. 
We have developed a family of ferrites with varying 
compositions to allow the user to manage every type 
of application, from pulse transformers to ground 
fault interrupters.
 
Telematics/M2M We are a global leader in the design, manufacture 
and delivery of automotive antennas, with state-of-
the-art designs including satellite radio, GPS, cellular, 
AM/FM, on-glass, amplifiers, Bluetooth and DAB to 
enable a range of wireless connectivity applications 
– from asset tracking to pay-as-you drive insurance 
and from fleet management to theft recovery. Our 
wireless communications capabilities are world class, 
recognising the multiple design and specification 
requirements that individual Original Equipment 
Manufacturers (OEMs) and vehicle models demand. 
We custom-engineer our antennae specifically for each 
customer, designed to optimise the RF environment for 
each vehicle’s connectivity requirements. For vehicular 
Telematics/M2M applications, we manufacture wireless 
Bluetooth and Wi-Fi radio modules, including custom 
power levels and extended-range versions for original 
equipment manufacturers and commercial applications.
Wireless Automation  
and Control
The high-reliability wireless remote control systems 
that we design and supply serve railways, mining, 
and industrial markets globally. These remote control 
systems are specifically designed for any equipment 
where the operator can remotely operate heavy 
machinery from a safer location. We also provide 
fully hosted networked applications software that 
enables customers to monitor their remote controlled 
assets in real-time.
We have state of the art remote control applications for 
cranes, railway systems, material handling equipment, 
mining machinery, mobile equipment, shiploaders, 
agricultural machinery, and virtually any equipment where 
the operator can be moved to a safer, more efficient location. 
The reliability of our wireless connectivity solutions is critical 
to proving a safe and effective working environment.
Infrastructure Antennae We provide high performance indoor and outdoor 
antennae solutions. In-building wireless antennae 
are particularly applicable in environments where 
aesthetics and wide angle coverage are necessary 
for successful wireless deployment. Their small size 
allows them to be hidden almost anywhere, providing 
an invisible solution for most applications.
Our solutions offer robust designs to address the 
challenges of large scale installations, such as multipath 
and interference, signal dead spots and shadows, ensuring 
comprehensive coverage inside or outside a building. 
Maintaining mission-critical signal integrity and adding 
Wi-Fi capacity are some of our product capabilities.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
5
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 both
design
manufacturing
Our global reach
We deliver solutions across the world
9,000
Approximately 
9,000 employees 
across 5 continents  
and 19 countries 
29
Engineering and  
manufacturing  
sites globally  
11
Customer design centres 
of excellence globally 
 
644
1
Registered patents 
 
 
Both
+
Design
Increased production 
footprint, WACS  
(wireless), Ohio
Oct
Summer 2015 
Opening of telematics 
plant, Sao Paulo
2015
Manufacturing
1
 Total patents as at 20 February 2015.
6
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 both
design
manufacturing
Increased production 
footprint, telematics  
plant, Shanghai
Oct
Acquisition of Model  
Solution, South Korea
Apr
New design centre, 
 South Korea
Apr
New plant opening, 
Vietnam
June
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
7
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our business model
Innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed 
underpin our business model 
and create shareholder value
Innovation
Reliable  
Fulfilment
Speed
Our commitment to 
innovation is reflected 
in our investment in R&D.
A consistent level of high 
quality engineering and 
manufacturing processes 
ensures we deliver quality 
product on time to 
our customers.
Fast response through the 
design cycle and speed 
of delivery matters to 
our customers.
Laird design, 
innovation  
and speed
Laird manufacturing,  
reliable fulfilment  
and speed
Customers
Customer 
mindshare
8
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic differentiation
Our business model is underpinned by our 
partnership with our customers who rely 
on our expertise in developing innovative 
solutions, combined with our commitment to 
reliable fulfilment and speed in responding to 
their needs. Our long-term partnerships, or 
‘customer mindshare’ help us to penetrate new 
product lines and platforms and thereby grow 
our business, creating long term value for our 
shareholders. We discuss our strategic vision in 
more detail in “Our strategy” on pages 16-17.
Innovation: first point of contact
Our design engineers engage with customers at every 
stage of the design process, creating value by providing 
creative solutions and engineering innovation. For some 
of our customers, speed of design, innovation and 
reliable fulfilment throughout the design and production 
cycle is of primary importance. For other customers, 
it is our ability to create mission-critical connectivity 
solutions in the most demanding environments, from 
stadiums to ports, mining and railways, that reinforces 
our customer mindshare. 
Reliable fulfilment: meeting customer 
demand throughout the product cycle
High standards of quality engineering, precision 
manufacturing expertise and manufacturing facilities 
close to our key customers ensure that we are able 
to deliver consistent quality throughout the peaks of 
production demand, smoothly and efficiently, regardless 
of customer demand. This is a capability that few of 
our competitors can match, and it underpins our well-
deserved reputation for reliable fulfilment. We have 
extensive manufacturing facilities around the globe, 
located close to our customers for just-in-time fulfilment. 
By having on-site testing and the highest industry 
accreditation, we provide assurance for customers 
across a wide range of demanding and harsh 
industrial applications.
Speed: fast response through the design 
and production cycle
One of our strategic differentiators is the speed with 
which we service customers, from design through to 
delivery. Customers highly value our ability to combine 
design innovation with fast and reliable fulfilment. 
We ensure that our production capabilities match our 
customers’ needs so that our customers never wait for 
our components.
We also have the ability to create rapid prototypes 
through our acquisition of Model Solution which helps 
our customers accelerate their product development. 
Building prototypes also helps strengthen our customer 
relationships, giving us valuable insight into future trends 
and designs.
Customer mindshare: long-term collaboration 
and reliable fulfilment 
The differentiation we offer through innovation, reliable 
fulfilment and speed means that our customers know 
that they can rely on us. The confidence that customers 
have in us as innovative design partners and consultants, 
combined with our position as an essential supply chain 
supplier sets us apart from the competition. It is this 
customer mindshare that underpins our business model.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
9
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our business model continued
Our business model focuses on becoming a trusted 
partner to our customers by providing a differentiated 
solution and unique customer value. This is manifested 
in our business model by: 
• creating innovative customer solutions that anticipate 
market changes and provide our customers with a 
step jump in competitive advantage (Innovation);
• ensuring high quality engineering and manufacturing 
processes that are able to meet rapid changes in 
customer demand to keep production lines running 
(Reliable fulfilment); 
• enabling accelerated new product launches by 
delivering unparallelled speed and access throughout 
the customer design process (Speed); and
• driving higher levels of customer engagement 
and fostering long-term strategic partnerships 
to define the future product and service needs 
(Customer mindshare).
Customer mindshare underpinned 
by The Five Pillars 
A key part of our strategy is to create an internal culture 
that fosters innovation, collaboration and a commitment 
to winning customer mindshare. Under our ‘One Laird’ 
banner, the Leadership team, comprised of our most 
senior managers, is tasked with implementing our 
business strategy across the Company. The Leadership 
team meets regularly to encourage collaboration 
across business units and corporate functions, to share 
knowledge and to win new business from both existing 
customers and new prospects. 
The Leadership team forms the core of the wider 
Management team, comprising the top 200 managers 
who meet annually. This group reaches deeper into 
the organisation to embed the culture, to cascade the 
strategy and provide guidance and leadership to the 
whole organisation. 
Our well-defined strategy to invest for growth and 
create value provides the framework to manage our 
businesses on a day-to-day basis on a global footprint. 
The strategy framework is the context for setting 
business objectives, investment decisions and M&A 
evaluations which feed into our operating model. 
Our corporate culture is based on being honest and 
ethical in all situations and treating each other, our 
customers and our suppliers with dignity and respect. 
We strongly believe that our corporate governance 
principles, which guide how we do business, contribute 
to customer mindshare and long-term growth.
Culture statement
“ We work as a global team of talented individuals 
to make a difference to our employees, business 
partners, and our world.
  We have an unwavering commitment to being honest 
and ethical in all situations and treating each other 
with dignity and respect.
  We create an open and engaging environment that 
thrives on high energy, adaptability and delivering 
on our commitments.
  Laird is a great place with great opportunities for 
personal and professional growth for those who work 
hard, are willing to learn and deliver results.”
Governance
Operating model
Culture
Leadership
Strategy
Whole organisation
Management team
CEO
Executive team
Leadership team
Our Five Pillar management philosophy based on the ‘One Laird’ 
concept ensures that a consistent and coherent strategic vision is 
cascaded down through to all employees, regardless of geographic 
location or line function. The Management and Leadership teams 
meet regularly throughout the year to exchange customer insights, 
best practice and innovative solutions.
10
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 I was delighted to have been appointed as Chairman of 
Laird early in 2014. I have now visited many Laird sites and 
have always been impressed with the strength and depth 
of our Management team and the loyalty and dedication 
of our employees. Laird is a technology company with 
great potential.
A growing and evolving technology company
In 2014, we began to see the results of Laird’s strategic 
investment and customer focus over the past two years 
under David Lockwood’s leadership. Delivering embedded 
technology that captures value for our customers through 
innovation and bespoke solutions is at the heart of our 
success. The investment in our operations and facilities 
meant we successfully met strong demand from a range 
of customers, strengthening our strategic differentiation 
through innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed. We  
have now reported six consecutive quarters of organic 
growth, averaging 8% for 2014 as a whole. This consistent 
performance was underpinned by new customer wins and 
closer partnerships with existing customers over the year.
Cultural transformation – One Laird
As always, our people are our most important asset. 
Their dedication to delivering the best for their customers 
is the cornerstone of our strategy of being a trusted partner 
for our clients.
Over the year, we continued our cultural transformation 
under the ‘One Laird’ banner, promoting improved 
collaboration across our businesses. This exchange of 
ideas and innovation delivered several new customer wins 
Chairman’s statement
A growing and evolving technology company
and laid the ground for ever greater collaboration going forward. 
We thank all our employees for their efforts over the year.
We believe that a strong and talented Leadership team is the 
foundation for global success in the fast-moving technology sector. 
Several times during the year, our senior managers meet to exchange 
ideas, best practice and customer insights, and once a year the 
broader management gather to develop their collective leadership 
skills. In 2015, I, together with the other non-executive directors, will 
be joining this meeting. As well as contributing the Board’s collective 
experience, we look to gain greater visibility and understanding from 
management of the implementation of the Company’s plans.
Board changes
My focus is on building a strong and collaborative board that provides 
the leadership and experience to help manage Laird’s next phase 
of growth. We have conducted a board effectiveness review to 
ensure that the Board collectively possesses the necessary breadth 
and depth of skills. I will look to reinforce our skills matrix with 
future appointments.
In this context, I am delighted to welcome Mike Parker to the 
Laird Board as Senior Independent Director. He brings significant 
experience as a director of large listed companies with major 
international operations which will be a very important asset to 
Laird as it grows. 
I would like to thank Paula Bell, Chairman of the Audit Committee for 
additionally undertaking the role of Senior Independent Director for 
the previous year and a half. 
I would also like to express the Company’s particular thanks to 
Jonathan Silver, who retires at the Annual General Meeting, after 
serving the company for 29 years, 21 as Chief Financial Officer. 
Jonathan has worked tirelessly for the Company through many 
changes and we wish him all the very best for the future. 
Dividends
We remain committed to delivering shareholder value through 
organic growth and a sustainable dividend policy. After substantial 
increases in the dividend over the last three financial years, the 
Board is adopting a progressive dividend policy, increasing returns to 
shareholders and taking into account both the underlying profitability 
of the business and its cash requirements, allowing dividend cover to 
be rebuilt over time.
This year, the Board has declared a 2014 final dividend of 8.23 pence 
(2013, 7.90 pence), resulting in a 4% increase in the total full year 
dividend to 12.5 pence per share (2013, 12.0 pence). The Board’s 
expectation is to increase dividends ahead of inflation over 
time, whilst taking into account underlying profitability, the cash 
requirements of the business and potential investment opportunities 
to drive future growth. The final dividend will be payable on 3 July 
2015 to shareholders on the register on 5 June 2015.
Outlook
Over the past two years we have built a strong foundation for 
delivering sustainable growth in our business. Our strategy of 
diversifying our customer base has created a more robust earnings 
stream, and the continuing investment in developing integrated 
modules and systems is leading to new customer opportunities and 
collaboration across our businesses. The customer mindshare we are 
developing across a number of our leading customers will help us 
remain at the technological forefront of our industry.
All these factors give us confidence in our strategy and our vision. 
We continue to focus on delivering shareholder value by executing 
against this strategy. After a successful year, 2015 has begun well, and 
we remain confident in the strength of our business.
Dr Martin Read, CBE 
Chairman
2 March 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
11
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chief Executive’s review
Delivering good growth in line with our strategy
2014 was a successful year for our 
business, with 8% organic revenue 
growth
4
 in US$ and total revenue 
growth in Sterling of 5%, reflecting 
currency headwinds but including 
the contribution from Model Solution. 
We have now achieved six consecutive 
quarters of growth, and this consistent 
performance was underpinned by new 
customer wins and closer partnerships 
with existing customers over the year. 
We are seeing the results of executing 
against our strategy, building a strong 
business with a clearly defined vision for 
capturing value for both our customers 
and investors. The investment in our 
people, facilities and R&D allowed us to 
meet strong demand from a range of 
customers, strengthening our strategic 
differentiation through innovation, 
reliable fulfilment and speed.
$932.0m
Total revenues
+11%
 (2013, $839.8m)
$117.4m
Operating profit
2
+12%
 (2013, $105.0m)
£63.2m
1
Underlying profit before tax
3
+5%
 (2013, £60.1m)
1
£564.9m
1
Total revenues
+5%
 (2013, £537.0m)
£71.2m
Operating profit
2
+6%
 (2013, £67.2m)
12
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our businesses performed well over the year, with 
Performance Materials growing 9% organically and 
benefiting from strong growth in smartphones and 
4G/LTE infrastructure. Wireless Systems grew 8% 
organically, with strong growth in automotive telematics. 
Operating margin was 12.6% (2013, 12.5%). As expected, 
operating profit was heavily weighted to the second 
half of the year, with the operating leverage from higher 
revenues and new investments coming on stream in the 
second half of the year.
Capital Investment supporting growth 
and geographical expansion
Over the year, we expanded our production footprint 
with new factories in China, Vietnam and the United 
States and opened a new design centre in South 
Korea. The Vietnam facility came on stream midway 
through 2014 and is already meeting customer demand. 
In Shanghai, we moved to an expanded facility to 
improve production efficiency, expand capacity 
and increase R&D capability to fulfil our order book 
commitments. In the United States, we moved our 
Wireless Automation and Control (WACS) operations to 
a new and larger facility in Warren Ohio.
Innovation supporting increasing customer mindshare 
and diversification
We continue to invest in innovation and the 
development of new solutions for our customers, 
with 9% of revenues reinvested in our research and 
development. This significant investment enables us to 
be at the forefront of technological development, keep 
ahead of our competitors and win customer mindshare. 
We increased R&D spending by 10% to $81.9m, after a 
similar increase in 2013. This has resulted in a number of 
new customer wins as well as additional new projects 
from our existing customers. 
The number of customers generating over $25m of 
revenues increased to six over the year, while customers 
generating over $1m increased to 79, achieving 
one of our strategic objectives and ensuring good 
diversification across our customer base. Equally, our 
commitment to reliable fulfilment and speed meant 
that we were able to meet strong demand from existing 
customers over the year.
We continue to develop our expertise in wireless 
connectivity, gaining new customers in automotive 
telematics and maintaining a leading market position in 
automotive antennae. The increasing electronic content 
per vehicle is contributing to our strong growth in this 
industry segment, as the concept of the connected car 
expands into mid-range models and the value of our 
content increases.
In rail, our software control and connectivity platform 
Tasverii™ Insight for Rail secured a new customer win in 
European rail connectivity software, increasing our total 
installations to over 5,000 worldwide. We anticipate 
extending this software platform to new industry sectors 
in the future, such as fleet asset management. 
Acquisitions
In April we acquired a 51% interest in Model Solution, a 
South Korean rapid prototyping and design company, 
for £20.5m. Model Solution has performed well since 
acquisition and meets our strategy of diversifying 
both our geographic reach and our customer base 
by supporting our expansion into the key South 
Korean market. 
We have a well-defined and disciplined approach to 
acquisitions, choosing to develop organically, where 
possible, through product extension into new markets 
and gaining mindshare with existing customers. 
We continue to explore opportunities to accelerate 
entry into fast-growing market segments that build on 
our existing skill set and contribute new technologies to 
expand our product offering.
Cultural change
Our investment in people, cultural change and 
improved skill sets under the “One Laird” banner has 
contributed to our success in winning new customers 
and has helped to increase collaboration across our 
businesses. We have made several senior appointments 
to improve operational execution and deliver increased 
differentiation across our product range. This investment 
in people and training has helped us improve customer 
appreciation of the value we contribute in innovation 
and design partnership. We thank all our employees for 
their enthusiasm and dedication to capturing value and 
customer mindshare.
Outlook
Over the past two years we have built a strong 
foundation for delivering sustainable growth in our 
business. Our strategy of diversifying our customer 
base has created a more robust earnings stream, and 
the continuing investment in developing integrated 
modules and systems is leading to new customer 
opportunities and collaboration across our businesses. 
The customer mindshare we are developing across a 
number of our leading customers will help us remain at 
the technological forefront in attractive growth markets.
All these factors give us confidence in our strategy 
and our vision. We continue to focus on delivering 
shareholder value by executing against this strategy. 
After a successful year in 2014, we have good 
momentum for further growth in 2015. 
David Lockwood, OBE  
Chief Executive
2 March 2015
1
 Translated at $1.65/£ which is the average exchange rate over the year 
(2013, $1.56/£).
2
 Operating profit is stated before exceptional items, amortisation of 
acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets, gain 
or loss on disposal of business and acquisition transaction costs.
3
 Underlying profit before tax and earnings per share are stated before 
exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and 
US capitalised development costs, gain/loss on disposal of businesses, 
impact arising from fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition 
transaction costs. 
4
 Organic revenue growth is defined as the increase or decrease in revenue, 
year-on-year, with the base revenue for the prior year including revenue 
from current year acquisitions as if Laird had owned the acquisitions for 
the same period in the prior year.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
13
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The need for connectivity and ever-increasing 
functionality is the driving force behind connecting 
the home, automobile, outside environment and 
other networks together. The increased exchange of 
information and connectivity is supported by continued 
build out in mobile infrastructure, such as 4G, LTE and 5G, 
advances in sensor technology, and enhanced computing 
power driving future growth in the electronics industry. 
We have been leaders in radio frequency (RF) 
engineering for many years. Higher precision and 
multifunctional precision metal and electronic 
components are essential to enable assembly of 
smaller devices while at the same time maintaining and 
improving functionality. Integrated circuits and packaging 
technology must adapt to handle increased power 
density and heat gain. New materials that can both 
provide heating and cooling properties are increasingly 
in demand, and our engineers are working with 
customers on ever more powerful prototypes. 
The exploding demand for ever more powerful devices 
and ubiquitous connectivity within the electronics 
environment creates a number of opportunities to 
underpin the long-term growth of our business. 
Telecoms
The emergence of high-speed wired networks, 3G, 
4G, and ‘always on’ broadband services has placed 
tremendous demands on telecommunications 
technologies and services, and on the needs of 
telecommunication product manufacturers. As base 
stations and switching gear are deployed in more remote 
regions, equipment needs to maintain the highest 
operating levels, performing consistently, often for over 
10 years, coping with fluctuating power surges in hostile 
operating environments. 
We are a global leader in helping major telecoms 
companies build out their 4G networks with a range 
of innovative EMI, advanced thermal management 
solutions and wireless communication/antenna solutions. 
Our thermal interface materials (TIMs) have become the 
industry standard for effective heat removal on base 
stations and providing thermoelectric assemblies to cool 
electronics in hot environments. Our proprietary Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) design tools help optimise antennas to a 
level of performance that other providers cannot achieve. 
Our markets
The opportunity to protect electronics and 
enable connectivity exists in a wide range of markets
Ubiquitous connectivity is creating 
an insatiable demand for information 
continuously from anywhere in the 
world. More things are connecting to 
the internet than people — Gartner 
forecasts that 4.9 billion connected 
things will be in use in 2015, up 30% 
from 2014, and will reach 25 billion 
by 2020.
Revenue by market segment
1
2 3
4
5
6
7 1. IT/Telecom 27%
2. Transportation 26%
3. Smartphones 18%
4. Industrial 11%
5. Other industrial 9%
6. Consumer 6%
7. Medical 3%
Revenue by destination
1
2
3
4
1. Asia 49%
2. North America 35%
3. Europe 14%
4. UK 2%
Revenue by product segment
1
2
3
4
5
6
1. EMI Shielding 46%
2 .  T e le m a t i c s / Wi r e less 
Modules
21%
3. Thermal 14%
4 .  Wi r e less A u t o m a t i o n 
and Control
8%
5. Infrastructure Antenna 6%
6 .  S i gn al i n t e gr i t y 5%
14
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Transportation
We are at the forefront of transport systems through 
our wireless connectivity solutions for driverless car 
technology, rail management and asset tracking 
solutions. With nearly 5,000 rail-related applications 
installed worldwide, we offer the most comprehensive 
combination of experience, product quality and 
technical support.
Smartphones and consumer electronics
Consumer electronics manufacturers know that future 
success depends on being able to constantly innovate, 
to design products that are thinner, lighter, more 
powerful and reliable than ever before. Reducing time 
to market is an important competitive advantage for 
our customers. Expectations of seamless and constant 
connectivity, increased computing processing power 
and form-friendly devices are becoming the norm. 
We provide heat management and EMI shielding 
solutions to a wide range of applications that optimise 
the performance of consumer applications. We also 
supply wireless connectivity to allow a virtual reality 
experience while optimising energy requirements.
Automotive/M2M
The automotive environment is a challenging one for 
RF technology. Yet the need for connectivity in the 
driving support and infotainment systems continue 
to proliferate. Modern luxury cars often have multiple 
antennae, each one customised to fit the form and 
function of the specific automotive model. As cars 
become ‘smarter’ and more connected, the demand 
for seamless, high quality connectivity is increasingly 
expected by consumers.
Our electronic design and engineering credentials 
within the global automotive industry are second 
to none. That is why market-leading automotive 
manufacturers trust us to deliver reliable, innovative 
solutions to some of the most complex EMI, thermal 
and wireless communications challenges. 
Our wireless communications capabilities are 
similarly world class, recognising the multiple design 
and specification requirements that automotive 
manufacturers and vehicle models demand. We have 
become a global leader in the design, manufacture 
and delivery of automotive antennas, with state-of-
the-art designs including satellite radio, GPS, cellular, 
AM/FM, on-glass, amplifiers, Bluetooth, DAB and 
many more. We also provide fully hosted networked 
application software that enables customers to 
monitor their remote controlled assets in real-time.
IT/Computing
The evolution of computing and IT equipment 
in recent years has led to dramatic increases in 
processing power, data rates, connectivity, display 
size and quality – all of which increase the likelihood of 
EMI and thermal management challenges, as well as 
creating the need for robust RF solutions to manage 
signal conflict. We have a leading position in thermal 
solutions for computing, especially notebook PCs and 
servers, which is recognised throughout the industry. 
Industrial
One of the most dynamic parts of the electronics 
industry, the industrial sector, comprises a wide range 
of solutions for an equally wide range of applications, 
from simple switches and motor controllers on 
individual machinery to the most complex wireless 
solutions in challenging environments such as factory, 
rail, mining, ports and materials handling. The ability 
to provide industrial grade connectivity in the most 
challenging and hostile industrial environments makes 
us a market leader in industrial wireless solutions.
Healthcare/Medical
There are few more demanding or essential markets 
for reliable wireless connectivity, EMI and thermal 
management than the healthcare sector, and 
specifically how they are applied to sophisticated 
and often mission-critical electronic medical devices. 
A hospital is a complex organisation that deals with 
a great deal of data, including critical and sensitive 
patient data, in a very challenging RF environment. 
Over the last several years, there has been a dynamic 
shift in the types of medical devices found within a 
hospital. What were once nomadic computing devices, 
such as a heavy laptop or computer station, have now 
transformed into small, lightweight mobile devices. 
Today’s portable medical devices often are used while 
the user moves from one place to the next and require 
a persistent network connection. Therefore, medical 
devices create an even greater challenge for hospitals 
when it comes to running persistent applications.
From EMI suppression to advanced temperature 
control using thermoelectric modules, we are 
committed to providing superior products upon 
which medical suppliers can depend, including the 
very latest wireless communications technologies.
Military
Defence applications demand superior performance 
under the most demanding conditions. We have built a 
reputation for quality, reliability and performance that 
is second to none. We are the preferred supplier for 
EMI shielding and custom absorbers for a wide range 
of defence applications.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
15
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our strategy
Our strategy for growth has four strands
We choose to operate in selected markets away from commoditised areas of electronics 
where we can add value through our innovation, our heritage as a global leader in radio 
frequency (RF) engineering and our ability to design highly differentiated solutions 
for our customers. 
Our strategy is focused on capturing and creating value through the strategic differentiators of innovation, reliable 
fulfilment and speed. The demand for thinner, more powerful electronic devices requires increasingly innovative 
solutions in protecting electronics from heat and signal interference. Seamless connectivity equally is becoming the 
norm for product performance. In mission-critical situations such as mining, hospitals and industrial processes, our 
ability to provide dependable and innovative solutions creates our strong competitive advantage.
Existing MARKET New
Existing PRODUCT New
Product development
Market development
 1
 Core business
Our established product lines deliver strong growth and 
profitability which underpin our growth and investment. 
We build on our strong customer relationships to win new 
business from customers with proven product solutions, 
reliable fulfilment and speed in response to customer need. 
Our focus in this market segment is on strengthening our 
customer partnerships and proven product solutions to create 
incremental growth to fund future growth.
 2
 Market development
Our innovative product solutions help us to penetrate new 
markets and new geographies through collaboration between 
our business units and applying our proven expertise to new 
challenges. We seek to exploit our expertise in adjacent market 
segments and across businesses to create new opportunities. 
We combine this technical expertise with our business model 
for operational and strategic focus to drive growth through 
market development, research and investment priorities and 
new products and technologies.
 3
 Technology development
Our proven expertise in RF technology provides a strong 
basis for further growth through innovation and product 
development for our strong customer relations. We invest 
approximately 9% of our revenues in research and 
development which in turn drives future growth in our 
businesses through new product development, design 
innovation and customer mindshare. 
4
 Mergers and acquisitions
Where feasible, we seek to extend our product solutions 
and market reach organically by collaborating across our 
businesses and leveraging our customer mindshare. 
However, we actively evaluate market opportunities that 
allow us to leapfrog a technology generation or that add 
to our product solutions through carefully considered 
inorganic opportunities.
 1
 2
 3
 4
Technology  
development
Organic business  
development
New business unit 
products
Mergers & acquisitions
New customers
New geographic  
expansion
New business units
Core business
Customer and product 
focused growth
Market development
New market segments
New geographies
Adjacent markets 
across business units
16
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic focus 2014 objectives KPIs
Customer diversification Continue to diversify within and between 
market sectors.
Increase the number of significant 
customers across the Company.
In 2014: 6 customers over 
$25m (2013, 5 customers).
8 customers between $10m  
and $25m (2013, 8 customers).
65 customers between $1m  
and $10m (2013, 57 customers).
Drive strategic  
differentiation 
Increasing use of automation processes.
Precision engineering focus and Business 
Design Centres rollout.
Reliable sampling and rapid prototyping.
Demonstrating our value to 
protect pricing.
Continue to build the right key 
relationships between our senior people 
and customers.
Revenue and margin growth.
Internal target for low defective parts 
per million (DPPM).
Focus on innovation Accelerated product roadmaps.
Drive collaboration and innovation.
Expansion of Business Design Centres 
providing local on-the-ground 
innovation support.
R&D investment, which increased by 
10% to $81.9m (2013, $74.4m).
Scorecard: number of granted  
patents has increased to 644
1
 
(2013 December, 570).
Reduction in sampling lead times.
Market entry strategies Continue to identify and penetrate 
new market segments and 
geographic markets.
Target top tier OEMs in select 
vertical markets.
Penetration of new market segments 
and geographies.
Changing our 
Company culture
Continue to empower leadership teams 
to ensure managers have the autonomy 
to make business decisions quickly.
Further collaborative working.
Encourage people to assess opportunity 
in the light of our long-term vision, rather 
than as incremental adjustments to where 
we are today.
Revenue growth.
See ‘Recognising and rewarding 
performance’ section in the  
CSR report on pages 20-29.
To evaluate the success of our growth strategy, we have set clear objectives for our performance and measure those 
against well-defined KPIs (‘key performance indicators’).
1
 Total patents as at 20 February 2015.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
17
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Profitable growth ($m)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
640.0
788.5
824.0
839.8
237.7
152.0
33.8    
    
932.0
Definition: Current and prior 
years’ revenue expressed in 
US Dollars.
Rationale: The majority 
of our revenues are in US 
Dollars, or in currencies 
linked to the US Dollar.
Underlying profit before 
tax (£m)
1,2
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
63.2
60.1
52.7 
60.7 
40.2 
Definition: Profit before tax, 
stated before exceptional 
items, amortisation of 
acquired intangible assets, 
gain/loss on disposal of 
businesses, impact arising 
from the fair valuing of 
financial instruments and 
acquisition transaction costs.
Rationale: The Board believes 
this to be a consistent 
measure of performance 
of businesses, the impact 
arising from the fair valuing 
of financial instruments and 
acquisition transaction costs.
Effective tax rate (%)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
18.4
17.5
17.1
16.5
21.9
Definition: Underlying tax 
charge expressed as a % of 
underlying profit before tax.
Rationale: An effective 
measure of the tax cost 
of doing business across 
the globe.
Underlying basic 
earnings per share 
(pence)
3
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
19.1
18.6
16.5
19.1
11.8
Definition: Underlying profit 
after tax, divided by the 
weighted average number 
of shares outstanding during 
the year.
Rationale: Underlying 
earnings attributable to 
each share.
Return on capital 
employed (%)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
12.7
12.0
9.6
12.4
7.0
Definition: Underlying 
profit before interest and 
tax expressed as a % of the 
average capital employed 
for the Group over the year.
Rationale: Provides an 
indication of how we are 
performing relative to 
peers and against its cost 
of capital.
Expenditure on R&D  
as a % of revenue
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
8.8 8.9
6.9
7.0
7.4
Definition: Expenditure on 
research and development 
before capitalised 
development as a % 
of revenue.
Rationale: Measures the 
investment in research and 
development, demonstrating 
our commitment to 
innovation to drive growth.
Key Performance Indicators
We are delivering success against our KPIs
Driving profitable growth
Investing in our business
 Continuing Discontinued
 12.7% 8.8%
 $932.0m £63.2m 18.4% 19.1p
18
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CO2 emissions 
(tonnes/$1m of revenue)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
58.77
68.36
43.73
67.98
48.77
Definition: Greenhouse 
gas emissions (calculated 
by applying specific factors 
to power consumption) 
expressed as a proportion 
of revenue.
Rationale: we try to 
minimise the environmental 
impact of our operations.
Electricity consumption 
(kWh/$1m of revenue)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
78,603
89,571
93,408
88,805
105,433
Definition: Total purchased 
electricity consumption for 
the Group in kWh, expressed 
as a proportion of revenue.
Rationale: Measures energy 
utilisation.
Waste to landfill 
(tonnes/$1m of revenue)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
0.72
0.75
0.66
0.73
0.81
Definition: Total waste to 
landfill sites expressed as a 
proportion of revenue.
Rationale: Measures waste 
management.
Reportable accidents 
(per 100 employees  
annualised)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
0.21 0.21
0.13
0.20
0.14
Definition: Reportable 
accidents expressed per 100 
employees annualised.
Rationale: Monitors safety 
by recording the incidence 
and causes of accidents that 
result in medical attention or 
lost time or restricted duty.
Operating cash 
conversion (%)
4
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
74
65
101
109
89
Definition: Operating cash 
flow expressed as a % of 
underlying operating profit 
before interest and tax.
Rationale: Measures cash 
generation and our capacity 
to pay dividends and 
service debt.
Net debt: EBITDA
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
1.6
1.3
1.4
1.2
1.4
Definition: Ratio of Group 
net debt to underlying 
profit before interest, 
tax, depreciation and 
amortisation as defined 
in our banking covenants.
Rationale: Confirms 
compliance with the covenant 
(maximum of 3.5 times) 
and indicates extent of 
headroom covenants.
Interest cover (times)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
9.7
10.2
10.0 10.1
8.0
Definition: Ratio of 
underlying profit before 
interest and tax to the annual 
interest charge within the 
income statement, as defined 
by the banking covenants.
Rationale: Confirms 
compliance with the covenant 
(minimum of 3.0 times) and 
indicates extent of headroom.
Being a good corporate citizen
Maintaining financial discipline/strength
 58.77
 74%
 78,603
 1.6x
 0.72
 9.7x
 0.21
1
   Translated at $1.65/£ which is the average exchange rate over the year.
2
   Underlying profit before tax and earnings per share are stated before 
exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and 
US capitalised development costs, gain/loss on disposal of businesses, 
impact arising from fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition 
transaction costs. 
3
  The weighted average number of shares is 266.9m (2013, 266.0m). 
4
  Excluding Vietnam investment.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
19
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate social responsibility
Growing our business sustainably
Driving strategic differentiation 
and customer diversification and 
developing the Company culture 
form key elements of our strategy. 
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for corporate 
social responsibility (CSR) and recognises that behaving 
ethically, working safely, reducing our environmental 
impact, attracting, recognising and rewarding our 
people and contributing to our communities creates and 
sustains long-term value for our shareholders and our 
wider stakeholders.
We work with our customers, suppliers and employees 
to determine the issues that are material to our business 
by a continuous process of review, consultation 
and assessment. 
We look to mitigate risk and improve our operating 
efficiencies by being a responsible organisation. 
The outputs of aligning our corporate social 
responsibility throughout our business are fourfold: 
sustained growth, lower environmental impact, 
stronger communities and ultimately, robust 
stakeholder relationships. 
To achieve our business goals we 
need to look after the communities, 
people and environment which 
support our operations, so we  
can continue delivering value  
to all our stakeholders.
David Lockwood, OBE 
Chief Executive
Our responsibility framework
Ethics 
We have an unwavering commitment to high 
standards of business ethics. We apply these 
standards to all dealings with employees, customers, 
suppliers and other stakeholders.
Environment, health & safety 
We control our environmental impacts by working 
hard to ensure our sites are safe and that natural 
resources are used carefully. We can create cost 
efficiencies by reducing waste which in turn reduces 
costs and helps improve our operating margins.
Employees 
We aim to attract and retain the best people by 
creating a rewarding place to work which offers 
great opportunities. We aim to build a pool of talent 
who can work together to deliver our company-
wide strategy.
Communities 
We support the communities in which we work by 
considering the impact of what we do and fulfilling 
our commitments to them.
20
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Ethics
We have an unwavering commitment to high standards 
of business ethics. We apply these standards to all 
dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and other 
stakeholders. We place a high priority on compliance 
with all legislative and regulatory requirements and on 
the maintenance of high ethical standards, within each 
of the territories and jurisdictions in which we conduct 
our business. 
Our Global Code of Conduct (the Code) provides the 
guiding principles and forms the basis for how we do 
business and is underpinned by the common values 
of honesty, integrity and fairness. The Code, which 
is available on our website and reviewed annually, 
provides the framework for our policies, processes and 
procedures relating to human rights, equal opportunity, 
ethics, compliance, anti-harassment, conflicts of interest 
and regulatory compliance. 
Our global Ethics Hotline provides a confidential way 
for employees to raise concerns about inappropriate 
behaviour anonymously. The hotline utilises an 
independent telephone and internet provider, offering 
support in local languages and has an internal escalation 
and resolution process. A review of the independent 
telephone and internet provider is currently underway 
and will be concluded shortly. 
FTSE4Good
We have been a member of the FTSE4Good Index 
Series since 2004 with an overall Environmental, 
Social and Governance rating of 3 out of 5. This index 
has been designed to objectively measure the 
performance of companies that meet globally 
recognised corporate responsibility standards. 
Our stakeholders can use this index to make 
investment decisions, as a benchmarking tool or 
purely for research purposes. We can also use this 
as a reference by which we can assess the progress 
and achievement of our evolving corporate social 
responsibility programme. The FTSE4Good inclusion 
criteria are updated on a regular basis and continuous 
improvement is required to merit ongoing inclusion 
in the index which is reviewed semi-annually in 
March and September. The criteria are also regularly 
assessed by Ethical Investment Research Services 
(EIRIS), an independent research organisation.
2014 highlights:
• We win the Recognition of Achievement award 
from Ford Motor Company for commitment to 
environmental and social responsibility.
Ethics
• The Risk and Governance Group has overseen 
our CSR programme, including reviewing and 
approving the Global Code of Conduct and all 
other primary policies.
• Our Lean Six Sigma/Continuous Improvement 
Programme delivered approximately £6.8m 
in savings.
• Our current Carbon Disclosure Project submission 
received the highest score we have received to date 
as it continues to improve each year.
Environment, health & safety
• No major environmental compliance issues at any 
facility globally in 2014.
• 14 Laird facilities currently hold active Integrated 
Management Systems (IMS) certification status to 
ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 standards; two facilities 
hold active ISO 14001 certification. All of these 
facilities successfully completed certification, re-
certification or surveillance audits during the year.
• Overall electricity usage (kWh), per $1m of 
revenue across all locations, decreased by 12.2% 
(2014, 78,603; 2013, 89,571).
• Our Shanghai Performance Materials; Shanghai 
Telematics; Shunde and Chongqing factories 
in China successfully achieved Work Safety 
Standardisation grade 3 certification from the 
Chinese government.
• Our Shanghai Performance Materials site in 
China received for a second consecutive year the 
Advanced Unit of Safe Production award for 2014 
issued by the Shanghai Xinzhuang Industrial Park 
Municipal Government.
Employees
• An online learning management system called 
KNOWLEDGEnetwork that provides in excess of 
100 different e-learning courses was launched.
Communities
• During the year we donated £26,925 
(2013, £30,925), including our share of the schools 
assistance programme, to charities worldwide.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
21
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance
CSR governance structure
Board
Risk and Governance 
Group
Community  
Policy Officer
Business units
The governance structure of our CSR programme 
provides clear lines of responsibility from the operational 
level to the Board. Strong governance is essential to 
embedding responsible business practices across 
the Group. The strategy is developed and overseen 
by the Risk and Governance Group (RGG) which is 
chaired by the Chief Executive and includes the Chief 
Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Human 
Resources Officer and the Company Secretary (who also 
fulfils the role of Community Policy Officer). Outcomes, 
actions and issues from all meetings are reported to 
the Board at each meeting. The RGG works alongside 
functional heads in each business unit to develop their 
own CSR priorities within the strategy established for 
the Company. The Community Policy Officer works 
alongside the Chief Executive and the Board to liaise 
with the businesses and decide on charitable donations 
and community projects that will be supported 
during the year. 
Delivering to our customers 
In 2014, we were recognised for our work in the area 
of Corporate Responsibility with the Recognition 
of Achievement award from Ford Motor Company. 
The Recognition of Achievement awards honour 
suppliers who improved customer satisfaction by 
providing significant contributions in key areas including 
new customer-focused technology and corporate 
responsibility. The award was part of Ford’s 16th annual 
World Excellence Awards held in May 2014 at their 
headquarters in Dearborn, Michigan.
We met the qualifications set out by Ford for their 
Recognition of Achievement awards, including ISO 14001 
Certification. For the Corporate Responsibility Award, 
we submitted examples of policies and procedures 
that highlight the Company’s commitment to general 
corporate citizenship, environmental leadership and 
social responsibility leadership. We also provided results 
of Company programmes aimed to reduce landfill 
waste, water conservation and energy use. As examples 
of the Company’s commitment to being a good 
corporate citizen, we shared information about outreach 
efforts and charity events hosted by local facilities 
around the world.
An Operations Leadership team was established 
in 2013 to support the development of worldwide 
innovative operations solutions that are critical to 
enhancing our competitive position and enabling our 
strategic differentiation. The team is chaired by the 
Vice President of Quality and Continuous Improvement 
and membership is comprised of the Vice President of 
Operations from every business unit as well as senior IT 
representatives. This team facilitates interaction between 
different parts of the business in order to collaborate 
and leverage expertise to solve operational challenges 
more rapidly. We aim to ensure we consistently deliver 
to our customers by assessing the safety, quality, service 
and cost of our operations and deliver our solutions at 
speed which requires flexible operations. 
Our business model helps provide the framework 
to allow us to have appropriate planning and risk 
management in place so we can mitigate the risks 
that have the potential to disrupt our business.
The Operations Leadership team has undertaken several 
initiatives in 2014 that are improving our manufacturing 
processes worldwide. In addition, the team has 
increased the Lean Six Sigma deployment efforts in all 
of our business units’ operations which have resulted 
in significant space savings, manpower savings, scrap 
reductions and lead time reductions across all targeted 
production lines.
Corporate social responsibility continued
Tom Cochran (second from left) receives the Ford Recognition of 
Achievement award.
22
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 During the year we continued to see measurable gains 
in our manufacturing processes and product quality 
alongside cost reductions through our Lean Six Sigma/
CIP programme, which delivered approximately £6.8m 
in savings.
The Operations Leadership team utilises our well 
established Continuous Improvement Process (CIP) 
programme to drive its improvement objectives 
worldwide. The CIP programme contributes to 
improvements in overall business processes by ensuring 
our plants deliver high quality product and increasing 
operational efficiency and responsiveness to customers. 
This in turn positively benefits our profitability and 
customer satisfaction. Customer satisfaction is measured 
through formal customer surveys and customer centric 
internal KPIs. Information is reviewed by the businesses 
and support teams and through continued assessment 
and actions. We strive to continually improve customer 
satisfaction and ensure lessons learned are fed back into 
the product development and deployment processes.
Our CIP efforts in 2014 and our focus on reducing the 
number of customer complaints has resulted in a 12.5% 
reduction in the customer complaint rate year-on-year.
Building strategic partnerships with our suppliers 
We have built up strong relationships with our suppliers 
over many years and they are critical in helping us 
achieve our strategic objectives and delivering on our 
differentiation. They also play a significant role in our 
CSR programme supporting our efforts with the schools 
projects outlined on page 29. 
Our aim is to procure the best value goods and services 
from suppliers that meet our standards and deliver 
the services that our customers demand. We expect 
our suppliers to comply with all appropriate legislation 
and conform to high ethical, social and environmental 
standards in line with the EICC Code of Conduct, 
including the highest standards for health and safety. 
We have a robust procedure for supplier selection 
and qualification. We review our suppliers quarterly 
through our periodic supplier evaluation tool which was 
implemented in 2013 and uses a quality score together 
with evaluation report to monitor performance. 
We are continuing our efforts globally to localise raw 
material supplies. Local suppliers are preferred to 
reflect our continuing drive to support the communities 
in which we operate, as well as for the efficiencies 
in production costs. Lead times are also reduced and 
transportation costs and effects are minimised. 
We aim to source non-conflict minerals by ensuring 
our supply base is risk managed and selected suppliers 
are sent an EICC survey form to obtain a declaration 
as to the conflict mineral free status of their supply 
chain. The responses are collated into a company level 
report that is sent to customers who request them. 
As a supplier we are also audited by our customers 
in this regard.
Localised sourcing
We are focused on mitigating risk associated with the 
supply of raw materials. There were several notable 
achievements in 2014. A second supplier for a key raw 
ingredient for our thermal materials was established 
in China close to a manufacturing site which reduced 
the reliance on a single supplier located outside of 
China. Additionally, the manufacture of a critical 
electronic component was insourced to the Group 
away from two suppliers located in a country where 
geo-political instability could have stopped the flow of 
product to us.
Environment, health & safety
In 2014 we are pleased to report that there were no 
major environmental issues at any facility globally.
We work with our customers and suppliers to ensure we 
run responsible and efficient operations and look after 
the welfare of our employees.
As all manufacturing processes and resources have 
some impact on the environment, we strive to seek ways 
to optimise our operations to ensure the efficient use 
of energy and the minimisation of waste. Our goal is to 
continually deliver improvements to address these areas 
and create cost savings for the business.
Through the development of some of our products we 
also aim to help our customers reduce their impact on 
the environment. Our thermal business, for example, 
produces thermally conductive circuit boards for LED 
lights which help to remove excess heat, improving their 
performance and lifetime. Our power supply assemblies 
are able to utilise temperature differentials to generate 
power for sensor systems, eliminating the need to run 
expensive electrical wiring and often harvesting waste 
heat as an additional power source. Furthermore, six new 
Fabric over Foam (FOF) gasket and Conductive Foam 
products were released in 2014 that are all halogen 
free, in line with the International Electrochemical 
Commission’s (IEC) standard (IEC-61249-2-21), and meet 
the flame retardant requirements of the Underwriters 
Laboratories (UL) standard (UL 94). All of these new 
products are a part of the Laird EcoGreen trademarked 
family of products.
Sustainability initiatives
Our manufacturing sites are expected to develop 
sustainability plans to reduce their energy, waste and 
water usage, for example:
• Our site in Reynosa, Mexico installed a variable speed 
air compressor in the plant air system to run based on 
manufacturing demand. With the new configuration, 
the secondary, fixed rate compressor only runs when 
the variable speed compressor demand capacity is 
exceeded. This change should yield electricity savings 
of 229,000 kWh annually.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
23
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate social responsibility continued
• In Shunde, China, the site replaced three old ball 
mills with a new vibration mill and auto-slurry system 
resulting in electricity savings of 873,000kWh annually. 
Two electric baking ovens were also eliminated from 
the process resulting in energy savings of 
96,000 kWh /year. Production was also moved to a 
new energy efficient and higher capacity electric kiln 
allowing the site to retire and remove from service 
all low efficiency box kilns. This should result in total 
energy savings of 306,769 kWh annually.
• In Tianjin, China, the site installed a new ventilation 
system that utilises fresh, cold outside air in the 
autumn and winter months to cool a test equipment 
room. This modification eliminated the need to run 
air conditioning equipment and led to associated 
electricity savings of 23,800kWh /year. The site 
also installed radiant heat in the aluminium powder 
mixing room by tapping into the existing industrial 
park steam system, eliminating the use of two electric 
heaters and leading to associated electricity savings of 
112,320 kWh /year.
Smaller conservation projects in 2014 included:
• Our plant in Liberec, Czech Republic replaced 
approximately 50% of fluorescent bulbs and fixtures 
in production areas with energy efficient lighting. 
This resulted in annual electricity savings of  
216,720 kWh. The site also replaced old, draughty 
windows with new, energy efficient windows to 
prevent heat loss. The change reduced natural gas 
consumption 9,838 m
3
 per year and also eliminated 
the associated 19 metric tonnes of CO2 greenhouse 
gas emissions to the air.
• The facility in Shenzhen, China replaced 2,000 factory 
lamps with energy efficient LED lamps, resulting in 
annual electricity savings of 201,600 kWh.
• At our Earth City, USA site high bay warehouse metal 
halide lamps were replaced with high efficiency LED 
lamps. Annual electricity savings of 221,391 kWh.
We also focus on a sustainable supply chain and global 
efforts are being made to localise raw material supplies, 
manufacturing operations and significantly reduce the 
number of product and material shipments that are 
expedited by air, by using consolidated ocean shipments. 
Measuring our progress
We have non-financial KPIs which provide an ongoing 
benchmark of the effectiveness of our CSR programme 
(see page 19).
Carbon Disclosure Project 
In order to continue building good relationships 
with our customers and suppliers we strive to be as 
transparent as possible. We participate in the annual 
Information Request by the Carbon Disclosure Project 
to demonstrate the steps we are taking to improve 
energy efficiency and resource use across our 
operations. Our 2014 submission received the highest 
score we have received to date and it continues 
to improve year-on-year. We achieved a Carbon 
Disclosure score of 87 (2013, 76). This is categorised 
as a ‘high’ score
1
. We achieved a Carbon Performance 
score within band ‘C’ (2013, C), in line with the average 
score of participants. 
CO2 emissions
We have adopted a standard for our methodology 
of reporting based on our geographic locations and 
both current and previous year emissions have been 
restated to reflect this. We derive our Greenhouse Gas 
emissions (GHG) by using an emissions calculator within 
the EICC Carbon Reporting System tool that converts 
actual site-level energy usage data into tonnes CO2 
equivalent direct and indirect emissions. Our emissions 
have been calculated based on the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol
2
. Throughout 2014 we monitored energy 
usage and carbon emissions in our largest seven sites 
with an activity-based reduction target of 5% relative 
to total hours worked. These seven sites account for 
over 80% of our scope 1 and scope 2 CO2 emissions. 
Total greenhouse gas emissions at these sites in 2014 
were 42,805 tonnes of CO2, approximately 9.3% below 
2013 levels (47,204 tonnes of CO2). The majority of the 
reduction can be attributed to our operations in Shunde, 
China as the site implemented multiple energy savings 
projects in 2014 and they also worked approximately 18% 
less hours.
Tonnes of CO2 equivalent
Tonnes CO2/$1m revenue kWh/$1m revenue
Scope 1 4.7%
Scope 2 95.3%
Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions 
from sources that are owned or controlled by 
the entity such as fossil fuels burned on site 
and other direct sources. Scope 2 emissions 
are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the 
generation of electricity, heating and cooling, 
or steam generated off site but purchased 
by the entity.
2014 2013
58.77
68.36
2014 2013
78,603
89,571
1
2
1
  T y p i c a l l y i n d i c a t e s “Senior management understand the business issues 
related to climate change and are building climate related risks and 
opportunities into core business”.
2
  Greenhouse Gas Protocol is the most widely used international accounting 
tool for government and business leaders to recognise, quantify, 
and manage greenhouse gas emissions.
24
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Waste to landfill (tonnes/$1m revenue)
2014 2013
0.72
0.75
Waste management
We have an ongoing programme to examine how we 
can further minimise the generation of waste in order to 
protect the environment and reduce costs. There was 
an increase in waste to landfill (tonnes) generation in 
2014 at 668 tonnes (2013, 627 tonnes), which can be 
largely attributed to the inclusion of several new sites 
in the 2014 reporting cycle that were not included in 
the 2013 inventory. However, the overall activity ratio 
of waste to landfill per $1m of sales has decreased in 
2014 to 0.72 tonnes. 
Water usage
In 2014, we continued to monitor and measure water 
usage across our sites. In 2014, we monitored and 
measured a total of 450,115 cubic metres of water 
usage across our facilities. Approximately 90% of water 
usage is from our seven largest Asia-Pacific facilities 
(401,199 cubic metres). 
Currently, we have a water treatment and recycling 
process in a number of plants. For example, in our 
Shenzhen facility in China, contaminated rinse water 
is captured from plating operations and treated to 
sort solids and metals. It is then pumped through a 
series of specialised filters to purify the contaminated 
wastewater to an acceptable level to return to the plating 
lines for re-use. 
In 2014, several sites completed initiatives to reduce their 
water usage, for example:
• Our plant in Liberec, Czech Republic installed pressure 
switches on the faucets in the personnel locker rooms 
to reduce the consumption of hot and cold water and 
conserve 312 cubic metres of water.
• The Reynosa facility in Mexico installed equipment to 
regulate water consumption in their production lines 
rather than have a constant flow of water through 
their tank systems. This change conserved 979 cubic 
metres of water in 2014.
Having also established a reliable baseline for measuring 
our water consumption we are looking for opportunities 
to extend this process across other sites. As we set goals 
and initiatives for 2015 we plan to utilise this data to 
expand our water conservation efforts.
Occupational health and safety
Protecting the occupational health and safety of all our 
employees remains a priority. We commit significant 
time and resource to monitoring and assessing 
processes that could cause injury. We conduct regular 
safety audits, and workplace safety training is delivered 
to all operations teams. During 2014, additional global 
Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) tools were 
developed and implemented by our Operations 
Leadership team in order to improve the identification 
and evaluation of potential safety risks across our 
worldwide operations. These tools complement those 
initiated in 2013 and are designed to be proactive in 
preventing incidents by focusing on removing physical 
hazards. The site safety audit tool and job hazard 
analysis tool provides a standardised process by which 
sites can be systematically inspected to identify hazards 
and the appropriate controls implemented to reduce the 
risk of accidents and injuries.
Worldwide employee headcount for our operations 
increased while the number of reportable injuries 
remained stable at 23 in 2014. The rate of reportable 
injuries, per 100 employees annualised, also remained 
at 2013 levels of 0.21 based on an approximate 1.2% 
increase in hours worked from the previous year. 
The number of minor injuries decreased from 51 to 
41, reflecting our increased safety awareness efforts. 
The number of hand and finger injuries reduced from 
22% in 2013 to 4% in 2014 as we continue to focus 
on reducing the number of reportable injuries across 
all locations.
Reportable incidents per  
100 employees annualised
3
2014 2013
0.21 0.21
3
  We have adopted US OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration) reportable accident definitions across Laird in all regions 
to ensure we are consistent in our definitions and that we are accurately 
capturing notification and data on all reportable accidents that occur.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
25
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2014 Workplace safety initiatives
During 2014, the following health and safety initiatives 
were developed and implemented: 
• Our Shanghai Performance Materials site added 
an anti-skid coating to the floor in the employee 
dining hall as a preventive safety measure to reduce 
the likelihood of slip and fall injuries on the slick 
tile surface. 
• In Shunde, China, the factory made major industrial 
hygiene improvements to the working environment 
for employees through over 100 projects and ‘quick 
win’ improvements to control and capture iron 
powder dust generated during the manufacturing 
process. Those initiatives included manufacturing 
process simplification, shortening material 
transportation distances and reducing material 
pouring in the open environment and plant exhaust 
system upgrades.
Process safety management
To reduce risks associated with all of our chemical 
processes, we are continuing to effectively address 
Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and 
customer-required restricted substance management. 
This is achieved through proactive contact with our 
suppliers and continued periodic sampling of materials 
deemed to be ‘high risk’ through established internal 
protocols at our CNAS-A2LA certified
1
, high precision 
RoHS laboratory in Shenzhen, China. 
In 2014, over 10,000 samples were tested for RoHS 
restricted substances in our laboratories in Shenzhen 
and Kunshan, China. Our decision to conduct in-house 
testing resulted in net savings of approximately £0.6m 
(2013, £0.4m).
We also continue to actively address customer enquiries 
for REACH compliance data for our products, and 
develop our supply chain to ensure we continue to meet 
all REACH legal compliance obligations and supply 
products into the EU without disruption. Three phase-in 
substances were pre-registered in 2014 with anticipation 
of full registration in May 2018 based upon the 
importation band of 1-100 metric tonnes.
It is a strategic corporate directive that all our 
manufacturing sites deemed to have an environmental 
impact and EHS risk should implement certified 
integrated management systems to ISO 14001 and 
OHSAS 18001 standards.
Fourteen facilities currently hold active Integrated 
Management Systems (IMS) certification status to 
ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 standards and two facilities 
hold active ISO 14001 certification. All of these facilities 
successfully completed certification, re-certification 
or surveillance audits during the year. Newly certified 
locations in 2014 include Chongqing, China obtaining 
OHSAS 18001.
Employees
We believe that our people help determine the future of 
our business; they are the ones who reflect our values, 
run our operations and ensure we maintain Laird’s good 
relationships with our stakeholders. 
Management approach
Our business principles, Global Code of Conduct and 
core company values have helped create a distinctive 
‘One Laird’ culture. To help reinforce this we ensure 
all employees take the Employee Code of Conduct 
assessment each year. 
We recognise that we need to attract high quality 
people whilst retaining the skill and knowledge already 
present to give us a competitive advantage in the market 
and continue to lead the way in product development. 
To do this we need to:
• Maintain the right leadership culture.
• Support our employees in their personal and 
professional growth.
• Have an unwavering commitment to being honest 
and ethical.
• Provide a safe, stimulating work environment.
• Offer competitive remuneration.
Recognising and rewarding performance 
We offer competitive remuneration packages in 
each of the markets within which we operate that are 
benchmarked against our peers. We have in place 
comprehensive performance-based reward systems 
with the aim of attracting and retaining the best people. 
We also have awards schemes which celebrate those 
employees who put our values into practice. 
It is important to our success that the structure and 
level of our remuneration and rewards are consistent 
across the company. A profit sharing plan was set up 
during 2013 with the purpose of sharing a portion of 
the Company profits with employees in the Company. 
The plan is based on sharing a percentage of profits, 
above approved targets. The plan is self-funding and the 
aim is to align the entire organisation in achieving the 
Company’s goals and objectives and sharing as a team, 
the rewards of these efforts.
One Laird Recognition Programme
During 2014, the One Laird Recognition Programme was 
launched. The purpose of the programme is to enable 
employees to show their appreciation to team members 
across the Company by awarding Recognition Points 
which may be earned and then redeemed for a variety 
of rewards.
1
  The national accreditation body of China responsible for the 
accreditation of certification bodies, laboratories and inspection bodies. 
This certification is also recognised by the American Association for 
Laboratory Accreditation (A2LA) under the international  
co-operation scheme.
Corporate social responsibility continued
26
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Supporting employee development 
We place great importance on our Company-wide 
performance management process which aligns 
individual objectives with the Company’s strategy. 
There is regular consultation between managers and 
employees to help support career development and 
reinforce the link between business goals, an employee’s 
contribution and his/her remuneration. We have 
established a ‘Total Rewards Strategy’ scheme which 
includes ‘Career Ladders’ and ‘Career Aspiration’ tools 
on each employee’s online portal to help guide their 
career development decisions.
We believe in investing in our employee development 
and offer various training schemes which are aligned to 
enhance the relevant skills required in each respective 
field. Our corporate training focuses on culture and 
compliance and leadership development, whilst other 
types of training fall under the specific operational areas. 
Additionally, during 2014, we created an online Learning 
Management System, called KNOWLEDGEnetwork. 
The KNOWLEDGEnetwork is an online platform 
designed to deliver educational courses and track 
participants’ progress. It offers in excess of 100 different 
e-learning courses. We are a strong supporter of 
continuing education and with each option being a self-
study on demand course, employees have the freedom 
to choose what they want to study, when and wherever 
it is convenient to them.
Promoting the health and welfare of our employees is 
a priority for us in order to protect our people, boost 
morale and enhance productivity. During 2014, we ran a 
variety of wellness activities across our US sites including 
marathons, hikes, self-defence classes, ping pong 
tournament, basketball tournament and flu vaccinations 
and wellness fairs. Employees also raised money for the 
American Heart Association, American Breast Cancer 
Society, Alzheimer’s Association and the Movember 
charity through some of these activities.
The Chattanooga team who participated in the Alzheimer’s walk.
In June 2014, we were proud to hold our first annual Laird 
‘olympic’ games in Shanghai. The event included more 
than 580 employees and their families from four facilities 
in North/Central China. The games included table tennis, 
badminton, basketball and soccer and each facility was 
represented by one team. There were other team events 
where multiple teams from each site could participate. 
The event was viewed as a huge success and helped 
promote teamwork, collaboration and the One 
Laird spirit.
The Laird ‘olympic’ teams.
Building strong leadership
We see strong leadership and managerial capabilities 
as central to achieving our business objectives and 
sustained success in the technology sector. We want to 
cultivate a talented management team which possesses 
the right leadership culture for our Company and 
proactively look to identify ambitious employees with 
the correct skills as future leaders. 
We launched our leadership curriculum in 2014 by 
providing 40 hours of leadership development training 
to the top 250 leaders in the Group. The programme 
focused on self awareness, leading diversity, 
coaching others and driving a collaborative culture. 
This programme began with the Chief Executive and the 
top 60 leaders in the Group then cascaded throughout 
the organisation. An additional 350 managers will be 
trained in 2015. A follow-on programme is currently 
being designed focusing on talent management 
and will be cascaded to the same 250 leaders of the 
organisation in 2015.
Leadership meetings are also organised several times 
a year to help foster relationships across the business 
and ensure our leaders are aligned to our strategic 
ambitions and future goals, as explained in the Chairman’s 
statement and the business model. 
Creating a diverse workplace 
Creating an equal, fair and diverse workplace has always 
been a priority for Laird. 
For Laird diversity comprises differences in ethnicity, 
language, gender, age, religion, sexual orientation, 
physical ability, experience and education. We operate 
an Equal Opportunities and Human Rights policy and 
consider this to be our commitment to our employees 
feeling respected, valued and able to fulfil their potential. 
It is our policy to recruit the most capable person 
available for each position and applicants are selected 
solely on the basis of their qualifications and suitability 
for the role.
As detailed in the Nomination Committee section of 
the Corporate governance report, it is the Company’s 
aim to have the appropriate level of diversity to reflect 
the diverse nature of the Company’s operations. 
This includes gender diversity and the following outlines 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
27
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 the gender profile of the organisation. We believe that 
a balanced workforce will ultimately help us achieve our 
strategic goals. There is currently one female director on 
the Board of Directors as shown on pages 50 and 51.
All Company
53%
47%
Executive Team
14%
86%
Leadership Team
14%
86%
Management Team
17%
83%
  Female  Male
Retaining talent
Worldwide average headcount for our operations 
decreased from 9,279 in 2013 to 8,922 in 2014, largely 
due to automation and operational efficiencies.
Our worldwide annualised employee turnover rate in 
2014 has remained at 2013 levels of 14.8%. We continue 
to drive cultural initiatives in our manufacturing sites 
in China to counter the increase in competition locally. 
The continued automation in our factories is lessening 
our reliance on the number of manufacturing resources 
required. We continue to retain our knowledge 
workers with a less than 9.2% attrition rate globally. 
Our commitment to our engineering and technology 
teams through career advancement and investment 
in R&D allows us to provide an innovative work 
environment for our employees. 
Worldwide headcount
2014
2013
8,922
9,279
Communities
We believe that maintaining a good relationship between 
our business and the broader society in which we 
operate is fundamental to long-term business growth.
Charitable donations and community involvement
A budget is agreed each year by the Board of Laird 
PLC for charitable donations and community projects. 
The Chief Executive and Community Policy Officer work 
alongside others in the Company to agree the projects 
for the year.
During the year, we donated £26,925 (2013, £30,925) to 
charities worldwide, including our share of the schools 
assistance programme, which is explained in greater 
detail below.
David Lockwood visited Laird’s site in Reynosa, Mexico 
and handed over a cheque for $500 to Nucleo Solidario 
de Discapacitados Productivos, which is a charity which 
helps 310 people in Reynosa with various disabilities to 
be self-sufficient by making and selling cakes, sweets 
and crafts. Since 2010, we have invited this charity 
to our Reynosa site to sell their cakes and crafts to 
the employees.
David Lockwood presents a cheque for $500 to Nucleo Solidario de 
Discapacitados Productivos.
DEMAND
In 2014, we again helped fund a student placement at 
DEMAND: Design and Manufacture for Disability – a 
charity dedicated to solving the challenges of living 
and working that people with disability face every 
day. DEMAND’s student placement scheme aims to 
positively influence the design thinking of tomorrow. 
Working closely with their experienced designers and 
craftspeople, young designers are given invaluable, 
hands-on experience of solving real problems for real 
people and take with them a design philosophy which 
has inclusivity at its heart. 
Corporate social responsibility continued
28
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The specially designed Summerbug Trike.
One of the student projects in 2014 was The 
‘Summerbug Trike’ designed by Emily Tulloh. The  
British Design council have recognised Emily as ‘one 
to watch’ as they believe she represents the future of 
British design. Emily has been chosen from hundreds 
of entrants for her outstanding vision, ambition and 
potential to contribute to the UK’s reputation as 
a leading design nation. Emily is the first designer 
to appear in the category ‘happier & healthier’ see 
http://www.designcouncil.org.uk/ones-watch-winners 
for further information.
Supporting local communities 
Since 2012, we have worked with our suppliers to 
assist schools. In 2014, we, together with our suppliers, 
supported two schools in China and undertook three 
different initiatives but still with the theme of supporting 
children. The Tu Men Public Primary School and the Xin 
Chang Public Primary School in Nan Chong City, China 
were provided with new desks and chairs and table 
tennis tables.
In Malaysia, together with some of our suppliers, we 
chose the Shan Children’s Home in Penang. This home, 
which relies entirely on donations, provides residential 
care for 15 children between the ages of 5 and 19 years. 
The donations will help with the running costs of the 
home and transportation costs for the children to go 
to school.
Our Liberec site identified a local charity, Children’s 
Centre, Sluniko, which needed musical instruments and 
other equipment for its music therapy programme.
Finally, Laird and our suppliers donated $5,000 to 
YouthQuest, a comprehensive, free after-school 
programme run by the Flint & Genesee Chamber of 
Commerce in Michigan, USA. Twelve of our suppliers 
agreed to match our donation and a cheque for $10,300 
was handed over to YouthQuest in December 2014. 
This donation helped purchase the science, technology, 
engineering and maths (‘STEM’) curriculum for 
the students.
Steve Brown, Senior Vice President and General 
Manager of our Telematics business which is based 
near Flint, commented, “At Laird we know that a 
sound education will help the next generation of 
engineers develop the skills needed to change the 
world through innovation. We are proud to support the 
STEM curriculum.”
Also during 2014, our employees participated in a 
range of locally based activities, including volunteering, 
sponsored walks, gift programmes and cake sales. 
For example, employees at the Kunshan site volunteered 
to pick up rubbish at a nearby Forest Park. They picked 
up 50kg of rubbish.
The cheque for $10,300 being presented to YouthQuest.
Employees from the Kunshan site collecting rubbish.
The handover ceremony at Shan Children’s Home in Penang.
Petr Strof, Liberec Site General Manager, with children and staff at the 
Children’s Centre, Sluniko.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
29
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties
Laird faces the normal business risks including the retention and protection of our people 
and continuity of our operations, however, the following summarises the principal risks 
which are more distinct because of our market, industry and global footprint.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigating activities
Strategic and markets
Competition and 
market conditions
Laird operates in market sectors which are characterised 
by a high level of competition between suppliers and 
which are driven by rapid technological change. Changes 
in market dynamics could have a material adverse effect 
on Laird’s financial condition and prospects.
Laird’s competitive position may suffer were it unable to 
maintain customer mindshare in delivering technological 
innovation in a highly competitive environment. 
Laird’s products and solutions include technologies in 
which it holds intellectual property rights which may be 
subject to infringement, counterfeiting or misappropriation. 
Claims could be asserted against Laird that it has infringed 
intellectual property owned by others and such claims 
might require Laird to incur legal costs or face legal 
restrictions on selling certain products. 
The loss of a major contract or erosion of business with 
a key customer, whether through competitive action or 
any change in strategy or ordering requirements from 
customers, could have a material adverse effect on 
Laird’s financial condition and prospects.
Maturing products in large markets could lead to 
competitive erosion of margins and profits.
A highly competitive market environment and structure 
can drive pressures for imbalanced contractual terms which 
could lead to significant penalties and costs if breached.
• Protecting our position by maintaining 
and extending a broad customer base and 
monitoring the market to support a swift 
response to market changes
• Developing the business into new and 
attractive growth markets in line with 
strategic objectives
• Maintaining a competitive manufacturing base
• Differentiating Laird with customers through 
our focus on innovation, reliable fulfilment 
and speed to achieve customer mindshare, 
and where overall margin objectives can 
be maintained
• Contract review and negotiation through 
in-house legal team and external advisers
• Maintaining a robust intellectual property 
programme to reinforce defence against 
alleged breaches, proactively protect existing 
portfolio IP and growing development of 
products with a higher IP protected content
• Using a range of trade secrets, confidentiality 
policies, non-disclosure and other contractual 
arrangements to protect intellectual 
property rights
• Developing the skills, experience and 
performance of employees and their 
relationships with customers
• Introducing innovative new products in a 
timely manner to meet customer needs 
Macro economic 
and political factors
During an economic downturn or delayed recovery, 
customers may cancel, reduce or postpone anticipated 
orders, or apply pressure to prices and margins, any of which 
may result in lasting changes in terms of trade pricing 
policies, delivery capabilities and market expectations.
Wider political factors including regional tensions 
and protectionist pressures may impact on operations 
or markets.
• Monitoring of economic and 
political indicators
• Close control and reduction of costs
• Operational contingency plans
Acquisitions Laird has made and is likely to make further strategic 
acquisitions of complementary businesses, assets and 
companies with the intention of accelerating growth 
and strengthening and developing its market. If such 
acquisitions cannot be successfully integrated and the 
risks managed, Laird’s business, financial condition and the 
results of its operations may be adversely affected.
Laird may also set up operations in new technologies, 
markets and/or geographies which could fail to meet 
business case expectations leading to lost investment 
or reduced profits.
• Reliance on a comprehensive, embedded 
strategic planning process that validates 
target growth markets and technologies
• Adherence to a robust M & A/Integration 
process tailored to meet overall business and 
acquisition objectives
• Undertaking due diligence using specialist 
external partners
• Training and staff retention measures for 
qualified engineers or other technically 
qualified personnel and proactive relationship 
management with customers
• Obtaining warranties and indemnities from 
vendors where possible
Brand management While the ‘One Laird’ (cultural transition) programme is 
key to the delivery of strategic goals, it may also bring 
associated risk during the transition process from existing 
brands within Laird, or new acquisitions, which may have 
strong customer recognition. Planned revenue could be 
impacted if brand loyalty is not successfully transferred.
• Proactive customer communication and 
relationship management
• Robust and consistent marketing
• Brand strategy prioritisation within acquisition 
integration plans
30
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk description Potential impact Mitigating activities
Operations
China operational 
concentration
Laird faces continued pressure on Chinese labour costs, 
particularly with reference to base pay and increasing 
social costs. The result of these pressures may lead to 
reduced profits or other adverse effects on the business.
Laird may encounter difficulty in managing operations 
due to unfavourable political or economic factors or 
unexpected legal or regulatory changes. If the effects of 
this instability disrupt Laird’s operations in this region, 
Laird’s operating results may be adversely affected.
• Processes improvements to 
increase productivity
• Increased automation
• Developing options for relocation of certain 
manufacturing operations processes to 
Western China and other areas 
• Maintaining professional relationships 
with authorities 
Supply chain and 
raw materials
Laird’s ability to deliver according to market demands 
largely depends on obtaining timely and adequate supplies 
of components and raw materials. 
Failure in the supply chain could interrupt Laird’s product 
supply, limit sales and increase costs. 
The raw materials used include commodities such as 
copper, beryllium copper, steel, aluminium, silver and zinc 
– all of which may be subject to price volatility. This may 
impact Laird’s operating profits.
• Supplier quality control, vetting and review
• Developing multi-supplier options 
where possible
• Supply chain business contingency plans
• Processes for raw material stock management
• Relationship management with key suppliers
Product risks Laird’s reputation and brand value may be adversely 
affected due to real or alleged failures in its products 
and solutions.
• Product and operations quality 
control processes
• Contractual controls to limit liability 
where possible
• Proactive customer relationship management 
Operational 
continuity
One or more of Laird’s main factories or sites may 
suffer major disruption such as pandemic, fire, flooding, 
regulatory action, loss of IT systems following a cyber 
incident or similar which may have an adverse effect 
on Laird’s activities. Any of the above may prevent 
Laird from fully performing its contractual obligations, 
potentially resulting in reputational damage and lost 
revenue and profits.
• Risk management and recovery plans in 
place at site, business unit and corporate 
functional levels
• Use of expert partners to continuously 
improve site risk management controls 
IT security and back-up procedures
• Flexing production between sites
Executive 
leadership 
recruitment and 
retention 
Failure to recruit or retain critical talent in the Executive 
leadership could threaten the delivery of strategy or 
erode the confidence of key customers and stakeholders, 
negatively impacting revenue, profits and market 
valuations.
• Use of high calibre recruitment partners
• Talent management and succession planning
• Appropriate Executive reward and 
incentivisation programmes
Finance
Currency exposures Laird is subject to various financial and fiscal risks by virtue 
of its global operations and customer base.
• Matching local currency income with local 
currency costs
• Use of financial instruments to assist in 
the management of foreign exchange and 
interest rate risk, principally forward exchange 
contracts and interest rate swaps
Corporate responsibility
Regulatory 
compliance
In common with all global businesses we face complex 
and differing regulatory rules in all areas of our operations 
and markets, including ethical, environmental, health and 
safety, trade compliance, employment and tax regulations. 
A serious breach by Laird could have an adverse effect 
upon Laird’s business and the results of its operations may 
be adversely affected.
• Robust Corporate Governance framework 
and leadership
• Implementation of regulatory and trade 
compliance policies and procedures
• Compliance training to provide oversight and 
assurance on compliance risks
• Professional compliance expertise within 
corporate functions compliance to oversee 
key compliance risks
• Compliance monitoring and 
testing programmes
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
31
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Performance Materials
We are a leading supplier to global manufacturers 
of smartphones, IT and telecommunications
1
2
3
1
2
3
4
5
6
1. EMI 70%
2. Thermal 22%
3. Signal Integrity 8%
1. IT/Telecom 31%
2. Smartphone 28%
3. Other Industrial 21%
4. Consumer 9%
5. Transportation 6%
6. Medical 5%
Revenue by product segment
Revenue by market segment
Revenue
$604.0m
+12.6%
(2013, $536.2m)
£366.1m
2
+6.8%
(2013, £342.8m)
2
Underlying operating profit
1
$89.2m
+10.8%
(2013, $80.5m)
£54.1m
2
+5.0%
(2013, £51.5m)
2
Operating margin
14.8%
(2013, 15.0%)
32
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Performance Materials division is a leading 
global designer and supplier of an extensive range of 
electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding materials 
and thermal management solutions, supplying the 
leading industry manufacturers. These products isolate 
and protect sensitive electronics from electronic 
emission interference, allowing them to function and 
connect effectively, as well as improving electronic 
performance through efficient management of heat. 
Performance Materials captures value by gaining 
increased customer mindshare through innovation, 
reliable fulfilment and speed. Our focus is on identifying 
new applications of our product solutions and 
expanding our engagement with customers in IT/
telecoms, smartphones, consumer electronics, medical 
and transportation. 
The ever-increasing demand for more portable 
and more powerful electronics and the exponential 
growth in connected devices creates numerous 
challenges for our customers who rely on our 
expertise to create innovative solutions tailored to 
their needs. Our customers include global industry 
leaders in our target market segments, including 
smartphones, consumer electronics, automotive and 
industrial applications.
Over the year, organic revenue
4
 for Performance 
Materials in US$ increased 8.7% to $604.0m 
(2013, $536.2m). Operating profit grew by 10.8% to 
$89.2m (2013, $80.5m), and operating margin was 14.8% 
(2013, 15.0%) reflecting the change in product mix. 
Total revenue grew by 12.6%, including the contribution 
from Model Solution, a South Korean company 
specialising in prototype design, in which we acquired 
51% in April. 
In Sterling
2
, total revenue grew by 6.8% to £366.1m 
(2013, £342.8m), reflecting the strength of Sterling 
relative to the US$ which affected translation. 
Operating profit
3
 grew by 5.0% to £54.1m (2013, £51.5m). 
Revenue growth was driven by strong performances 
in smartphones and mobile LTE/4G infrastructure. 
Automotive applications continue to contribute to 
growth. Gaming consoles were weaker after a very 
strong performance in the previous year. Tablet revenues 
were lower due to reduced share and content, as well as 
the loss of a supply contract by one of our customers. 
In April 2014, we acquired 51% of Model Solution, 
which performed well and provided entry into new 
market segments. Over the year, we opened a new 
factory in Vietnam and a design centre in Seoul to 
provide additional capacity and design expertise 
to a customer which resulted in a number of new 
projects and increasing market share with a leading 
smartphone customer.
We launched 24 new products and applications in 
2014, which resulted in numerous design wins, including 
in the emerging area of wireless charging and NFC 
applications in the automotive and medical segments. 
Our products also gave us entry into new markets 
such as safety sensors. We continue to enhance our 
intellectual property portfolio with an increase in patents 
issued in 2014.
We were awarded Preferred Supplier Status for a leading 
customer in smartphones and continue to be recognised 
by governments and industry trade groups around the 
world for leading activities in innovation and corporate 
social responsibilities. Boeing awarded us the Silver 
Performance Excellence Award (BPEA) and in China we 
were awarded the ‘Efficient and Intensive Award’ by the 
large Shanghai Xinzhuang industry Park.
1
 Underlying profit before tax and earnings per share are stated before 
exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and 
US capitalised development costs, gain/ loss on disposal of businesses, 
impact arising from fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition 
transaction costs.
2
 Translated at $1.65/£ which is the average exchange rate over the year 
(2013, $1.56/£).
3
 Operating profit is stated before exceptional items, amortisation of 
acquired intangible assets, gain or loss on disposal of businesses and 
acquisition transaction costs.
4
  Organic revenue growth is defined as the increase or decrease in revenue, 
year-on-year, with the base revenue for the prior year including revenue 
from current year acquisitions as if Laird had owned the acquisitions for 
the same period in the prior year.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
33
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Protecting critical 
components
How we combined customer service, innovation and reliable 
fulfilment to drive out counterfeit thermal interface materials and 
helped our customers re-establish the integrity of their supply chain
 
In Asia, we discovered that small, 
local, start-up manufacturers 
were producing imitation thermal 
materials and distributing them 
as Laird products. Along complex 
supply chains, buyers were 
seizing the opportunity to make 
small cost savings. The problem 
went unnoticed until a large 
telecommunications OEM began 
to suffer system failures. Not only 
did this customer face significant 
performance penalties and costs 
to replace the components, it 
also faced concerns over safety, 
potential loss of market share and 
reputational damage.
Using our Materials Scientists, 
we established that the failing 
products had not been made 
by Laird, immediately notified 
our customers, and launched 
an investigation into the source 
of the counterfeit materials. 
We prepared replacements 
and quickly made them 
available so that our customers’ 
operations were not interrupted. 
At our expense, we deployed our 
engineers to work alongside our 
customer to assess the impact 
and to design an effective repair. 
Looking to the future, we then 
developed additive technology 
for our thermal products that can 
quickly identify genuine material 
samples and products from Laird. 
Customers now have the ability to 
gain more control over quality and 
can maintain the integrity of their 
supply chain.
By acting quickly, we ensured 
that our customer did not need 
to issue an equipment recall or 
incur product liability claims. 
We built trust and generated 
customer loyalty. This customer 
understood how working with 
Laird on a small component has 
value well beyond the price of 
the material. They have switched 
their entire product allocation in 
these applications to Laird and 
can be sure that their business and 
reputation is better protected.
34
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
35
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic 
expansion
We work in conjunction with our customers to help them 
develop market leading products with consistent quality, 
innovation and speed that few of our competitors can match
 
Our customers’ products are so 
complex that they require the 
latest innovations in engineering 
and manufacturing. Competition  
in the consumer device market is 
so intense that they need the most 
advanced technology to keep 
them ahead of the market and 
meet the increasing expectations 
of their consumers.
In 2014, we opened a new facility in 
Vietnam to better serve the needs 
of these customers. This state-
of-the-art facility manufactures 
precision metals and electronic 
materials for smartphone and 
tablet manufacturers. With our 
advanced material engineering 
and machinery at this site our 
customers are able to incorporate 
the latest technology into their 
designs and get their products 
to market faster. Alongside our 
design centre, located in Korea, 
we are able to work closely 
with our customers in the initial 
development and manufacturing 
stages and provide the sort of 
innovation they need to push their 
designs further.
The opening of this facility 
demonstrates our customer 
strategy in action; it consistently 
delivers high quality products 
on time, to the highest precision 
engineering standards, regardless 
of production demands and as 
a result has won us business from 
a major new customer. 
It took just six months from 
signing the lease for this factory to 
become fully operational and meet 
the peaks of production demand 
without risk to our customers’ 
operations. This is a capability that 
few of our competitors can match 
and it underpins our well-deserved 
reputation for both speed and 
reliable fulfilment.
Furthermore, the location of 
this facility allows us to continue 
diversifying our customer base and 
broadening our geographic market 
presence, supporting Laird’s 
growth from 2014 onwards.
36
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
37
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Wireless Systems
We are the preferred supplier to most of the 
leading global OEM car manufacturers
Revenue by product segment
Revenue by market segment
1
2
3
1
2
3
4
1 .  T el e m a t i c s /M 2 M 61%
2 .  W i re l e s s A u t o m a t i o n 
and Control 
21%
3 .  In f r a s t ruc t u r e 
Antenna
18%
1. Transport 61%
2. IT/Telecom 20%
3. Industrial 15%
4. Other 4%
Revenue
$328.0m
+8.0%
(2013, $303.6m)
£198.8m
2
+2.4%
(2013, £194.2m)
2
Underlying operating profit
1
$40.5m
+14.1%
(2013, $35.5m)
£24.5m
2
+7.9%
(2013, £22.7m)
2
Operating margin
12.3%
(2013, 11.7%)
38
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Wireless Systems business is a market leader in 
wireless connectivity, telematics and control systems and 
software. It is an established global leader in automotive 
telematics, where it supplies many of the global original 
equipment auto manufacturers. Wireless Systems also 
supplies connectivity, control and software management 
platforms to over 5,000 major railways worldwide. 
Over the year, organic revenue
3
 for Wireless Systems 
increased by 8.0% to $328.0m (2013, $303.6m). 
Operating profit
4
 grew by 14.1% to $40.5m 
(2013, $35.5m). Operating margin improved to 12.3% 
(2013, 11.7%). 
In Sterling
2
, total revenue grew by 2.4% to £198.8m 
(2013, £194.2m), reflecting the strength of Sterling 
relative to the US$ which affected translation. 
Operating profit
4
 grew by 7.9% to £24.5m 
(2013, £22.7m). 
Revenue grew across all Wireless System businesses, 
and, in particular, was driven by a strong performance 
in the automotive segment in telematics/M2M. 
Our telematics/M2M also invested in an expanded 
facility in Shanghai to meet its growing order book going 
forward. The opening of our Brazil facility, scheduled for 
Q2 2015, will enhance our ability to service telematics 
customers in South America.
Our M2M applications for medical and Wi-Fi have 
generated a strong pipeline of projects, and the recently 
refreshed Bluetooth product range continued to sell 
well. We devised a comprehensive Bluetooth solution for 
a global automotive original equipment manufacturer. 
Telematics/M2M won a number of prestigious customer 
awards for partnership and reliable fulfilment, including 
the Corporate Social Responsibility Award from Ford 
Motor Company, APAC Supplier of the Year for Logistics 
from Fiat Chrysler Automobiles and the Platinum Level 
Supplier Quality Excellence Certification from Caterpillar.
Tasverii™ Insight for Rail, our WACS software control 
platform, was well received by customers, and won a 
new European rail contract which will go into production 
in 2015. This brings the global number of connected 
industrial and rail devices to over 5,000. Over the 
year, our WACS business moved to an expanded and 
improved factory in Warren, Ohio. 
In our infrastructure antenna business, the WLAN 
market continued to demonstrate strength, with growth 
being driven by high-density applications such as stadia. 
The public safety sector continued to be slow, despite 
our good performance against the competition.
Collaboration between engineering teams across 
our Wireless Systems businesses, together with our 
thermal business, resulted in the successful Range 
Amplified MultiPoint (RAMP) Bridge project this year. 
RAMP Bridge is a rugged, outdoor, long-range wireless 
bridge solution for hospitality, digital signage and other 
markets, which we won through our product’s superior 
throughput and range and our ability to support them 
as a long-time partner.
1
 Underlying profit before tax and earnings per share are stated before 
exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill 
and US capitalised development costs, gain/ loss on disposal of 
businesses, impact arising from fair valuing of financial instruments and 
acquisition transaction costs.
2
 Translated at $1.65/£ which is the average exchange rate over the year 
(2013, $1.56/£).
3
  Organic revenue growth is defined as the increase or decrease in revenue, 
year-on-year, with the base revenue for the prior year including revenue.
4
 Operating profit is stated before exceptional items, amortisation of 
acquired intangible assets, gain or loss on disposal of businesses and 
acquisition transaction costs.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
39
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Connecting the 
medical world
We are making the connected hospital a reality 
allowing patients to stay connected whether 
at home or at hospital
 
Healthcare systems around the world 
are feeling the pressure of growing 
public health issues and as costs 
continue to climb there is a need for 
increased efficiencies. Robust wireless 
connections and big data analytics 
play a key role in diagnosing and 
monitoring patients and can bring 
the efficiencies, scalability and cost 
reductions needed.
Our embedded Bluetooth Low 
Energy modules and Wi-Fi enabled 
devices are already used widely 
in our other markets so working 
alongside our customers in the 
medical market we set out to apply 
this same technology to hospitals. 
Developing a fully integrated hospital 
which gathers information from 
thousands of medical devices created 
many challenges. We had to create 
Bluetooth and Wi-Fi modules which 
would work in the hospital’s harsh 
RF environment and interoperate 
with multiple infrastructure systems. 
We also had to ensure the sensitive 
data being transferred was secure.
We were able to develop a Wireless 
Bridge Communications Subsystem 
and engineer the modules to create a 
robust connection in the challenging 
RF environment. It is designed to 
offer the highest levels of security 
and encryption for Wi-Fi. This allows 
for secure, wireless roaming in 
any hospital network and on any 
medical device, creating a connected 
hospital that can gather vast amounts 
of life-critical data from dozens of 
locations to one centralised point.
This technology cuts down the time 
taken to enter vitals from 10 minutes 
to less than one minute per patient 
by automatically transferring patient 
records and real-time data to the 
Electronic Health Records. It means 
nurses can roam throughout the 
hospital and monitor patients on 
the move or from one main station, 
receiving alerts and observing data 
captured each second. This increases 
their productivity and minimises 
transcription errors. In turn, doctors 
can make more informed decisions 
with accurate and up-to-date 
patient information, leading to better 
patient outcomes.
A fully Wi-Fi integrated hospital does 
not only liberate doctors and nurses 
but will allow people to take more 
responsibility for managing their own 
health by monitoring their health from 
home and subsequently cutting down 
the number of patient readmissions. 
Our innovations in wireless technology 
are creating dynamic customer 
solutions that anticipate market 
changes and provide our customers 
with the competitive advantages they 
need to stay ahead. We are applying 
our proven expertise in existing 
markets to new challenges in order to 
penetrate new markets and drive our 
long-term success.
40
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
41
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 42
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Unlocking the 
power of data
We have unlocked the power of data in the rail industry 
by enabling rail operators to take a bird’s eye view of 
their rail yards resulting in significant cost savings
 
A railway operator has a vast 
number of cars and locomotives 
that it needs to move around 
the country. If it can track those 
assets in real time, it can be 
more proactive and deliver huge 
improvements in productivity.
Working with our customers in 
the rail industry, including Norfolk 
Southern, one of North America’s 
largest rail operators, we faced 
a number of challenges. We had 
to develop a software platform 
that could monitor areas covering 
over eight miles incorporating 
315 miles of track. The solution had 
to be completely reliable. In the 
rail industry, health and safety is 
paramount and there is no room 
for error.
Our engineers developed a 
new software platform called 
Tasverii and combined it with 
our robust wireless technologies. 
Using uninterrupted wireless 
connectivity, Tasverii is 
able to collect and store data 
in near real-time, enabling the 
rail yard to identify potential 
productivity problems and safety 
risks quickly. User-generated 
reports allow operators to get 
a much better insight into the 
location, performance and health 
of their assets. This enables 
faster trouble shooting, more 
proactive maintenance and 
increased visibility over the 
safety of operating practices to 
drive productivity, cost savings, 
safety improvements and 
overall efficiency. 
This solution is consistent with 
our strategy to grow in existing 
businesses and adjacent markets. 
It creates an end-to-end solution 
that can connect, monitor, 
access and drive critical actions 
across numerous applications. 
This platform was initially 
developed for the railways but 
it was designed with enough 
versatility in mind to be adapted to 
other applications from factories 
to hospitals where users need 
to monitor their wireless devices 
quickly and efficiently.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
43
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chief Financial Officer’s report
Segments 
In 2014, Laird had two segments; Performance Materials and Wireless Systems. 
Revenue 
In Sterling, revenue increased by 5% from £537m in 2013 to £564.9m in 2014. However, with over 70% of our revenue 
in US$ and given that, on average, the US$ was weaker year-on-year, the underlying performance of the business 
was in fact much stronger. US$ is a better measure of the business’s performance and in US$ the revenue increase 
was 11%. In US$, Performance Materials revenues were 13% higher and Wireless Systems revenues were up 8%. 
The table below shows revenue for each segment in US$ together with the incremental revenue contribution from 
acquisitions made part way through 2014. 
Revenue
Performance Materials
$m 
Wireless Systems
$m
Total 
$m
2013 536.2 303.6 839.8
2014 net of acquisitions 575.0 328.0 903.0
Acquisition 29.0 – 29.0
Total for 2014 604.0 328.0 932.0
Revenue on an organic basis was up 8% and is defined as the increase or decrease in revenue, year-on-year, with 
the base revenue for the prior year including revenue from the newly acquired Model Solution as if Laird had owned 
Model Solution for the same period in the prior year. 
Segmental revenue is also disclosed in note 3. 
Revenue from the largest customer, including revenue invoiced indirectly through its suppliers, amounted to 18% of 
revenue (2013, 18%). The top five customers accounted for 35% of revenue (including revenue invoiced indirectly 
through their suppliers) in 2014 (2014: 34%). 
Underlying operating profit/operating margin 
The table that follows shows underlying operating profit
1
 for the business segments in US$ for 2014 and the 
comparative data for 2013. The net operating margin was 12.6% (2013, 12.5%).
Jonathan Silver 
Chief Financial Officer
Profitable growth underpins 
our robust financial position 
with good cash conversion  
and the financial resources  
to pursue our strategic objectives.
44
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Revenue
Performance Materials
$m 
Wireless Systems
$m
Unallocated
$m
Total 
$m
2013
Operating profit 80.5 35.5 (11.0) 105.0
Operating margin 15.0% 11.7% (1.3%) 12.5%
2014
Operating profit 89.2 40.5 (12.3) 117.4
Operating margin 14.8% 12.3% (1.3%) 12.6%
Operating margin for Performance Materials was slightly lower at 14.8% in 2014 (2013, 15.0%) largely due to changes 
in product mix with strong growth in revenue for smartphones and a reduction in revenue for gaming following the 
product launches in 2013. For Wireless Systems, operating margin was up year-on-year to 12.3% (2013, 11.7%). 
The table below provides further analysis in US$ of the underlying operating profit. The gross profit percentage of 
40.3% is 0.5% lower than in 2013, largely due to changes in product mix in Performance Materials. 
Performance Materials and Wireless Systems
2014 
$m
2013 
$m
Revenue 932.0 839.8
Cost of sales (556.7) (496.9)
Gross profit 375.3 342.9
Gross margin % 40.3% 40.8%
SG&A (189.3) (176.0)
Gross R&D (81.9) (74.4)
Net capitalised development 13.3 12.5
Operating profit 117.4 105.0
R&D expenditure has increased by 10% to $81.9m. Much of the increase in R&D is in Wireless Systems which typically 
has design cycles beyond one year and longer product lives than Performance Materials. A proportion of this 
investment has been capitalised and typically will be amortised over a three to four year period and matched against 
the revenue benefit. 
Model Solution was acquired in 2014. $0.2m of the R&D increase and $3.6m of the indirect overhead increase is due 
to the inclusion of a part year of this acquisition. 
Underlying operating profit increased by 12% in 2014. The bar chart below is a high level profit bridge of the change 
in underlying operating profit change from 2013 to 2014. The impact of the Model Solution acquisition has been 
broken out in order to provide a better understanding of the changes in the base business.
 Underlying† Operating Profit bridge US$m
Investment
in net R&D
Investment in 
SG&A
Acquisition
Margin 
drop through
††
$105.0m
24.9 6.5
9.7
3.7
2013
2014
$117.4m
†  Before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles, gain or loss on disposal of businesses, fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition 
transaction costs.
††  Margin drop through on increase in organic revenue and margin % year on year.
1
  Underlying operating profit is stated before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets, 
goodwill and US capitalised development costs, gain or loss on disposal of business and acquisition transaction costs.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
45
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The increase in gross margin of $24.9m arises from 
the volume benefit from the organic revenue increase 
offset in part by a reduction in average gross margins 
largely due to changes in product mix. The margin 
increase has been partly offset by the $6.5m increased 
investment in net R&D (gross R&D less net capitalised 
development) and the $9.7m increase in indirect 
overheads. The acquisition of Model Solution contributed 
$3.7m to the result. 
Statutory profit 
Profit before tax from continuing operations was £48.1m 
(2013, £43.2m). Statutory profit after tax increased by 
63% to £50.2m in 2014 from £30.8m in 2013. £14.7m 
of the improvement comes from moving from a tax 
charge of £12.6m in 2013 to a tax credit of £2.1m in 2014. 
2014 includes an exceptional deferred tax credit of 
£20.1m as a result of the recognition of US tax losses. 
Underlying profit and taxation
Underlying profit before tax in the year was £63.2m 
(2013, £60.1m). Underlying profit is defined as profit 
before tax, exceptional items, amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets, goodwill and US capitalised 
development costs, the gain or loss on sale of 
businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of 
financial instruments, and acquisition transaction costs, 
as set out in note 14. 
The underlying tax charge on total underlying profit 
before tax is equivalent to an average tax rate of 
18.4% (2013, 17.5%). Profits in the USA continue to be 
sheltered by amortised goodwill deductions resulting 
from acquisitions and profits in the Czech Republic are 
sheltered by incentives. Laird’s tax payable largely arises 
in China and Germany. During the year, certainty was 
achieved over the future availability of tax losses in the 
US. This exceptional US loss recognition has resulted in 
a deferred tax credit of £20.1m. An analysis of the total 
tax charge is given in note 11.
Exceptional items
There was a net exceptional credit of £0.7m in the year. 
There was an exceptional credit of £5.4m in respect of 
the Nextreme development project largely arising from 
a reassessment of the potential earnout. This was offset 
in part by a £3.6m provision for patents litigation costs 
and also offset in part by acquisition transaction costs. 
Finance costs 
Finance costs, excluding a loss on the fair valuing of 
financial instruments of £2.5m (2013, £1.3m profit) were 
£8.0m, compared to £7.1m in 2013. 
Underlying earnings 
Continuing underlying basic earnings per share were 
19.1p (2013, 18.6p). Underlying earnings are based 
on underlying profit less underlying tax and exclude 
deferred tax on acquired intangible assets, goodwill 
and US capitalised development costs. The average 
number of shares in issue throughout 2014 was 266.9m 
(2013, 266.0m).
Chief Financial Officer’s report continued
46
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Cash flow 
The table below provides a further analysis of cash flow to complement the notes to the financial statements. 
Analysis of cash flow
2014
£m
2014
£m
2013 
£m
Vietnam
investment
1
Base
business
 Continuing 
operations
Operating profit – 71.2 67.2
Depreciation – 16.1 14.9
Amortisation of capitalised development costs – 4.8 3.6
Share based payments – 1.8 1.4
– 93.9 87.1
Increase in working capital – (9.8) (19.0)
Capitalised development costs – (12.9) (11.6)
Capital expenditure less disposals (4.0) (18.5) (12.8)
Operating cash flow (4.0) 52.7 43.7
Total operating cash flow 48.7 43.7
Finance costs (net) (7.6) (7.1)
Taxation (13.0) (13.0)
Trading cash flow surplus 28.1 23.6
Dividends (32.6) (28.6)
Trading cash flow after dividends (4.5) (5.0)
Acquisitions/disposals (27.0) 2.6
Exceptional costs (9.1) (3.2)
Share issues 0.5 0.3
Purchase of treasury shares (1.1) –
Movement in current financial assets (1.7) –
Exchange translation movement (7.1) 2.6
Increase in net borrowings (50.0) (2.7)
Cash conversion (operating cash flow as a proportion of operating profit) for continuing operations in 2014 was 74% 
(excluding a £4m investment in the new business in Vietnam and in the South Korean design centre) compared to 
65% in 2013. 
Including the investment in a new production facility in Vietnam, capital expenditure increased by 76% in 2014. 
Other major projects completed during the year included the transfer of Telematics/M2M Shanghai plant to a 
new and expanded facility to be able to meet its order commitments going forward and the transfer of the WACS 
operation in North America to a new and expanded facility. 
During the year, £26.7m was incurred on acquisitions, including £6.2m of net debt acquired. Much of the exceptional 
cost cash outflow was in respect for costs committed and provided for in 2013 but incurred in 2014.
1
  Includes South Korean design centre investment
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
47
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Treasury policies 
Laird has a centralised Treasury function, the objectives 
of which are to monitor and manage the financial risks 
of the Group and to ensure that sufficient liquidity is 
available to meet the requirements of the business. 
Group Treasury is not intended to be a profit centre and 
operates within a framework of policies and procedures. 
Laird’s Treasury uses derivative financial instruments 
to assist in the management of foreign exchange and 
interest rate risk, principally forward foreign exchange 
contracts and interest rate swaps. All hedging is carried 
out centrally and speculative trading is specifically 
prohibited by Group Treasury policy. 
Interest rate risk 
Laird is exposed to interest rate risk as it holds 
borrowings on both a fixed and floating basis. Our policy 
for this risk is to optimise the mix of fixed and floating 
rate borrowings using interest rate swaps and forward 
rate agreements to manage Laird’s finance costs. 
Credit and counterparty risk 
Our policy on counterparty risk management is to place 
cash deposits and other financial instruments with 
its relationship banks, all of which also provide credit 
facilities to Laird. The level of exposure to each bank is 
continually monitored. As at 31 December 2014, all cash 
and short-term deposits had a maturity of less than 
three months. 
Foreign exchange management 
We aim to minimise our exposures to US$ transactional 
currency exposures by matching local currency income 
with local currency costs. Laird aims to forward cover 
at least 75% of the unmatched cash flows on a quarterly 
basis. Foreign currency borrowings are used partially to 
hedge the currencies of the Group’s principal assets and 
cash flows. Where foreign currency borrowings are in 
the same currency as investment in overseas assets they 
are treated as a hedge of the net investment.
Net borrowings and debt facilities 
Net borrowings were £159.5m (2013, £109.5m). 
A cornerstone of our financial planning is to ensure that 
it maintains committed loan finance which provides 
sufficient headroom above expected borrowing 
requirements and has a significant proportion with 
terms that exceed one year. In 2014, we extended and 
increased our committed bilateral revolving credit 
facilities to £250m. These will not expire until 2019. 
In addition, we have $43m (£28m) of US Dollar Private 
Placement loan notes outstanding, which have remaining 
terms of two years and which were issued in 2004. 
In 2014, we entered into a further Private Placement note 
agreement comprising $13m of six year notes and $92m 
and €15m of seven year notes. 
Chief Financial Officer’s report continued
48
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Covenants 
A key consideration for financial planning is to maintain 
sufficient headroom between borrowings and the 
ceiling set by the covenants. Our bank facilities and 
US Private Placement loan notes contain two principal 
financial covenants; net debt/EBITDA (earnings before 
exceptional items, interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation), and interest cover. For the year ended 
31 December 2014, net borrowings were 1.6 times 
EBITDA, 46% of the maximum permitted of 3.5 times. 
Interest cover was 9.7 times against the minimum 
requirement of 3.0 times. Thus, there was considerable 
financial headroom. The expected headroom is routinely 
estimated against the covenants and the sensitivity to 
a number of alternative scenarios is tested to ensure 
ongoing compliance. The Group does not anticipate 
approaching its covenant limits in the foreseeable future. 
Currencies in 2014 
Local currency exposures are balanced where possible 
but the Group operates a global business and this 
creates currency imbalances where operating and 
procurement costs may not be able to be matched with 
revenues in local currencies. 
In 2014, over 70% of revenues were negotiated in US$. 
With under 50% of the cost base in US$, there was a 
large US$ surplus. Over 10% of revenues were negotiated 
in both Renminbi and in Euros. In most currencies (other 
than US$ and Euro), costs exceed revenues, the most 
significant being the Renminbi (RMB) which accounts for 
over 30% of our cost base. This imbalance can lead to 
an adverse impact, in so far as the strengthening of the 
RMB may not be fully recovered in US$ selling prices.
In addition, there is a translation impact in converting 
profits into the Group’s reporting currency (Sterling); 
each US$0.01 appreciation against Sterling approximates 
to an annual increase in operating profit of £0.45m. 
In 2014, on average through the year the US$ was 
weaker against Sterling than in 2013 and this reduced 
profits on translation by £4m. The majority of the 
Group’s assets are held overseas and these are hedged 
in part by foreign currency loans. 
Pensions 
There are approximately 250 employees who are active 
members of defined benefit plans and approximately 
1,400 deferred and current pensioners. There is an 
overall defined benefit pension scheme deficit under 
IAS 19 (Revised 2011) of £1.7m at 31 December 2014, 
which is more than accounted for by the unfunded 
schemes of £6.9m as the funded schemes are in surplus. 
At 31 December 2013, there was an overall deficit of 
£3.7m. The principal driver of the year-on-year reduction 
in the deficit was an increase in the asset values which 
was offset in part by a decrease in the discount rate used 
at December 2014, from 4.4% in 2013 to 3.6%. 
Shareholders’ funds 
Equity attributable to owners of the parent company 
at the 2014 year end were £441.4m (2013, £436.1m). 
The reconciliation is set out in the Group statement 
of changes in equity. 
Return on capital employed
Return on capital employed (underlying profit before 
interest and tax as a proportion of average shareholders’ 
funds plus net borrowings during the year) was 12.7% in 
2014 compared to 12.0% in 2013.
By order of the Board
David Lockwood, OBE  Jonathan Silver 
Chief Executive  Chief Financial Officer
2 March 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
49
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dr Martin Read, CBE  
Chairman, MA, DPhil, FIET
Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director with effect from 28 February 
2014, Martin succeeded Nigel Keen as Chairman in May 2014. Martin is Chairman 
of the two Government companies (the Low Carbon Contracts Company and the 
Electricity Settlements Company) set up to manage contracts and payments under 
the electricity market reform programme. He is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and a non-executive director of Lloyds of London and the UK 
Government Efficiency and Reform Board. Martin was Chief Executive of international 
IT services company, Logica, from 1993 to 2007 and has served as a non-executive 
director on the boards of Invensys, Aegis Group, British Airways, Siemens Holdings, 
Boots and Asda. He led UK Government reviews on back office operations and IT 
across the public sector (2009) and management information (2012).
David Lockwood, OBE  
Chief Executive, BA, FCA, RSA
David Lockwood joined Laird on 2 July 2012 and was appointed Chief Executive 
with effect from 13 August 2012. David was formerly Vice President Global 
Defence & Security at BT Global Services and he has experience of international 
operations, gained from his roles at GPT (Marconi), BAE Systems, Intense Limited 
(a photonics high-tech start-up) and Thales Corporation. David chaired the 
Scottish Government’s Technology Advisory Group and, in 2005, was awarded 
Scottish Entrepreneur of the Year for Technology. In February 2014, David was 
appointed as non-executive Chair of Knowledge Transfer Network Ltd, a vehicle 
which was established in April 2014, to support the work of Innovate UK (formerly 
the Technology Strategy Board) – the UK’s innovation agency which is sponsored 
by the UK Government’s Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS).
Jonathan Silver  
Chief Financial Officer, BA, CA
Jonathan Silver joined Laird in 1986 and was appointed to the Board as Finance 
Director in 1994. Jonathan was previously Group Treasurer and Corporate 
Development Manager. He is a non-executive director of INVESCO Income 
Growth Trust plc. As previously announced, Jonathan Silver will be stepping down 
as a director at the conclusion of the AGM to be held on 8 May 2015.
Paula Bell  
Senior Independent Director, FCMA, CGMA
Paula was appointed a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee in 2012 and has been Senior Independent Director since 31 August 
2013. During the year, Paula was also a member of the Remuneration Committee 
and the Nomination Committee. Paula is the Group Finance Director of John 
Menzies Plc and prior to this was Group Finance Director of Ricardo Plc. Paula has 
extensive commercial and finance experience working in senior roles of large 
international organisations, built on a 10-year period at Rolls-Royce Plc. Paula is a 
Fellow of the Institute of Management Accountants.
Board of Directors
Currently the Board is comprised of the Chairman, two executive directors 
and four other non-executive directors, all of whom have the skills 
and experience appropriate for Laird’s business. 
Mike Parker has been appointed to the Board with effect from 3 March 2015.
50
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Jack Boyer  
Non-executive director, BA, MSc, MBA
Jack was appointed as a non-executive director in May 2013 and is Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee. He is 
a non-executive director of Mitie Group plc, where he chairs the Remuneration 
Committee and is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees. Jack is 
Chairman of Ilika plc and on the board of the Innovate UK Energy Catalyst. He sits 
on the board of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council and is 
co-deputy chairman of the Advanced Materials Leadership Council. He previously 
held roles as CEO of Automotive Engineering Group TCG and at Goldman Sachs 
and strategy consultant Bain & Co.
Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG  
Non-executive director, MA
Appointed in 2006, Sir Christopher is a member of the Remuneration, Audit 
and Nomination Committees. Sir Christopher retired as Master of Gonville and 
Caius College, Cambridge in 2012. Sir Christopher was British Ambassador to the 
People’s Republic of China, having previously served as HM Ambassador Warsaw 
and Deputy Under-Secretary for North Asia and the Pacific, and earlier as Head of 
the Hong Kong Department of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
Professor Michael Kelly  
Non-executive director, BSc, MSc, PhD, ScD, FRS FREng
Appointed in 2006, Professor Kelly is a member of the Remuneration and 
Audit Committees. Professor Kelly is Prince Philip Professor of Technology at 
the University of Cambridge and a Professorial Fellow at Trinity Hall. He was 
formerly Chief Scientific Advisor to the Department for Communities and Local 
Government and was previously executive director of the Cambridge-MIT Institute 
and Professor of Physics and Electronics at the University of Surrey.
Mike Parker, CBE 
Non-executive director, BSc, MBA, FEI, FIChemE 
Mike Parker was appointed a non-executive director with effect from 3 March 
2015 and will succeed Paula Bell as Senior Independent Director (SID). He will also 
be a member of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees. Mike’s 
main executive career was in the Dow Chemical Company between 1968 to 2002 
where he worked internationally, particularly in North America and Asia, rising to 
become Chief Executive Officer. He was Chief Executive Officer of British Nuclear 
Fuels from 2003 to 2009 and he served as the SID on the Board of Invensys Plc 
from 2006 to 2013. Mike is currently SID of publicly quoted company PV Crystalox 
Plc and a non-executive director of SNC-Lavalin Inc, a publicly quoted Canadian 
company. In November 2014, Mike was awarded the recognition of Citizen of 
Honour for the City of Liverpool.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
51
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance report
The Corporate governance report is designed to provide 
shareholders with an explanation of how the Company 
has applied the main principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) as relevant to the 
Company in 2014.
Statement of Compliance
The directors considered that during the year ended 
31 December 2014, the Company was in compliance with 
the provisions set out in the Code. 
The Code is available from the Financial Reporting 
Council’s website at https://www.frc.org.uk/corporate/
ukcgcode.cfm.
The Role of the Board
The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are 
the owners of the Company. The Board’s principal 
responsibility is to act in the best interests of the 
shareholders, as required by the Companies Act 2006. 
The Board establishes the aims and objectives for the 
Company, sets the strategic direction and plans, and 
the operating budgets which are proposed by the Chief 
Executive, and monitors performance against them.
The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating 
and monitoring the key risks faced by the Company, 
for exercising proper and appropriate corporate 
governance, for establishing and ensuring the 
effectiveness of the systems of internal control and 
for reviewing management performance. Through the 
Chief Executive, the Board has regard to the necessary 
financial and human resources required to meet the 
Company’s objectives. 
There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved 
for Board approval.
The Board also delegates certain other responsibilities to 
the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Administration 
Committees (the Committees). The written Terms 
of Reference of the Committees are available on 
the Company’s website at www.laird-plc.com, from 
the Company on request and will be on display at 
the Annual General Meeting. The Chairman of each 
Committee reports to the Board, as appropriate, and the 
minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to the 
Board, unless it is inappropriate to do so. More details 
about these Committees can be found in this report.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are 
held separately and there is a clear written division of 
responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief 
Executive, which has been agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of 
the Board and ensuring its effectiveness. The Chief 
Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management 
of the Company and implementation of the strategy and 
policies adopted by the Board. The Chairman’s other 
significant commitments are detailed in his biography 
on page 50.
Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors constructively challenge 
and scrutinise the performance of management and 
help develop proposals on strategy. The letters of 
appointment of the non-executive directors are available 
from the Company on request and will be on display at 
the Annual General Meeting.
Senior Independent Director
Paula Bell was the Senior Independent Director (SID) of 
the Company during 2014. As announced on 29 January 
2015, Mike Parker will become the SID with effect from 
his appointment to the Board on 3 March 2015.
As well as being available to shareholders, whose 
concerns have not been resolved through normal 
channels or when such channels would be inappropriate, 
the SID provides a sounding board for the Chairman and 
serves as an intermediary for the other Directors, where 
necessary. The SID also has responsibility for leading the 
annual appraisal of the Chairman’s performance.
Composition of the Board
The composition of the Board, as outlined on pages 
50 and 51, includes an appropriate balance of the 
skills and experience appropriate for the requirements 
of the business. Further information relating to 
appointments to the Board and the Board’s policy on 
diversity, including gender, is included in the Nomination 
Committee section of this report.
The Chairman, Dr Martin Read, was appointed to the 
Board as an independent non-executive director in 
February 2014 and succeeded Nigel Keen as Chairman 
when he retired at the conclusion of the Annual General 
Meeting on 2 May 2014. Dr Martin Read fulfils the criteria 
for independence as set out in the Code. Further details 
are included in Other Statutory Information on page 96.
52
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Operation of the Board
The Board and Committees have regular scheduled 
meetings and hold additional meetings as and when 
required. The Board meets at least eight times a 
year. A schedule of meetings and principal matters 
to be discussed is normally set out at least 12 months 
in advance. The Board makes periodic visits to the 
Company’s operations. During the year under review, 
the Board as a whole visited the Company’s facility in 
the Czech Republic. The Chairman, Chief Executive 
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also 
visited the Company’s facilities in China and Mexico. 
Additionally, the heads of the business units and other 
senior executives holding functional responsibilities 
periodically give presentations at Board meetings. 
The Board held nine meetings in 2014. There were 
five Audit Committee Meetings, five Remuneration 
Committee Meetings and four Nomination Committee 
Meetings during the year. Details of attendance at 
Board and Committee meetings are given in the table 
above, and are discussed in more detail in the separate 
Committee sections of this report. Directors are 
expected, where possible, to attend all Board meetings, 
relevant Committee meetings and the Annual General 
Meeting. Whenever a director is unable to attend a 
meeting, the director, if possible, consults with the 
Chairman prior to the meeting and is briefed by the 
Chairman after the meeting. 
Independence
Currently the Board comprises a non-executive 
Chairman, four other non-executive directors and two 
executive directors. The Code requires that at least 
half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be 
independent non-executive directors. This requirement 
continues to be met. The Board considers all of the non-
executive directors to be independent of management 
and in character and judgement, and are therefore 
free from any business or other relationship that 
could interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement. The Chairman, Dr Martin Read, was 
considered independent in accordance with the Code 
prior to his appointment as Chairman.
Normally the Chairman and the non-executive directors 
meet at least twice a year without the executive 
directors present and the Senior Independent Director 
meets at least annually with the non-executive directors 
without the Chairman present.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any of the 
Company’s share or bonus schemes and their service is 
non-pensionable.
Induction and training
New directors are provided with an induction process 
when they take on the role and existing directors are 
provided with training as necessary. This can take the 
form of reports and briefings from external advisers 
and senior employees, attendance at seminars and 
conferences and bespoke training. During the year the 
Board received updates from independent advisers on 
changes to reporting requirements and the September 
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code. In addition, as 
part of the Annual Performance Review, each director is 
asked about their individual training needs so that this 
can be factored into forthcoming programmes.
Time Commitment
A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be 
discussed is normally set out at least 12 months in 
advance, enabling the Board to assess the expected time 
commitment. Furthermore, the letters of appointment 
of each director include an approximate estimate of 
Attendance at Board meetings and Committee meetings of the Board
There was full attendance at all meetings in the year except for an additional meeting held in April to approve the 
acquisition of Model Solution which Sir Christopher was unable to attend. He was fully briefed prior to the meeting.
The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year and individual 
attendance by the Board and Committee members at these meetings.
Director Board (9) Audit (5) Remuneration (5) Nomination (4)
N J Keen
1
4 – 2 1
Dr M Read
2
7 – 3 3
D C Lockwood 9 – – –
J C Silver 9 – – -
P Bell 9 5 5 4
J B Boyer 9 5 5 4
Sir Christopher Hum 8 5 5 4
Professor MJ Kelly 9 5 5 4
1
  Retired from the Board on 2 May 2014.
2
  Joined the Board on 28 February 2014.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
53
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 time required per annum to cover meeting attendance, 
preparation for meetings and overseas visits. The Board 
is satisfied that each director is able to devote sufficient 
time to fulfil their duties.
Information and support
It is important that the Board should be supplied with 
information in a timely manner, in a form and of a 
quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties. 
Minutes of meetings are circulated to the relevant 
Committee members prior to each Committee meeting. 
Prior to Board meetings, all directors receive Board 
papers which include detailed financial information, 
a strategic report from the Chief Executive and an 
operational overview from the Chief Financial Officer. 
Directors may also take independent professional advice 
where necessary at the Company’s expense and have 
access to the services of the Company Secretary.
Board evaluation
The performance of individual directors was considered 
by the Chairman in discussion with other non-executive 
directors. The non-executive directors considered the 
performance of the Chairman, taking into account 
the views of the executive directors. The Chairman 
considered the performance of the executive 
directors which was also discussed with the non-
executive directors.
An external evaluation of the Board and its Committees 
was carried out in respect of 2014 by Korn Ferry, an 
independent third party. All directors and the Company 
Secretary completed detailed questionnaires on the 
workings of the Board and its Committees, including:
• the balance of skills and experience;
• relations between executive and non-
executive directors; 
• the timeliness of information provided to the Board;
• the way in which Board meetings are conducted; and
• the way in which the Board has fulfilled its duties.
Korn Ferry then conducted individual interviews with 
each director and the Company Secretary to discuss the 
responses to the questionnaires. Korn Ferry produced a 
report which was presented to the Board. It concluded 
that, in overall terms, the Board and its Committees had 
performed well and that whilst there are areas to be 
addressed, these are not considered an impediment to 
the proper functioning of the Board. To complete the 
process, the Chairman is holding one-to-one interviews 
with each of the directors and the Company Secretary 
to discuss Korn Ferry’s report.
Re-election of directors
All of the directors stand for annual re-election at each 
Annual General Meeting. Biographical details of the 
directors are included in the Notice of Annual General 
Meeting and on pages 50 and 51. Further information 
on Board changes during the year is given in the 
Nomination Committee section of this report and in 
Other Statutory Information on page 96.
Internal control
Laird PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with 
businesses primarily located overseas. These businesses 
are organised as subsidiary companies where the 
management of these companies are appointed to 
manage within the framework established by the Laird 
Board, as well as to comply with local statutory and 
regulatory requirements. Overall responsibility for 
Laird’s systems of internal control including financial, 
operational and compliance controls, and reviewing their 
effectiveness lies with the Laird Board, which ensures 
that a review is carried out at least annually to assess the 
adequacy of those systems. Primary responsibility for 
systems of internal control rests with the managers of 
the subsidiaries. Laird executive directors are responsible 
for implementing Group policy and for monitoring the 
business unit and divisional performance and reporting 
to the Board thereon. Financial information is reviewed 
at business unit level as well as by Laird’s Finance 
Department, which prepares the consolidation and 
financial statements to ensure that the financial position 
and results of the Group are appropriately reflected. 
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in 
place and complies with the Code and the guidance 
of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is 
at least annually reviewed by the Board. This process 
has been in place for the full financial year and up to 
the date the accounts were approved by the Board. 
The systems of internal control are designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives as well as safeguarding the Group’s 
assets. These systems can only provide reasonable but 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement 
or loss.
Group operating rules, authorities and delegations are 
issued periodically to the managers of subsidiaries 
setting out their responsibilities and delegated 
authorities. These rules require approval for specific 
transactions and call for accurate and relevant financial 
information to be delivered on a timely basis. The ability 
to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting 
of management information and the short lines of 
communication with operating managers.
Corporate governance report continued
54
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business units and corporate functions participate in an 
annual strategic planning process to set out strategic 
objectives and identify the related key risk and control 
issues and mitigating actions. This process provides 
the baseline for them to submit their budgets annually 
to management and to Laird’s executive directors 
for approval. In addition, through a risk and controls 
assessment process embedded in business performance 
review process, emergent risk and control issues are 
managed transparently. A risk management update, 
reporting emergent risks and any changes to the 
risk environment, is presented at all Board meetings. 
This process is supplemented by papers submitted to 
the Board by the executive directors throughout the year 
and by meetings from time to time between the Board 
and the management of the businesses, some of which 
take place at the premises of the operating companies. 
The Chief Executive presents the Group’s business 
objectives which are approved by the Board, and the 
Board also addresses those risks which affect the Group 
as a whole. The Board instigates further reports and 
investigations as it considers necessary.
Oversight of the management of risk and governance is 
effected through the Risk and Governance Group (RGG). 
The RGG is chaired by the Chief Executive and includes 
the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the 
Chief Human Resources Officer, the Chief Strategy 
& Technology Officer and the Company Secretary. 
The RGG met five times in 2014, including an ad-hoc 
meeting to review risk management plans for a key fast-
track new country venture. Meetings are held at least 
quarterly with additional ad-hoc meetings for specific 
risk issues or projects as required. Outcomes, actions 
and issues from all meetings are reported to the Board 
as part of the Chief Financial Officer’s report at each 
meeting. Minutes of the RGG are circulated to the Board.
Remuneration Committee
Information on the Remuneration Committee is included 
in the Directors’ remuneration report.
Relations with shareholders
The Company is committed to increasing shareholder 
value and ensures it communicates its prospects 
and achievements to shareholders in a timely 
manner and within the limits imposed by the Listing 
Rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Regular communication with shareholders takes place 
through the Annual Report and Accounts, the Final 
and Interim Results presentation materials and other 
press releases of business significance throughout 
the year. Significant matters relating to the trading or 
development of the business are communicated to the 
market by way of announcements through a regulatory 
information service. These announcements also appear 
on the Company’s website, along with other press 
releases, presentations, webcasts, informative videos 
and business case studies.
The Director of Investor Relations, working closely with 
the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer on a 
day-to-day basis, has full responsibility for devising and 
implementing the Company’s investor communications 
plan to service its current and prospective shareholders 
and provide information to financial analysts.
Written and verbal reports are presented to the Board at 
each meeting on ongoing Investor Relations activity and 
reports from the investor community are fed back on a 
regular basis.
During 2014, there was continued focus on engaging 
with Laird’s institutional shareholders and private 
client brokers to ensure the Company’s prospects and 
developments were understood and to emphasise the 
strategic progress that has been achieved. 
Dr Martin Read, following his appointment as Chairman, 
undertook a series of introductory meetings with 
key shareholders.
Throughout the year, the Company participated in 
shareholder and prospective shareholder meetings 
in the UK and Europe, with activity mainly centred 
around key reporting dates, the March Full Year Results 
announcement, July interims announcement and the 
May and October Interim Management Statement dates. 
Whilst a programme of co-ordinated activity is followed 
throughout the year, where appropriate we also respond 
to ad-hoc requests for meetings. The majority of 
the meetings were attended by a combination of 
the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and/or 
the Director of Investor Relations. The Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director are also available for 
meetings with shareholders in the event that there 
are any concerns which cannot be addressed through 
management, or in connection with any significant 
change to the Company’s strategy, remuneration policy 
or governance arrangements.
Wherever possible, the Chairman and non-executive 
directors attend results presentations and they 
welcome the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity 
to communicate with both private investors and 
institutional shareholders. Shareholders are invited to 
ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet 
the directors informally after the meeting. The Chairman 
gives a formal report on the Company’s progress at 
the meeting and a copy of his statement is issued to 
a regulatory information service and published on the 
Company’s website. All of the directors attended the 
Annual General Meeting in 2014 and the Chairmen 
of the Remuneration and Audit Committees were 
available to answer questions relating to their areas 
of responsibility. The number of proxy votes cast for, 
against and withheld on the resolutions are reported 
to the meeting and following the meeting are published 
on the Company’s website. 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
55
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 During the year, the Committee:
• drew up and debated a skills and experience matrix 
for the composition of the Board, resulting in the 
Committee agreeing the specification for the 
recruitment of a further non-executive director;
• undertook the annual review of the Chief 
Executive’s performance;
• engaged Egon Zehnder to assist with the recruitment 
of a new Chief Financial Officer following the 
announcement that Jonathan Silver, the current CFO, 
would be stepping down at the 2015 AGM;
• considered and recommended to the Board the 
renewal of Sir Christopher Hum’s and Professor Kelly’s 
term of appointment for a further year; and
• reviewed its terms of reference.
Looking ahead, the Committee is giving particular 
thought to the replacement of two long-serving 
directors, Professor Michael Kelly and Sir Christopher 
Hum, who will be completing nine years’ service as 
directors during the course of 2015. We are particularly 
conscious that Laird needs a strong Board to guide it 
through its growth trajectory. The skills, experience and 
diversity of the Board (discussed further in this report) 
will be crucial factors in shaping the search process for 
the new non-executive directors.
Dr Martin Read, CBE 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Report of the Nomination 
Committee
Chairman’s overview
The Committee’s main focus is 
on strengthening and balancing 
the range of skills, experience 
and diversity of the Board.
Dr Martin Read, CBE 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
56
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Objective
To lead the process for Board appointments, and make 
recommendations to the Board.
Responsibilities
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are 
documented and agreed by the Board. The key terms 
are outlined below and the full terms of reference are 
available on the Company’s website, www.laird-plc.com.
• responsibility for identifying and nominating, for 
the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board 
vacancies as and when they arise;
• leading the process for Board appointments and 
making recommendations to the Board;
• in consultation with the Chief Executive, regularly 
reviewing the structure, size and composition 
(including the balance of skills, knowledge, 
independence, experience and diversity) required of 
the Board and making recommendations to the Board 
with regard to any changes; and 
• at least annually, reviewing the performance of the 
Chief Executive.
Membership
The Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board 
and at least two independent non-executive directors. 
It was chaired by Nigel Keen until his retirement on 2 May 
2014 and thereafter by Dr Martin Read. It also comprises 
Paula Bell and Sir Christopher Hum. Following his 
appointment as Senior Independent Director, Mike 
Parker will succeed Paula Bell as a member of 
the Committee.
Meetings
The Nomination Committee met four times during the 
year. Details of attendance at these meetings can be 
found on page 53.
At the invitation of the Committee, and as appropriate 
to the matters under discussion, meetings may be 
attended by members of the Board and external 
advisers. Minutes are kept by the Company Secretary 
of the matters considered and decisions taken by 
the Committee. Minutes are circulated to the Board, 
unless it is inappropriate to do so. The Committee 
has authority to seek any information it requires from 
any officer or employee of the Company or any of its 
subsidiary undertakings. The Committee can take such 
independent professional advice, at the expense of the 
Company, as it considers necessary. 
Korn Ferry were appointed to assist the Committee with 
refreshing the Board and to carry out an independent 
Board Evaluation. They were reappointed in 2014 to 
carry out a further independent Board Evaluation. 
More information on this Board Evaluation can be found 
on page 54. In 2014, Egon Zehnder was appointed 
to assist with the process for selecting a new Chief 
Financial Officer. Apart from Korn Ferry’s and Egon 
Zehnder’s work on these matters and assisting with the 
recruitment of other senior executives within the Group, 
Korn Ferry and Egon Zehnder have no other connection 
with the Company. 
The selection for the new Chief Financial Officer is being 
led by the Chief Executive and the Chairman working 
closely with the current Chief Financial Officer to ensure 
a smooth transition. 
Diversity
The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies 
Report entitled ‘Women on Boards’ and recognises 
the benefits of having diversity across all areas of the 
Group. It is the Company’s aim to have the appropriate 
level of diversity in the boardroom to reflect the diverse 
nature of the Company’s operations whilst remaining 
committed to ensuring that appointments are ultimately 
made on merit against agreed selection criteria. 
Korn Ferry and Egon Zehnder have undertaken to 
ensure that at least 30% of candidates for their long list 
are women, unless they can explicitly justify why this is 
not the case. This undertaking supports the Committee’s 
policy of considering diversity generally when making 
appointments to the Board, taking into account relevant 
skills, experience, knowledge, gender and ethnicity. 
The Committee believes that diversity of thought and 
business experience is paramount when considering 
the make-up of the Board. More information on the 
Company’s gender profile is included in the Corporate 
social responsibility report. 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
57
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Committee engages with the business effectively 
and assesses the adequacy of the internal financial 
control environment. During the year, the business 
has continued its review of the financial shared 
services centres in Europe, North America and Asia, 
which continues to bring strength to the already 
robust financial processes within the organisation. 
The Committee receives regular updates throughout 
the year on any changes in the financial controls 
environment and also receives assurances from external 
professional advisers. The Committee continues to 
challenge and develop the scope of Laird’s internal 
audit programme to match the evolving growth of 
the business in terms of regional expansion into new 
territories and as the organisational structure adapts and 
changes. The Committee also reviews and discusses with 
the external auditor the scope of the audit to ensure it 
appropriately responds to risk.
The Committee monitors and reviews annually 
the whistleblowing policy and any incidents of 
whistleblowing are brought to the Committee’s 
attention. A review of the independent telephone and 
internet provider is currently underway and will be 
concluded shortly. 
Following the introduction of the audit tendering 
provisions in the Code, the recent findings of the 
Competition Commission, the EU regulations and the 
Guidance for Audit Committees issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council, the Committee has decided that 
a competitive audit tender will take place in 2015 to 
coincide with the five-year rotation of the audit partner, 
with a view to the change being implemented in 2016, 
following the 2015 audit. 
The Committee advises the Board as to whether the 
Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
At the beginning of each financial year, the Committee 
agrees the annual agenda of activities identifying key 
areas of focus and emerging topics.
Paula Bell 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
Report of the Audit Committee
Chairman’s overview
As a Committee we are keen 
to constantly evolve our focus 
on financial risks that face the 
business as operations continue 
to grow globally, whilst ensuring 
robust reporting is underpinned 
by appropriate and effective 
processes, controls and assurance. 
The Committee recognises the 
requirement to keep primary areas 
of judgement under review and 
report accordingly and is committed 
to fulfilling its responsibilities in 
this regard.
Paula Bell 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
58
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Objective
To provide effective oversight and governance over the 
Group’s financial reporting, including the adequacy of 
related disclosures, the performance of both the internal 
audit function and the external auditor and the internal 
financial control environment and the processes in place 
to monitor this.
Responsibilities
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are 
documented and agreed by the Board. The key terms 
are outlined below and the full terms of reference are 
available on the Company’s website, www.laird-plc.com.
• reviewing the financial results announcements and 
financial statements and any significant financial 
reporting issues and judgements which they 
may contain;
• advising the Board on whether the Annual Report 
and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy;
• ensuring compliance with applicable accounting 
standards and reviewing the appropriateness of 
accounting policies and practices in place;
• assessing the adequacy of the internal financial control 
environment and the processes in place to monitor 
this, including reviewing the performance of the 
internal audit team;
• overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, 
reviewing their performance and advising the Board 
on their appointment and remuneration;
• ensuring appropriate safeguards are in place for 
individuals to raise issues with the Board where 
a breach of conduct or compliance, including any 
financial reporting irregularity, is suspected; and
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal controls to guard against and detect fraud 
and to consider the Company’s response to any 
such occurrence.
Membership
The Audit Committee members are all independent 
non-executive directors. The Chairman of the Audit 
Committee is Paula Bell and the other members of the 
Audit Committee during the year were Sir Christopher 
Hum, Professor Michael Kelly and Jack Boyer. The Board 
ensures that at least one member of the Audit Committee 
has recent and relevant financial experience. Paula Bell, 
the Chairman of the Committee, is the Group Finance 
Director for John Menzies plc and Jack Boyer is a 
non-executive director on the Board of Mitie Group PLC 
and is a member of their Audit Committee. Furthermore, 
the Board is satisfied that the Audit Committee as a whole 
has sufficient financial, international and commercial 
experience to enable it to carry out its duties. 
Meetings
The Audit Committee met five times during the year. 
Details of attendance at these meetings can be found 
on page 53. The Chairman of the Board, the Chief 
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk 
Officer and the external auditor are given notice of all 
meetings and may be invited to attend and speak at any 
meeting. The external auditor has the opportunity to 
meet with the Audit Committee without any executive 
directors present whenever necessary and the Audit 
Committee ensures that this happens at least once a 
year in order to discuss any issues or concerns from 
either party. Additionally, the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee has regular contact with the external audit 
partner outside of Committee meetings. During the year, 
the Audit Committee held two meetings with EY without 
management being present, in order to receive feedback 
from them on matters such as the quality of interaction 
with management. 
The Audit Committee has authority to seek any 
information it requires from any officer or employee 
of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings. 
It believes that it has received sufficient, reliable and 
timely information from management to enable it to fulfil 
its responsibilities during the year. The Audit Committee 
can take such independent professional advice, at the 
expense of the Company, as it considers necessary. 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
59
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main activities during the year
The Committee has assisted the Board in carrying 
out its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting 
requirements and the assessment of internal financial 
control. It has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
internal audit function and their work and oversaw the 
relationship with the external auditor. 
The Committee, which comprises all non-executive 
directors, normally meets prior to Board meetings and 
before half year and full year announcements and the 
two Interim Management Statements. At least twice a 
year the Committee receives and reviews reports from 
the Chief Risk Officer on internal financial control. 
In accordance with the Code, the Board requested that 
the Committee advise them on whether they believe 
that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
During 2014, the Committee has continued to monitor 
and review the effectiveness of the shared services 
model to ensure that high levels of assurance are being 
maintained. The Committee oversees the assurance 
process to target priorities in a new control model for 
the shared services environment.
The Committee has continued to challenge and develop 
the scope of Laird’s internal audit programme to match 
the evolving growth of the business in terms of regional 
expansion into new territories and as the organisation 
structure adapts and changes. The Committee has also 
reviewed and discussed with the external auditor the 
scope of the audit to ensure it appropriately responds 
to risk.
Financial reporting
The primary role of the Committee in relation to 
financial reporting is to review the half year and annual 
financial statements. The review is carried out with both 
management and the external auditor, and focus areas 
include evaluating whether:
• the Annual Report and Accounts represent a fair, 
balanced and understandable view of information 
for shareholders;
• material areas of significant judgement have been given 
due consideration by management and reviewed with 
the external auditor;
• the quality and acceptability of accounting policies 
and practices;
• clarity of disclosures and compliance to financial 
reporting standards and relevant financial and 
governance reporting requirements; and
• any correspondence from regulators in relation 
to financial reporting.
The primary areas of judgement considered by the 
Committee in relation to the 2014 accounts, and how 
these were addressed, were:
Goodwill impairment testing
The review for impairment of goodwill and intangible 
assets is based on cash flow projections to calculate 
a value in use for each division. These projections are 
based on forecasts which have been prepared by each 
division. The achievability of the forecasts is a risk, given 
the inherent uncertainty within any financial projection. 
The Committee addresses this risk by reviewing the 
assumptions used for each division and the financial 
models used to assess value in use are reviewed as part 
of the audit. See note 17 on pages 129 and 130.
Taxation
Provisioning for potential current tax liabilities and the 
level of deferred tax asset recognition in relation to 
accumulated tax losses are underpinned by a range 
of judgments. The Committee addresses these issues 
through a range of reports from the taxation department 
and senior management and a process of challenging 
the appropriateness of management’s views including 
the degree to which these are supported by professional 
advice from external legal and other advisory firms. 
During the year, there has been a recognition of an 
exceptional £20.1m deferred tax asset in relation to US 
losses. This deferred tax asset recognition has been 
discussed in detail and verified with both the taxation 
department and senior management. The provisioning 
for current tax liabilities and levels of deferred tax asset 
recognition is an area of higher audit risk and accordingly 
the Committee received detailed verbal and written 
reporting from EY on all these matters. 
Report of the Audit Committee continued
60
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Acquisition accounting
There is judgement involved in identifying the value of the 
assets of an acquired business. The accounting policies of 
acquired companies are examined and where they differ 
from Group policies an adjustment is made in the opening 
balance sheet to ensure consistency. Intangible assets and 
goodwill are separately identified as part of this process, 
with any need for impairment considered at December 
2014 based on current factors. The Committee has 
reviewed the disclosure in the financial statements and 
has sought further explanation where necessary.
The acquisition of Model Solution during 2014 included 
put and call options over the non-controlling interests and 
has required the Committee to consider their fair value on 
acquisition and at 31 December 2014. Further information 
is included at note 18 on page 132.
Exceptional costs
The Committee also reviewed the nature and 
classification of some costs as exceptional in the year and 
its compliance with the Group’s accounting policy.
External auditor
Appointment and Independence 
During the year, the Committee reviewed the 
appointment and terms of engagement of EY, the 
external auditor, including the proposed fee structure. 
The Audit Committee has noted the changes to the Code, 
the recent findings of the Competition Commission, the 
EU regulations and the Guidance for Audit Committees 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council, in the context 
of tendering for the external audit contract every 
10 years. EY were appointed as external auditor in 1989 
and their appointment has been subject to annual 
reviews. Following the introduction of the audit tendering 
provisions in the Code, the Committee has decided that a 
competitive audit tender will take place in 2015 to coincide 
with the five-year rotation of the audit partner, with a view 
to the change being implemented in 2016, following the 
2015 audit. There are no contractual obligations which 
restrict the Committee’s recommendation to the Board 
of statutory auditor.
The Audit Committee has reviewed EY’s key policies for 
maintaining objectivity and independence, including the 
policy for the rotation of audit partners which requires a 
new lead audit partner to be appointed every five years. 
In accordance with this policy, there was a change in lead 
audit partner in 2011. The Audit Committee also reviewed 
the policy on employment of former employees of the 
external auditor and confirmed it remained effective. 
The Audit Committee recommended to the Board the  
re-election of EY as the external auditor.
Effectiveness
The Audit Committee considers and reviews the 
effectiveness of the external audit on an annual 
basis, reporting its findings to the Board as part of 
its recommendation. This process is supported by 
the completion of questionnaires by the Committee 
which include consideration of the audit partner, the 
approach, communication and reporting. The results 
of the questionnaires are reported to and discussed by 
the Committee. The Committee also considered the 
scope and planning of the external financial audit and 
assessed the effectiveness of the audit process, including 
a report on the audit firm’s own internal quality control 
procedures. Additionally, the Committee received and 
reviewed the Financial Reporting Council’s Annual Audit 
Quality Inspections Report. After taking into account the 
above factors, the Committee concluded that the external 
auditor remains effective. 
Non-audit services
The Audit Committee recommends for Board approval 
a policy for non-audit services to be performed by the 
auditor. This policy prohibits the use of the external audit 
firm for certain specified matters and the hiring of its 
former employees, without prior approval from the Audit 
Committee Chairman. The auditor will not be engaged to 
provide internal audit services, systems implementations 
or valuations as such services would be deemed to 
conflict with their independence.
The ratio of fees for non-audit work to audit services 
was 1:1 in 2014. There are often sound commercial and 
practical reasons, including confidentiality, for using EY to 
provide non-audit services. Laird continues to use other 
providers for tax planning advice and acquisition due 
diligence. As previously reported, tax compliance fees 
have been unusually high as EY has been advising Laird 
over a number of years on a Bilateral Advanced Pricing 
Agreement, a major tax compliance project involving 
the Chinese and US tax authorities. These fees, which 
amounted to £0.6m in 2014, represent a significant push 
for closure of the outstanding issues and the successful 
conclusion of the US negotiations. Negotiations with the 
Chinese authorities are expected to conclude in 2015. 
Excluding these fees, the ratio of non-audit fees to audit 
was 1:0.5. Details of fees for non-audit work are set out 
in note 6 on page 121.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
61
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Internal audit
The Audit Committee oversees the internal audit function. 
The Audit Committee considers the scope and planning 
of internal financial audits and reviews the internal audit 
process for identifying and managing financial risk and 
the findings of those audits. Deloitte LLP, who provide 
global internal audit services under the direction of 
the Chief Risk Officer, attended four Audit Committee 
meetings during the year. The Chief Risk Officer briefed 
the Audit Committee four times on key internal audit 
matters and findings of internal audit investigations 
and had the opportunity at each meeting to meet with 
the Audit Committee without any executive directors 
present and he met or had phone calls separately with 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee on nine further 
occasions during the year. 
Internal financial control
As noted above, the Audit Committee reviews the 
Group and Company’s financial statements. It also has 
responsibility for reviewing the process for identifying and 
managing financial risk, for reviewing the internal financial 
controls and considers the scope and planning of internal 
and external audits. It reviews reports on internal financial 
control including reports by the Chief Risk Officer and 
the Chief Financial Officer and the results from internal 
financial audits. As part of its audit, the external auditor, 
to the extent it considers necessary to support its audit 
opinion, reviews and tests the systems of internal control 
and the data contained in the accounts, including an 
independent and objective review of the approach of 
management to the reporting of the operating results and 
financial condition.
Whistleblowing
The Audit Committee reviews the Company’s procedure 
for handling allegations from whistleblowers as set 
out in the Company’s Global Code of Conduct (which 
is available on the Company’s website) and any 
whistleblowing events are brought to its attention. 
Following the policy and process review, the Audit 
Committee agreed that the policy works well and no 
changes were recommended. A whistleblowing service, 
which offers a relevant language service in all countries in 
which Laird operates, is made available to all employees 
through an independent telephone and internet provider. 
Employees have the right to remain anonymous. 
A monthly report on any calls received is sent to 
senior management. Investigation of all whistleblower 
communications is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer 
with findings reported to the Board. In order to continue 
to highlight the existence of the service, it was agreed 
that an organisation-wide awareness refresh would be 
appropriate. The intention is that this will be undertaken 
once the review of the independent telephone and 
internet provider has concluded.
Report of the Audit Committee continued
62
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Report of the Administration 
Committee
Objective
To deal with items of a routine and administrative nature.
Responsibilities
The terms of reference of the Administration 
Committee are documented and agreed by the Board. 
The key terms are outlined below and the full terms 
of reference are available on the Company’s website, 
www.laird-plc.com.
• to consent to the appointment of a director, or 
directors of any subsidiary company, where this is 
required under the subsidiary’s Articles of Association;
• to appoint or remove a director, or directors of any 
subsidiary company where this is permissible under 
the subsidiary’s Articles of Association;
• to approve any increase or reclassification or 
subdivision of the authorised and issued share capital 
of any subsidiary company where this is required 
under the subsidiary’s Articles of Association;
• to forfeit unclaimed dividends in accordance with the 
Articles of Association of the Company; and
• to approve the terms of any bank facility.
By order of the Board
A M Downie 
Secretary
2 March 2015
Registered office 
100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ 
Registered in England No. 55513
Membership
The Committee consists of any two or more directors.
Meetings
The Administration Committee met two times during 
the year.
Full minutes are kept by the Company Secretary of 
the matters considered and decisions taken by the 
Committee and are circulated to the Board.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
63
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’  
remuneration report 
for the year to 31 December 2014 
Annual Statement
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Directors’ remuneration 
report for 2014 which has been prepared by the 
Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board. 
Context to the Remuneration 
Committee’s decisions
2014 was a successful year for our business with 8% 
organic growth and, having now achieved six consecutive 
quarters of growth, we are seeing the results of the 
investment in our strategy, building a strong business 
and a clearly defined vision for capturing value for both 
our customers and investors. This has been achieved over 
the past two years under David Lockwood’s leadership.
Performance against the Company’s key performance 
indicators detailed on pages 18 and 19 and the financial 
highlights on page 3 shows the year on year increase in 
revenue and profit.
We believe that our new remuneration policy will play a 
key role in helping us to achieve our corporate goals and 
in furthering the delivery of Laird’s strategy and results.
2014 remuneration decisions
Key decisions made by the Remuneration Committee 
during, and for, the financial year include:
• The increase in salary for David Lockwood of 6.67% 
to £480,000 p.a. in light of our strong corporate 
performance and his excellent leadership of the 
business. The salary increase is consistent with the 
pattern of increases across the organisation (average 
increase 7.91% in 2014 for all employees and 6.86% 
in 2013).
• The decision that the Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer should receive an annual performance 
bonus in respect of 2014 of 50% and 47.5% of base 
salary respectively reflects the good progress in the 
delivery of the strategy during the year (see pages 87 
and 88).
• The remuneration decisions in relation to the departure 
of Jonathan Silver at the AGM on 8 May 2015. In line 
with the Committee’s policy of transparency with 
shareholders, further detail is set out later in this report.
• The support for a proposal by the executive team to 
introduce a plan for selected senior leaders known as 
the medium term incentive plan and a global employee 
share purchase plan.
• The new Remuneration Policy.
Jack Boyer 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
We believe that the new 
remuneration structure will continue 
to support and motivate our 
executive directors in furthering 
the Company’s long-term strategic 
objectives, including the creation of 
sustainable shareholder returns.
  
 
64
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 New Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Looking forward to 2015 and beyond, in line with our commitment to shareholders in last year’s Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Committee conducted a thorough review of our executive remuneration 
policy in 2014. In formulating the new policy we were mindful of previous points raised by shareholders and the new 
policy incorporates a number of shareholder suggestions. In shaping our new remuneration policy we conducted an 
extensive consultation exercise with the Company’s top shareholders. I had the benefit of meeting the Company’s 
top 5 shareholders, as well as the Investment Association (IA) and Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) and 
discussing directly with them the proposed changes. In addition, I engaged with the next 8 largest shareholders. 
I and the other members of the Remuneration Committee were extremely appreciative of the input received from 
shareholders as part of this process. 
The key criteria for the review were: 
Review criteria
1.  Ensure Laird’s remuneration policy, Laird’s strategy for accelerated growth and the creation of long-term 
shareholder value are aligned.
2.  Strengthen the link between reward and sustained performance and recognise exceptional performance 
appropriately when this occurs.
3.  Provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable performance-related components, with a significant 
element of long term variable pay given the long term nature of the business. 
4.  Simplify the policy overall and bring it in line with emerging best practice where appropriate.
The following table sets out the proposed changes and their relationship to the review criteria:
Changes
Review Criteria
Summary of changes 1 2 3 4
•  Increase annual bonus (known as the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme) maximum opportunity up 
to 150% of salary
4
•  Introduction of a deferral mechanism in the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme, whereby 
1
/3 of any bonus 
payment will be deferred into shares for a three year period
4 4 4
•  Removal of the Market Value Options from the remuneration policy and replacement with performance 
shares with an award maximum of up to 200% of salary (new awards to be granted under the 2015 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan – the “2015 LTIP”)
4 4
•  Corresponding amendments to the performance targets for the awards to be made under the 2015 LTIP 
to ensure that maximum levels of vesting are only delivered for exceptional performance
4 4
•  Introduction of a two year holding period for awards granted under the 2015 LTIP in line with best practice 
in the market
4 4
•  Malus and clawback policies have been put in place and or revised for both the Annual Performance Incentive 
Scheme and the 2015 LTIP in line with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and best practice in this area
4
•  An increased shareholding requirement – increased from 100% to 200% of salary for the Chief Executive 4 4
Executive incentives and link to Company KPIs
The following table sets out a number of the Company’s KPIs and how their satisfaction is encouraged by the new 
incentive framework introduced as part of the proposed new policy:
KPI PBT Performance Satisfaction of  
Key Strategic Objectives
Sustainable Profit Growth 
(EPS)
Maximise Total 
Shareholder Returns
Annual Performance 
Incentive Scheme
4 4
2015 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan
4 4
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
65
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 We believe that the new remuneration structure will continue to support and motivate our executive directors, in 
furthering the Company’s long-term strategic objectives including the creation of sustainable shareholder returns. 
Furthermore, we are satisfied that the composition and structure of the remuneration package is appropriate and 
does not incentivise undue risk-taking or reward underperformance. 
Wider approach
Since 2013, the Board, led by the Chief Executive, has been transforming the remuneration strategy of the Company 
to ensure all employees share in its success through performance-related remuneration and share ownership. 
Because of the numerous jurisdictions Laird operates in, some of these plans have taken time to mature.
During the year, two further remuneration arrangements were presented by the executive team to the Remuneration 
Committee for implementation in 2015. Following significant discussion and review, these have been approved by 
the Committee and the Board.
For senior leaders (excluding the executive directors), the Board has adopted a new incentive arrangement known as 
the Medium Term Incentive Plan (MTIP). Awards will provide alignment between senior leaders and our shareholders 
based on overall corporate performance of the business. The key performance condition is Earnings Per Share (EPS) 
growth over a three-year period. Shares used to satisfy awards under the MTIP will be purchased on the market and 
therefore we are not seeking approval from shareholders to use new issue shares.
For all employees, the Board is intending to implement a new share purchase plan (known as the International Share 
Purchase Plan or ISPP). In order to meet juridisdictional requirements and to operate the plan most efficiently there 
is a requirement in a number of countries for a separate plan within this framework to be approved by shareholders. 
In all cases the broad commercial terms will remain the same. Under the new plans, all employees will have the 
opportunity to purchase shares in the Company subject to certain restrictions and will receive either additional 
shares free of charge or the right to purchase at a discount (dependent on country of operation). Approval is being 
sought at the 2015 Annual General Meeting to operate the new arrangements.
The remuneration arrangements operating across the Company for 2015 (subject to relevant shareholder approvals) 
are set out below. In addition, the following table demonstrates how key objectives are reflected consistently in plans 
operating at all levels within the Company.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
66
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Plan Purpose Eligibility
Objectives
Financial 
Performance 
(Profit & 
Earnings per 
Share)
Strategic & 
Operational 
Goals
Long-term 
Value Creation 
(encouraged 
through equity 
retention)
Share 
Ownership
ISPP or country 
equivalent
To broaden share 
ownership and share in 
corporate success over 
the medium term
The majority of 
employees depending 
on country
4 4
Profit share scheme
To share in annual 
success above target
All employees not in any 
other performance or 
management scheme
4
Annual bonus
Incentivise and 
reward short-term 
performance
Managers, senior 
managers and senior 
leaders
4 4
Conditional  
Share Awards  
– annual with three-
year vesting
Broaden share 
ownership, alignment 
and retention 
Senior managers and 
senior leaders
4 4
Conditional  
Share Awards  
– ad hoc with three-
year vesting
Broaden share 
ownership, retention 
and incentive
High-potential 
employees, high-
performing employees
4 4
MTIP – three-year 
performance condition
Broaden share 
ownership, alignment, 
retention, long-term 
performance
Senior leaders 4 4 4 4
Annual Performance 
Incentive Scheme
Incentivise and 
reward short-term 
performance plus 
retention through 
deferral
Executive directors 4 4 4 4
2015 LTIP
Incentivise and 
reward long-term 
performance
Executive directors and 
selected others
4 4 4 4
In addition to the above, in 2014, the Company introduced a points-based recognition scheme under which any 
employee can recognise a colleague and propose the award of points at differing levels. Points are accumulated 
to purchase catalogue-style rewards. The obvious safeguards are deployed to avoid abuse. Participation in the 
programme since launch is over 35%.
Shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM
Resolutions to approve the new Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the Annual Report on Remuneration, the rules of 
the 2015 LTIP and the new all employee share plans will be put to this year’s Annual General Meeting to be held on 
8 May 2015. 
Details of voting at last year’s Annual General Meeting, where 94.74% and 97.95% of those voting supported the 
resolutions to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration respectively, are 
set out on page 95 of this report.
We remain committed to hearing, and take an active interest in, your views as shareholders. If you would like 
to discuss any further aspect of our remuneration strategy I would welcome your views. I can be contacted at 
j.boyer@laird-plc.com.
Jack Boyer 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
2 March 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
67
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Our remuneration at a glance
The Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy supports Laird’s strategic drivers, which are set out on pages 16 
and 17. The Policy and its use of performance metrics appropriately support shareholder value creation by delivering 
sustainable performance consistent with the strategic drivers and appropriate risk management. 
Summary of New Policy and key changes from the Old Policy
Element New Policy Summary 
description
Maximum opportunity Summary of changes 
from Old Policy 
Base salary
Base salaries are set at a level 
to recognise the market value 
of the role, the performance of 
the individual, the individual’s 
experience and responsibilities 
and pay and conditions 
throughout the Company. 
In normal circumstances, where 
appropriate, annual increases are 
made in line with the average of 
employees’ salary increases.
No change in policy.
Pension and 
benefits
Either a contribution to a personal 
pension scheme or the Company’s 
defined contribution pension 
scheme; or cash allowance in lieu 
of pension benefits.
Pension contribution or cash 
allowance in lieu of pension benefits 
up to 25% of salary and levels of 
benefits are defined by market rates. 
No change in policy.
Annual bonus
Annual bonus is payable each year 
subject to performance against a 
scorecard consisting of financial 
and non-financial targets. 
1/3rd of any award deferred into 
shares for a period of three years.
150% of salary. Incentive opportunity has been 
increased from 100% to 150% 
of salary. 
Mandatory deferral of 1/3rd 
into shares for three years and 
the introduction of malus and 
clawback.
Long term 
Incentives 
Performance shares (known as 
“LTIP Awards”) vest subject to 
the achievement of relative Total 
Shareholder Return and Earnings 
per Share targets at the end of a 
three year period.
200% of base salary. Market Value Options element 
of the package removed and 
replaced with single award of 
performance shares. Two-year 
holding period introduced.
New malus and clawback rules 
introduced. 
Shareholding 
requirement
200% of salary for the Chief 
Executive. Up to 200% of salary 
for other Executive directors.
n/a Increased from 100% of salary. 
Full details of the new Annual Performance Incentive Scheme and 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the rationale 
for the changes to the Remuneration Policy are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
68
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme outcomes for 2014
Annual Performance Incentive Scheme: Bonus awards for 2014 reflects the good progress in delivering the strategy 
during the year. 
The Remuneration Committee determined that a bonus payment equal to 50% and 47.5% of salary would be paid to 
David Lockwood and Jonathan Silver respectively following an assessment of the 2014 corporate scorecard, as set 
out below, and taking into account Laird’s underlying financial performance and also individual performance.
Measure Targets Outcome
Underlying PBT
Weighting 70%
Maximum bonus for this element payable on 
achievement of underlying PBT of £65.4m.
Threshold: £62.13m.
£62.62m of bonus PBT achieved
1
. (27.5% 
of salary payable for both Executive 
directors).
Working capital metrics
Weighting 10%
Management of trade working capital, taking into 
account Days Sales Outstanding, Days Payable 
Outstanding and inventory turns against those 
budgeted.
Targets partially achieved. (5% of salary 
payable for both Executive directors). 
See detail on page 87.
Strategic objectives
Weighting 20%
Examples of targets include: 
• To produce a group level strategy for the next 
3-5 years.
• To demonstrate an improvement in Environmental 
Health & Safety performance.
• Increase customer diversification.
• Drive One Laird revenue synergies from the 
business units/product lines.
• Achieve the finance business partnering model.
• The achievement of a medium to long-term 
debt financing.
Targets partially achieved. (17.5% of 
salary payable to the Chief Executive 
and 15% of salary payable to the Chief 
Financial Officer). See detail on page 87.
Notes
1.  The Underlying PBT has been adjusted for certain foreign exchange results giving a lower PBT for the bonus calculation.
2. Although not required to do so under the Rules of the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme, David Lockwood has advised the Committee 
that he intends to use the net proceeds of his bonus in respect of 2014 to purchase shares in the Company as soon as practicable after 
the announcement of the Company’s Results on 3 March 2015. Jonathan Silver, who will be retiring in May 2015, has already exceeded the 
shareholding requirement and will therefore not purchase any additional shares.
2014 single total figure of remuneration for executive directors
The table below summarises the 2014 and 2013 single total figure of remuneration: 
Executive director (£’000)
Base  
salary
Taxable 
 benefits
1
Annual  
bonus
Long-term 
incentives
2
Pension/
Cash in lieu of 
pension Total
David Lockwood 2014 465 18 240 – 116 839
2013 438 14 270 – 109 831
Jonathan Silver 2014 345 21 164 673 138
3
1,341
2013 341 21 173 498 148
3
1,181
Notes
1. Benefits include a car allowance, or car and fuel, and private medical insurance. David Lockwood’s taxable benefits for 2014 also include a sum of 
£3,757 where the Company paid for his wife to accompany him on an overseas business trip.
2. The value of long-term incentives is calculated using the closing mid-market share price on the date the performance conditions are met or the 
minimum period for holding is met.
3. This includes the cash in lieu of pension amount and the single pension figure set out on page 89.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
69
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued
2014 actual single figure versus remuneration policy
The following charts show the actual single figure for remuneration for the executive directors against the 
remuneration policy scenarios applying for 2014:
David Lockwood
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
47%
24%
29%
36%
28%
71%
29%
36%
100% £577 £577
£293
£577
£450
£365
£584
£599
£240
£577
£1,235
£1,611
£839
Maximum Actual Single 
Figure (2014)
On-Target Minimum
Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP: intrinsic value of vested awards at grant
LTIP: value delivered via share price growth LTIP
£’000
 
Jonathan Silver
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP: intrinsic value of vested awards at grant
LTIP: value delivered via share price growth LTIP
100% 51% 40%
22%
27%
27%
38%
12%
50%
33%
£504 £504 £504 £504
£224
£345
£164
£264
£422
£281
£392
£1,341
£1,271
£992
£504
Maximum Actual Single 
Figure (2014)
On-Target Minimum
£’000
In accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations) 
no allowance has been made for share price appreciation for “Minimum”, “On-Target” and “Maximum” scenarios. Therefore, for comparison with 
the 2014 actual single figure “LTI” number (which shows the value of an award at vesting) the value has been separated to show the intrinsic value 
of the LTI awards at grant and the value delivered via share price growth over the three year performance period. David Lockwood’s actual fixed 
remuneration for 2014 was higher than the remuneration policy scenarios disclosed in the 2013 Directors’ Remuneration Policy following the mid-
year increase to salary at the normal review date (i.e. the Committee’s policy is to review salaries 1 July each year). See page 78 of the 2013 Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy Report for full details of the assumptions used to calculate the Policy scenarios.
Total equity exposure at 31 December 2014
The following table and chart sets out all subsisting interests in the equity of the Company held by the executive 
directors at 31 December 2014:
Executive 
director Shareholding at 31 December 2014
2003 LTIP/2003 ESOP and 2013 LTIP interests
Total interests 
in LTIPs/
ESOP held at 
31 December 
2014
Interests subject to 
conditions Vested but unexercised
Shares 
required to 
be held % of 
salary
Number 
of shares 
required to 
hold
Number of 
beneficially 
owned shares
Shareholding 
requirement
Nil-Cost 
Awards
Market Value 
Options
Nil-Cost 
Awards
Market 
Value 
Options
David Lockwood 100% 154,340 25,077 No
1
545,093 545,093 – – 1,090,186 
Jonathan Silver 100% 110,932 682,573 Yes 429,538 322,154 – 172,803 924,495 
Notes
1. David Lockwood joined Laird in August 2012 and therefore has not yet had time to achieve the full holding.
2. It should be noted that under the new Policy the shareholding requirement for the Chief Executive will be increased to 200% of salary.
Shareholding requirement David Lockwood 
(% of salary)
Jonathan Silver 
(% of salary)
Value of beneﬁcially owned shares
Value of/gain on interests over Laird shares 
(i.e. unvested/unexercised awards)
Shareholding requirement
Value of beneﬁcially owned shares
Value of/gain on interests over Laird shares 
(i.e. unvested/unexercised awards)
0% 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600% 700%
70
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Committee and Advisors
Consideration by the directors of matters relating to director’s remuneration 
Members of the Committee during 2014
Director 
Number of 
meetings 
held during 
tenure during 
the year
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Dr Martin Read
1
3 3
Paula Bell 5 5
Jack Boyer 5 5
Sir Christopher Hum 5 5
Nigel Keen
2
2 2
Professor Michael Kelly 5 5
Notes
1.  Appointed as a director on 28 February 2014.
2. Retired on 2 May 2014.
The members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in matters to be 
decided, no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running 
the business. 
Role of the Committee and activities
The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the remuneration policy for executive directors and 
the senior management and for setting the remuneration packages for each executive director. The Committee also 
has oversight of the remuneration policy and packages for other senior members of staff.
The written Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Company’s website and from the Company 
on request.
The Committee held five meetings during the year. Its activities during 2014 included approving the 2013 Annual 
Performance Incentive Scheme; approving the framework for the 2014 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme; 
determining if performance conditions for Laird’s long-term incentive arrangements had been met; reviewing 
the Committee’s Terms of Reference; approving the Directors’ Remuneration Report for approval by the Board; 
reviewing the base salaries of the executive directors and other senior executives; conducting a thorough review of 
the executive remuneration policy and incentive arrangements for all employees for 2015 and beyond; considering 
the remuneration decisions in relation to the departure of Jonathan Silver and the proposed remuneration for the 
new Chief Financial Officer. 
Advisers to the Committee
In September 2013, a competitive tender overseen by the Chairman of the Committee with input from the Chief 
Executive, Chairman of the Board and the Company Secretary was conducted with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC) appointed as independent advisers to the Committee. PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and, as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in 
the UK. On this basis, the Committee is satisfied that the advice received is objective and independent.
PwC also provided the Company with tax advisory work and financial due diligence on an acquisition during the 
year. The Committee reviewed the nature of the services provided and was satisfied that no conflict of interest exists 
or existed in the provision of these services. 
The Committee also sought the views of the Chief Executive, David Lockwood, during the year. The Chief Executive 
is given notice of all meetings and, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends part of the meetings. 
The Chief Executive may request that he attends and speaks at Committee meetings. In normal circumstances, the 
Chief Executive will be consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive director 
and employees. 
The total fees paid to PwC in respect of services to the Committee during the year were £141,900. Fees were 
determined based on the scope and nature of the projects undertaken for the Committee.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
71
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Implementation of the new policy for 2015
Subject to shareholder approval of the new Policy, it is the intention of the Committee to operate the Policy for 2015 
as set out below.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy for 2015
Executive directors
The remuneration policy and its implementation for the forthcoming financial year is summarised below:
Salary
The salary for the Chief Executive was increased from £450,000 p.a. to £480,000 p.a. with effect from 1 July 2014. 
No salary increase was applied to Jonathan Silver’s salary (£345,000). 
It is the Committee’s policy to review Executive directors’ salaries as at 1 July each year. Any changes to salaries in 
2015 will be in line with policy and disclosed in the 2015 Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Annual Performance Incentive Scheme 2015
Details of the maximum and threshold bonus potentials along with the performance measures and their respective 
weightings for the year ending 31 December 2015 are set out below:
Bonus opportunity
Performance measure 
weighting (% award)
Executive director
Threshold  
(% of 
maximum)
Maximum 
(% of salary)
Underlying 
profit before 
tax
Strategic 
objectives
David Lockwood 20% 150% 70% 30%
The Remuneration Committee considers that disclosing precise targets of profit and strategic objectives, which 
are commercially sensitive, for the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme in advance would not be in shareholder 
interests. Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance 
periods where possible without compromising confidential matters so that shareholders can fully assess the basis 
for any payouts.
Two-thirds of the bonus award will be paid out in cash with the further one-third deferred into shares subject 
to a further three year vesting period. No further performance targets apply to the deferred shares.
72
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2015 LTIP Awards
Details of the maximum LTIP Awards (i.e. performance share awards) to be made under the 2015 LTIP for which 
the Company is seeking approval at the AGM on 8 May 2015 are set out below. If approved, awards will be made 
following the AGM. 
Maximum opportunity (% salary) Performance measure Weighting (% award) Performance target Vesting level
200% for the Chief Executive Total Shareholder Return 
relative to the FTSE 250 
(excluding financial services 
sector companies and 
investment trusts)
50% Upper Quintile Full Vesting
Median to Upper Quintile Pro-rata on a straight-
line basis between 20% 
and full Vesting
Below Median Nil
Average Annual Growth 
in Continuing Earnings 
Per Share
50% 13% p.a. Full Vesting
Between 5% and  
13%  p.a.
Pro-rata on a straight-
line basis between 10% 
and full Vesting
5% p.a. Threshold 10% Vesting
Awards will be subject to performance measures over a three year period. A two year holding period will apply 
following the three year vesting period for LTIP Awards granted to the executive directors.
Pension
Details of pension contributions for the year ending 31 December 2015 are set out below:
Executive director Pension contribution
David Lockwood 25% of base pay
Non-executive directors
The following table sets out the fee rates for the non-executive directors from 1 January 2014 and those rates at 
1 January 2015: 
1 January 2014
 1 January 
2015 % change
Chairman’s Fee
1
£165,000 £165,000 0
Non-executive director’s fee £44,000 £44,000 0
Additional fee for Senior Independent Director or chairmanship of Audit and Remuneration 
Committees £7,000 £7,000 0
Notes
1. Dr Martin Read, who became Chairman with effect from the close of the 2014 AGM, is paid a fee of £165,000 p.a. (The previous Chairman 
received a fee of £190,000 p.a.)
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
73
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
This section of the Report contains details of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy that will govern the Company’s 
future remuneration payments. The policy is intended to apply for three years.
The policy described in this part, subject to approval by shareholders at the Company’s AGM on 8 May 2015, will 
apply from that date. The policy part will be displayed on the Company’s website, in the Investor Relations section, 
immediately after the 2015 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee (the Committee) has established the policy on the remuneration of the executive 
directors and the Chairman. The Board has established the policy on the remuneration of the other non-
executive directors. 
Previous awards granted under the old remuneration policy will be honoured.
Executive director remuneration policy 
The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for executive directors:
Objective and 
link to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
and assessment
Base salary
Core element of 
remuneration, set 
at a level which 
is sufficiently 
competitive to 
recruit and retain 
management of the 
appropriate calibre 
and experience 
to achieve the 
Company’s business 
strategy.
Salaries are reviewed annually, and 
any changes normally take effect 
from 1 July.
When determining the salary of 
the executives the Committee 
takes into consideration:
• the levels of base salary 
for similar positions 
with comparable status, 
responsibility and skills, in 
organisations of broadly 
similar size and complexity, in 
particular the median salary 
levels of those comparable 
companies within the FTSE 
250 (excluding investment 
trusts) and the FTSE All 
Share Technology Sector. 
The Committee intends to 
review the list of companies 
each year and may add or 
remove companies from 
the group as it considers 
appropriate. Any changes to 
the comparator groups will 
be disclosed in the part of the 
report setting out the operation 
of the policy for the future year;
• the performance of the 
individual executive director;
• the individual executive 
director’s experience and 
responsibilities; and
• pay and conditions throughout 
the Company.
No recovery provisions apply to 
base salary.
Annual rate for each executive 
director is set out for 2015 on 
page 72.
The previous column sets out 
the factors that will be taken into 
consideration in determining the 
salary.
In normal circumstances, where 
appropriate, annual increases 
are made in line with the average 
of employees’ salary increases, 
unless the Committee determines 
otherwise.
Any increase in salary for the 
executive directors will be 
benchmarked against the salary 
levels of the comparator groups set 
out in the previous column.
Individuals who are recruited or 
promoted to the Board may, on 
occasion, have their salaries set 
below the targeted policy level 
until they become established in 
their role. In such cases subsequent 
increases in salary may be higher 
than the average until the target 
positioning is achieved.
Not applicable.
74
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Objective and 
link to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
and assessment
Other benefits
Provides a market 
competitive package.
Reviewed periodically to 
ensure benefits remain market 
competitive.
Benefits include:
• car and fuel or car allowance;
• life, personal accident, disability 
and health insurance;
• travel and Directors’ & Officers’ 
insurance; and
• other benefits as provided from 
time to time, for example where 
a director relocates.
No recovery provisions apply to 
benefits.
Benefit values vary year on year 
depending on premiums and the 
maximum potential value is the cost 
of the provision of these benefits.
Not applicable. 
Annual Performance Incentive Scheme
Incentivises the 
achievement of 
a range of short-
term performance 
targets that are key 
to the success of 
the Company and 
provides long-term 
alignment with 
shareholders through 
the use of deferral.
Annual Performance Incentive 
Scheme awards are granted 
annually following the signing of 
the Report and Accounts usually 
in March.
Performance period is one 
financial year with payout 
determined by the Committee 
following the year end, based 
on achievement against a range 
of financial and non financial 
targets including having regard to 
environmental, health and safety 
issues.
2/3rds of the bonus award will be 
paid out in cash with the further 
1/3rd deferred into shares subject 
to a further three year vesting 
period. There are no further 
performance targets on the 
deferred amount.
Malus and clawback arrangements 
are in place. These are compliant 
with the FRC UK Corporate 
Governance Code and in line with 
best practice in this area.
Maximum: 150% of salary.
Threshold performance: 20% of 
maximum.
Participants may be entitled to 
dividends or dividend equivalents on 
the deferred shares representing the 
dividends paid during the deferral 
period.
Performance targets will be 
set by the Committee annually 
based on a range of financial 
and strategic measures, 
including but not limited to:
• underlying profit before tax 
including interest;
• the achievement of criteria 
designed to assess and 
drive performance against a 
number of key, measurable 
strategic, operational and 
corporate objectives for 
the Company.
The Committee has the 
discretion to adjust targets or 
performance measures for any 
exceptional events that may 
occur during the year.
As well as determining the 
measures and targets, the 
Committee will also determine 
the weighting of the various 
measures to ensure that they 
support the business strategy 
and objectives for the relevant 
year.
Further details on the measures 
for 2015 are set out on page 72.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
75
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Objective and 
link to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
and assessment
Long-term incentives
Incentivises the 
achievement of 
long-term financial 
performance and 
sustainable returns 
to shareholders in a 
way that aligns the 
interests of executives 
and shareholders.
Subject to shareholder approval 
at the AGM to be held on 8 May 
2015, under the 2015 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (2015 LTIP) the 
Committee may award annual 
grants of performance share 
awards in the form of conditional 
awards or nil-cost options (LTIP 
Awards) on an annual basis. 
LTIP awards under the 2015 
LTIP will vest three years from 
the date of grant subject to the 
achievement of the performance 
measures. 
A two year holding period will 
apply following the three year 
vesting period for LTIP Awards 
granted to the executive directors.
Malus and clawback arrangements 
are in place. These are compliant 
with the FRC UK Corporate 
Governance Code and in line with 
best practice in this area.
Maximum LTIP Awards are 200% of 
base salary.
Vesting is dependent on service and 
performance measures.
Participants may be entitled to 
dividends or dividend equivalents 
representing the dividends paid 
during the performance period on 
vested LTIP Awards. 
The performance measures 
for LTIP Awards are equally 
weighted between Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) and 
Earnings Per Share (EPS).
TSR will be measured against 
companies in the FTSE 250 
(excluding Financial Services 
companies and Investment 
Trusts). 
20% vesting for median 
performance and 100% vesting 
for upper quintile performance. 
Average Annual Growth in 
Continuing EPS – 10% vesting 
for threshold performance and 
100% vesting for maximum 
performance. 
The Committee has the 
discretion to adjust targets or 
performance measures for any 
exceptional events that may 
occur during the year.
The Committee will review and 
set weightings and targets 
before each grant to ensure 
they remain appropriate. The 
Committee may change the 
balance of the measures, 
or use different measures 
for subsequent awards, as 
appropriate. 
No material change will 
be made to the type of 
performance conditions without 
prior shareholder consultation.
76
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Objective and 
link to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
and assessment
Pension
To aid retention 
and to provide 
competitive levels of 
retirement benefit.
The Company provides either 
a contribution to a personal 
pension scheme; the Company’s 
defined contribution scheme; or 
cash allowance in lieu of pension 
benefits.
No recovery provisions apply to 
pension.
The maximum pension contribution 
or payment in lieu of pension is equal 
to 25% of base salary.
Not applicable.
All-Employee Plans
The purpose of these 
plans is to encourage 
all employees to 
become shareholders 
in the Company 
and thereby align 
their interests with 
shareholders.
Depending on country of 
operation, employees will have the 
opportunity to purchase shares in 
the Company subject to certain 
restrictions and in return will 
receive either additional shares or 
the right to purchase shares at a 
discount.
The limits for employees are set out 
in the appendices to the 2015 AGM 
Notice of Meeting.
Not applicable.
Shareholding policy
To ensure that 
executive directors’ 
interests are aligned 
with those of 
shareholders over a 
longer time horizon.
Executive directors are expected 
to retain, as shares, all of the after-
tax profit on the gains made on 
the vesting of share awards and 
the exercise of share options, until 
they have acquired the necessary 
shares to meet their requirement.
Shares up to a value of 200% of base 
salary. 
Not applicable.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
77
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Notes to the Future Policy Table
Malus and clawback
Term Detail
Malus & clawback Both the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme and the 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan include best practice 
malus and clawback provisions. The circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are as follows:
• discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an adjustment in the audited consolidated accounts of 
the Company; 
• the assessment of any performance target or condition in respect of an award was based on error, or 
inaccurate or misleading information; 
• the discovery that any information used to determine the number of shares subject to an award was based 
on error, or inaccurate or misleading information; 
• action or conduct of an award holder which, in the reasonable opinion of the Board, amounts to employee 
fraud or gross misconduct; 
• events or behaviour of an award holder have led to the censure of the Company by a regulatory authority or 
have had a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group Company provided that the Board 
is satisfied that the relevant award holder was responsible for the censure or reputational damage and that 
the censure or reputational damage is attributable to him.
Malus will apply up to the date of the bonus determination and for 3 years from the date of the bonus 
determination for the deferred shares under the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme. Clawback will apply 
for 3 years to the cash proportion from the date of the bonus determination. 
Malus will apply for the 3 year period from grant to vesting with clawback applying for the 2 year period post 
vesting under the 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The Committee is satisfied that the rules of the Plans provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback 
if required.
Performance measures and targets
The short and long-term incentives have a number of different financial performance measures which the 
Committee believes provide a direct link to the Company’s performance. The Annual Performance Incentive Scheme 
contains specific strategic and operational objectives which provide a direct link to the Company’s strategy, whilst 
the long-term performance incentive targets of TSR and EPS are considered to be appropriate measures for aligning 
the interests of the executive directors with those of shareholders. 
The Committee is of the opinion that, given the commercial sensitivity of Laird’s operations, disclosing precise 
targets for the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme in advance would not be in shareholders’ interests. 
Except in circumstances where elements remain commercially sensitive, actual targets, performance achieved 
and awards made will be published at the end of the performance periods so shareholders can fully assess the basis 
for any payouts.
Discretion
The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report. The Committee may also exercise 
operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those 
rules. In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters 
where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
78
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Illustration of application of remuneration policy
The chart below seeks to demonstrate how pay varies with performance for the Chief Executive based on our 
stated remuneration policy. 
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
2250
2500
Fixed
£’000
Annual Bonus LTIP
100% 37% 27%
29%
34%
31%
42%
£614 £614 £614
£468
£720
£552
£960
£2,294
£1,634
£614
Maximum On-Target Minimum
Assumptions used in determining the level of pay-out under given scenarios are as follows:
Element Minimum On-Target Maximum
Fixed Elements Fixed elements do not vary with performance and comprise:
• Base salary: Salary effective from 1 July 2014, £480,000 for David Lockwood
• Benefits; £14,000 for David Lockwood
• Cash in lieu of pension contributions: 25% of salary for David Lockwood
Annual Performance Incentive 
Scheme (“Annual Bonus”) 
0% 65% of maximum pay-out Maximum award
1
2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”)
0% Mid-point between threshold 
and maximum pay-out
Maximum award
2,3
1
 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme: Maximum annual bonus is 150% of base salary for David Lockwood.
2
 2015 LTIP Awards: 200% of salary for David Lockwood.
3
 In accordance with the Regulations, no allowance has been made for share price appreciation.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
79
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Non-executive director remuneration policy
The Board as a whole is responsible for setting the remuneration of the non-executive directors, other than the 
Chairman whose remuneration is determined by the Committee and recommended to the Board. The table below 
sets out the key elements of the policy for non-executive directors:
Objective and link to the 
strategy
Operation Maximum potential value
Fees
Core element of remuneration, 
set at a level sufficient to attract 
and retain individuals with 
appropriate knowledge and 
experience in organisations 
of broadly similar size and 
complexity.
Fee levels are sufficient to attract individuals with 
appropriate knowledge and experience.
Non-executive directors are paid a base fee and additional 
fees for chairmanship of Committees and the role of Senior 
Independent Director. In exceptional circumstances, 
fees may also be paid for additional time spent on the 
Company’s business outside of the normal duties. 
The Company currently does not pay committee 
membership fees but the Board reserves the right to do so 
if deemed appropriate.
Reviewed annually with any changes generally effective 
from 1 January.
Any increases in fees will be determined based on 
time commitment and take into consideration level 
of responsibility and fees paid in other companies of 
comparable size and complexity i.e. median fee levels of 
comparable companies within the FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment trusts) and the FTSE All Share Technology 
Sector. The Committee intends to review the list of 
companies each year and may add or remove companies 
from the group as it considers appropriate. Any changes 
to the comparator groups will be disclosed in the part of 
the report setting out the operation of the policy for the 
future year.
Non-executive directors do not receive any variable 
remuneration element or receive any other benefits, 
other than being covered for disability benefits 
under the Company’s insurance whilst travelling on 
Company business. 
Current fees are set out on page 73.
In normal circumstances, where 
appropriate, annual increases are 
made in line with the average of 
employees’ salary increases, unless 
the Board determines otherwise.
The Company will pay reasonable 
expenses incurred by the Chairman 
and non-executive directors.
Approach to recruitment and promotions
The Committee’s approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of 
the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role. The remuneration package for any new recruit would be 
assessed following the same principles as for the executive directors, as set out in the remuneration policy table. 
The Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred 
candidate and will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short 
or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance measures 
associated with an award.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of 
promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or 
remuneration arrangements. Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee 
would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the employee. These would be disclosed to 
shareholders in the following year’s Annual Report on Remuneration. 
80
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The table below summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration:
Element Policy
Base salary and 
benefits
The salary level will be set taking into account a number of factors including market practice, the individual’s 
experience and responsibilities and other pay structures within Laird and will be consistent with the salary 
policy for existing executive directors.
The executive director shall be eligible to receive benefits in line with Laird’s benefits policy as set out in the 
remuneration policy table.
Pension An executive director will be able to receive either a contribution to a personal pension scheme, a contribution 
to Laird’s defined contribution pension scheme, or cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits in line with Laird’s 
policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Annual Bonus An executive director will be eligible to participate in the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme as set out in 
the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable in the remuneration policy table at the 
Committee’s discretion.
Long-Term 
incentives
An executive director will be eligible to participate in the Laird PLC 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan as set out in 
the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable under scheme rules at the Committee’s 
discretion.
Maximum Variable 
Remuneration
The maximum annual variable remuneration that an executive director can receive is normally limited to 350% 
of salary (Annual Performance Incentive Scheme and 2015 LTIP Awards). 
Share buy-outs/ 
replacement awards
The Committee’s policy is to not provide buy outs as a matter of course. However, should the Committee 
determine to provide a share buy out/replacement awards, the Committee will seek to structure any 
replacement awards such that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than 
the awards due to be forfeited. 
In determining quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will seek to provide broadly 
equivalent value and replicate, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of remuneration 
foregone. 
Any previous outstanding share awards which the executive holds will be valued using a recognised valuation 
methodology by an independent party.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using the Company’s then current long term incentive plan 
to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of this plan if necessary and as permitted 
under the Listing Rules.
Relocation policies In instances where the new executive is relocated from one work location to another, the Company will provide 
compensation to reflect the cost of relocation for the executive in cases where they are expected to spend 
significant time away from their country of domicile in accordance with its normal relocation package for 
employees.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but will take into consideration 
any cost of living differences; housing allowance; and schooling in accordance with the Company’s normal 
relocation package for employees.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
81
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Service contracts and payment for loss of office 
When setting notice periods, the Committee has regard to market practice and corporate governance best practice. 
Notice periods will not be greater than 12 months. The table below summarises the service contracts and letters of 
appointments for the directors.
Director
Date of contract/ 
letter of appointment
Notice period by Company  
and director
Executive
David Lockwood 9 July 2012 12 months
Non-executive
Dr Martin Read 28 February 2014 6 months
Paula Bell 28 February 2012 N/A
Jack Boyer 2 May 2013 N/A
Sir Christopher Hum 4 December 2006 N/A
Professor Michael Kelly 21 June 2006 N/A
Mike Parker (appointed with effect from 3 March 2015) 2 March 2015 N/A
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but are appointed under letters of appointment which 
provide for a review after an initial three year term with the possibility of annual renewal.
All service contracts and letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Company’s registered office and at 
the AGM.
When determining any loss of office payment for a departing director the Committee will always seek to minimise 
cost to the Company whilst complying with the contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place 
at the time. The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good 
faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation); or by way 
of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an executive director’s office 
or employment.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
82
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The table below sets out, for each element of total remuneration, the Company’s policy on payment for loss of office 
in respect of executive directors and any discretion available to the Committee.
Element Approach Committee discretion
Base salary, benefits 
and pension
There will be no compensation for normal resignation or in the event 
of termination by the Company due to misconduct. 
In other circumstances, executive directors will be entitled to receive 
payment in lieu of notice equivalent to the salary payments that 
they would have received if still employed by the Company for a 
maximum of a 12 month period.
This is payable in a lump sum or in instalments which would be 
subject to mitigation.
None
Annual Performance 
Incentive Scheme
Where an executive director’s employment is terminated after the 
end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the 
executive may be eligible for an annual incentive award for that 
performance year subject to an assessment based on performance 
achieved over the period. No award will be made in the event of 
gross misconduct.
Where an executive director’s employment is terminated during 
a performance year, a pro-rata annual incentive award for the 
period worked in that performance year may be payable at 
the Committee’s discretion subject to an assessment based on 
performance achieved over the period and provided the individual 
is a “good leaver”. 
The good leaver definition is the same as for the 2015 LTIP below. 
Deferred shares will vest in accordance with the regular vesting 
period, except for where an executive director’s employment 
is terminated for cause or any other reason determined by the 
Committee (i.e. bad leaver reasons) where they will lapse. In addition 
deferred shares will vest in full on a change of control.
The Committee has discretion to 
determine whether an individual is a 
good leaver and therefore whether a 
pro-rated bonus will be payable for 
the year of cessation, and whether any 
deferred shares will vest.
Long-term 
incentives
The treatment of unvested long-term incentive awards is governed by the rules of the relevant incentive plan, 
as approved by shareholders. See table below for further details.
Other contractual 
obligations
There are no other contractual provisions agreed prior to 27 June 2012.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
83
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Summary of Company’s policy on payment for loss of office in respect of executive directors and any discretion 
available to the Committee with regard to long-term incentives.
Approach Committee discretion
Cessation of employment
Laird PLC 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
On termination of employment before the vesting date, all unvested 
awards will lapse, unless the following circumstances apply:
• Death.
• Ill-health, injury or disability,
• Redundancy, 
• Retirement (with the agreement of the Company),
• The company employing the participant ceasing to be a member 
of the Group, 
• Transfer of the business or part of the business to which the 
participant’s employment relates to a person who is not a 
member of the Group, or 
• any reason, permitted by the Committee in its absolute 
discretion in any particular case except where termination is for 
dishonesty, fraud, misconduct or other circumstances justifying 
summary dismissal.
If an individual leaves under a circumstance described above, the 
executive will continue to hold the award which will vest on the 
normal vesting date based on the achievement of performance 
targets. The award will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the 
performance period which has elapsed at the time of cessation.
The Committee has absolute discretion to determine that the 
reason for termination is classified in a manner described in the 
previous column.
The Committee can determine that the number of shares that 
vest is a higher or lower number than calculated, provided that 
this number does not exceed the total number of shares subject 
to the award.
The Committee has the discretion to determine that the end of 
the performance period is the date of cessation, whether and 
to what extent the performance measures have been satisfied 
or waived, whether to pro-rate the number of vested shares 
to reflect the performance period completed and whether to 
accelerate the vesting date to the date on which the Committee 
makes its final determination of the number of shares which 
vest. 
It should be noted that it is the Committee’s policy only to 
apply such discretion if the circumstances at the time are, 
in its opinion, sufficiently exceptional, and to provide a full 
explanation to shareholders where discretion is exercised.
Further the Committee does not currently intend to waive any 
performance measures and its normal practice will be to pro-
rate for time.
Change of Control
Laird PLC 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or voluntary 
winding-up of the Company (other than in the nature of an internal 
reorganisation), awards will vest and options may be exercised for a 
limited period following the relevant event. 
The performance period will be deemed to have ended on the date 
of the relevant event and awards will be pro-rated to reflect the time 
period and performance up to the date of the relevant event.
The Committee has the following discretions where it deems it 
impracticable for the performance period to end on the date of 
the relevant event:
• to determine that the performance period should end on an 
earlier date;
• to determine that an award should vest or become 
exercisable on a date earlier than the date of the relevant 
event; and
• if the Committee considers that a transaction such as a 
demerger or delisting might affect the current or future value 
of an award, to allow awards to vest or become exercisable 
for a period.
In exceptional circumstances only, the Committee may consider 
whether to disapply full pro-rating for time and performance. It 
is the Committee’s policy in normal circumstances to measure 
performance at the date of the relevant event and pro-rate the 
number of shares to the amount of the performance period 
completed on the occurrence of the event.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company in developing policy
In setting the remuneration policy for directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of Laird are taken into 
account, including any base salary increases awarded. The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration 
structure for management level tiers below the executive directors, and uses this information to ensure consistency 
of approach throughout the Company. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
84
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 However, with 67% of employees in Asia, 21% of employees in North America and 12% in Europe, only broad trends 
are considered. In 2014 salary increases for management level employees ranged from zero to 31% depending on 
several factors, including the region where they work and individual performance. Although the Committee takes 
into account the pay and conditions of other employees, the Company did not consult with employees when 
drawing up the policy report.
During the year the Company reviewed the benefits and incentives offered to employees with a focus on 
encouraging employee share ownership. Following this review the Company is proposing to introduce two 
new arrangements:
• A new long term incentive programme for the senior leaders (the MTIP). Awards under the new incentive 
programme are subject to the satisfaction of Group performance targets.
• New global employee share purchase plans which will be available to the majority of employees depending on the 
country where they work. 
Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping 
remuneration policy and practice. Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting remuneration 
strategy and the Committee commits to consulting with key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its 
remuneration policy.
During the year the Committee conducted a review of its executive remuneration policy. The Chairman of the 
Committee consulted with the Company’s key Shareholders along with the Investment Association (IA) and the 
Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS). The process by which this consultation was undertaken is set out in the 
table below.
Steps Details Timeframe
1. Advisor The Committee’s advisor, PwC, was asked to conduct a review of the current 
remuneration arrangements against market and best practice and develop 
alternatives where required
June – July 2014
2. Proposal review PwC presented the alternatives to the Committee and a number of discussions 
were held to refine the alternatives. 
Management were also consulted during this period.
August – September 2014
3 .  S h a r eh o ld er 
consultation
The Committee Chairman and Chairman of the Board met with the top 5 
shareholders, and the Committee Chairman met with IA and ISS. Additionally 
the Committee Chairman wrote to the next 8 shareholders setting out 
details of the proposed revised remuneration policy. Comments were fully 
considered.
October 2014 – January 2015
4.  Approval of new 
policy
The proposed change to the remuneration policy will be put to shareholders 
at the AGM on 8 May 2015.
8 May 2015
Elements of previous policy that continue to apply:
The following subsisting arrangements will continue to operate on the terms and conditions set out in the 
relevant Rules.
2003 Executive Share Option Plan, 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan
Objective and 
link to strategy
Operation Maximum award Performance measures 
and assessment
Incentivises the 
achievement of 
long-term financial 
performance and 
sustainable returns 
to shareholders in a 
way that aligns the 
interests of executives 
and shareholders.
The outstanding awards under the previous 
long-term incentive plans will continue to 
form part of the remuneration policy until 
they vest, are exercised or lapse. 
The Rules of the Plans, previously approved 
by Shareholders, will continue to apply.
Any awards made prior to the adoption of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy set out 
in this report may be paid out, subject to the 
terms of those awards and achievement of 
the relevant performance measures.
Outstanding and 
unvested awards that 
have been granted to the 
executive directors are 
summarised on page 91.
Relative TSR and EPS targets. 
The Committee has the discretion 
to adjust targets or performance 
measures for any exceptional 
events that may occur during the 
year.
Further details on the 
performance measures for the 
outstanding awards are set 
out in note 30 to the financial 
statements.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
85
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 This Annual Report on Remuneration contains details of how the Company’s remuneration policy for directors was 
implemented during the financial year ended on 31 December 2014. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the 
Regulations). An advisory resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the AGM. The information 
on pages 86 to 92 up to the Performance Graph and Table has been audited. 
Single total figure of remuneration – Executive directors
The remuneration of executive directors showing the breakdown between components with comparative figures for 
the prior year is shown below. Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
Executive director (£’000)
Base  
salary
Taxable 
 benefits
1
Annual  
bonus
Long-term 
incentives
2
Pension/
Cash in lieu of 
pension Total
David Lockwood 2014 465 18 240 – 116 839
2013 438 14 270 – 109 831
Jonathan Silver 2014 345 21 164 673 138
3
1,341
2013 341 21 173 498 148
3
1,181
Notes:
1. Benefits include car and fuel, or a car allowance, and health insurance.
2. The value of long-term incentives is calculated using the closing mid-market share price on the later of the date the performance conditions are 
met or the minimum period for holding is met. On 21 March 2014, 187,917 LTIPs (nil-cost awards) awarded on 21 March 2011 met their performance 
conditions (83.78% of the original award). The relevant share price was 292.7p giving a value of £550,033. On 21 March 2014, 86,366 market-value 
share options awarded on 21 March 2011, with an exercise price of 149.8p became exercisable (51.34% of the original award). The share price on 
21 March 2014 was 292.7p giving a net value of £123,417. Further details are shown on page 88. The value of shares vesting in 2013 was calculated 
using a share price of 201.6p for LTIPs and 204p for share options. Details are set out in the 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration. 
3. This includes the cash in lieu of pension amount and the single pension figure. See more details on page 89.
Additional details in respect of single total figure table
Taxable benefits
Benefits comprise the provision of a car and fuel, or a car allowance, life, disability and health insurance. 
The Company provided executive directors with the following benefits during the year:
Executive director (£’000)
Company car or  
cash allowance
Health  
insurance
David Lockwood
2014 11 3 
2013 11 3
Jonathan Silver
2014 18 3
2013 18 3
David Lockwood’s taxable benefits for 2014 included a sum of £3,759 where the Company paid for his wife to 
accompany him on an overseas business trip.
Annual Report on 
Remuneration
86
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Outcome of the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme for the year ended 31 December 2014
The performance targets, actual performance achievement and resulting bonus payments are summarised below. 
No part of the bonus was deferred.
Performance 
measures
Targets Actual 
performance 
outcome
Underlying profit 
before tax (PBT)
Weighting 70%
Maximum: Up to 70% of salary based on achievement of the objective for underlying 
PBT (adjusted for any acquisitions and disposals during the year) of £65.4m. 
Threshold: If the threshold of 95% (£62.13m) of objective is met then 20% of salary is 
payable with a pro-rata amount payable for between 95% and 100% of objective being 
achieved. 
An additional 10% of salary was payable if the underlying PBT was 110% of Objective. 
However the maximum overall bonus could not exceed 100%. 
£62.62m of bonus 
PBT 
1
 (27.5% of 
salary payable for 
both Executive 
directors) 
Working capital 
metrics 
Weighting 10%
Up to a maximum of 10% of salary based on management of trade working capital, 
taking into account Days Sales Outstanding (‘DSO’), Days Payable Outstanding (‘DPO’) 
and inventory turns against those budgeted and taking into account how they compare 
with the previous year. 
0% of salary is payable for achieving none of the targets and 10% payable for achieving 
all the targets.
Targets partially 
achieved. (5% of 
salary payable for 
both Executive 
directors)
2
Strategic 
objectives 
Weighting 20%
Four strategic objectives were set for the year for the Chief Executive and the Chief 
Financial Officer. The common strategic objectives for both directors were:
To produce a group level strategy for the next 3-5 years for approval by the Board. 
To demonstrate an improvement in EH&S performance with a reduction in reportable 
accidents of 5% year-on-year.
The Chief Executive had two further objectives which were: 
To increase customer diversification measured by number of customers as follows: 
• For customers >$25m maintain level i.e. five customers;
• For customers $10-$25m increase from eight customers to nine;
• For customers $1-10m increase from 57 customers to 63; and 
Drive One Laird revenue synergies from the business units/product lines.
The Chief Financial Officer’s strategic objectives were: 
To achieve the finance business partnering model phased on a quarterly basis as 
measured by the Chief Executive, as part of the quarterly finance function review; and 
The achievement of a medium to long-term debt financing for both Bank and Private 
Placement of debt.
0% of salary is payable for achieving none of the targets and 20% is payable for 
achieving all the targets.
Achieved
Reduction not 
achieved 
Achieved see KPI on 
page 3
Achieved
75% achieved
Achieved
Notes:
1. The Underlying PBT has been adjusted for certain foreign exchange results giving a lower PBT for the bonus calculation.
2. DPO metric was met but the DSO and stock turns were not as good as budget. Each metric was better than the previous year. Some of the 
strategic objectives are not fully disclosed for reasons of commercial sensitivity, for example disclosing the actual number of DSO and DPO days 
in the working capital metrics.
3.  Although not required to do so under the Rules of the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme, David Lockwood has advised the Committee 
that he intends to use the net proceeds of his bonus in respect of 2014 to purchase shares in the Company as soon as practicable after 
the announcement of the Company’s Results on 3 March 2015. Jonathan Silver, who will be retiring in May 2015, has already exceeded the 
shareholding requirement and will therefore not purchase any additional shares.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
87
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Taking into account the performance against the targets and the underlying financial performance of Laird, the 
Remuneration Committee determined to make the following bonus awards for 2014:
Performance measures
Chief Executive – David Lockwood Chief Financial Officer – Jonathan Silver
Maximum 
opportunity 
(% of salary)
% of 
salary 
 paid
Bonus 
paid 
(£)
Maximum 
opportunity 
(% of salary)
% of 
salary  
 paid
Bonus 
paid 
(£)
Underlying profit before tax 70% 27.5% 132,000 70% 27.5% 94,875
Working capital metrics 10% 5% 24,000 10% 5% 17,250
Strategic objectives 20% 17.5% 84,000 20% 15% 51,750
Total 100% 50% 240,000 100% 47.5% 163,875
Long-term incentives
The awards granted in 2011 to Jonathan Silver under the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and 2003 Executive Share 
Option Plan vested in 2014. 
Award
Performance measures 
(see full details below)
Weighting  
(% of award subject to 
performance measure)
Number of  
awards granted
Number of  
awards vesting
Value of vested 
awards (£)
3
2003 LTIP awards granted 
in 2011
Continuing Earnings per 
share
25% 224,299 187,917 550,033
Total shareholder return 75%
2003 ESOP awards 
granted in 2011
Continuing Earnings per 
share
75% 168,224 86,366 123,417
Total shareholder return 25%
The table below summarises the performance measures and the extent to which the performance measures 
were satisfied:
Performance measures
Threshold 
 performance 
 required
Maximum  
performance  
required
Incentive value  
for threshold and max 
performance 
(% award)
Measurement  
period
Actual  
performance  
outcome
Earnings per share 18.3p 22.4p 30% – 100% 3 years 18.6p
Total shareholder return Median Upper quartile 30% – 100% 3 years TSR met in full
Notes
1. Total Shareholder Return and Continuing Earnings per Share were both used as performance measures for both the LTIP and ESOP Awards. 
The Comparator group for TSR was a group of 20 companies (set out in the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report). The TSR measurement period 
was the three years ending 21 February 2014. In addition, the Committee must be satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the 
Company’s underlying financial performance.
2. Earnings Per Share is calculated with reference to underlying earnings per share before exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing 
of financial instruments and acquisition transaction costs as stated in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts of the Company.
3. The value of shares is calculated using the closing middle market share price of 292.7p on 21 March 2014, the date the awards became exercisable, 
less the exercise price of 149.8p per share. 
4. No discretion was exercised by the Committee.
5. For the awards granted in 2011, and all outstanding awards, the EPS performance measure is assessed based on year-end results. However, the 
TSR performance measure is assessed a number of months post the financial year end and is subject to an underlying financial performance 
condition until the date of vesting. Therefore, vesting is unknown at the year end.
6. The TSR performance condition for the LTIP and Option awards granted to Jonathan Silver and David Lockwood in 2012 will be measured as 
at 2 April 2015 and 13 August 2015 respectively. In addition, the Committee must be satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in 
the Company’s underlying performance which is assessed at the date of vesting. The Committee believes it would be inconsistent to split the 
performance conditions for these awards and therefore to show true comparability between annual grants the figures are shown for the awards 
which vest in the financial year.
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
88
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Total pension entitlements
The Company operates a defined benefit scheme (which is closed to new members) and provides either a 
contribution to a personal pension scheme; a contribution to the Laird defined contribution scheme; or a cash 
allowance in lieu of pension benefits. The following payments were made:
Executive director % of base pay Contribution to a personal pension scheme or Cash in Lieu
2014 
 £’000
2013  
£’000
David Lockwood 25% 116 110
Jonathan Silver 40% 138 136
Jonathan Silver is a member of the Group contributory defined benefit scheme but ceased to accrue further pension 
benefits with effect from 6 April 2006. However, his benefits accrued at that date remain linked to any growth in his 
pensionable pay. No additional benefits are payable under the defined benefit scheme on early retirement.
Executive director Age at 31.12.14
Accrued pension  
at 31.12.14
1
  
£’000 p.a.
Single pension  
figure at 31.12.14
2
  
£’000
Transfer value of 
accrued pension at 
31.12.14
3
  
£’000
Jonathan Silver 57 168 Nil 5,549
Notes
1. Payable from normal retirement date of age 60.
2. The single pension figure is calculated as 20 x (closing pension value – uplifted opening pension value) less director’s contributions.
3. The transfer value of accrued benefits is calculated on the cash equivalent transfer value basis agreed by the Trustees on 2 July 2013.
Single total figure of remuneration – Non-executive directors
The remuneration of non-executive directors showing the breakdown between components, with comparative 
figures for the prior year, is shown below. Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
Non-executive director (£’000) Basic Fees Additional Fees Other Total Fees
Dr Martin Read
1
2014 117.4 117.4
Nigel Keen
2
2014 64 9 73
2013 190 – 26 216
Paula Bell
3
2014 44 7 51
2013 44 7 – 51
Jack Boyer
4
2014 44 7 51
2013 29 3 – 32
Sir Christopher Hum
5
2014 44 – 44
2013 44 – – 44
Professor Michael Kelly 2014 44 – 44
2013 44 – – 44
Notes
1. Martin Read was appointed as a director with effect from 28 February 2014 and as Chairman with effect from 2 May 2014.
2. Nigel Keen retired as Chairman on 2 May 2014. Under an arrangement between the Company and Imperialise Limited, Nigel Keen was retained 
to act as Chairman of the Company. Nigel Keen also acted as Chairman of the trustees of a Laird pension scheme for which he received no 
additional remuneration. Nigel Keen’s fees for his services, for which he must account to Imperialise Limited, were £190,000 per annum. 
Imperialise was responsible for Nigel Keen’s National Insurance (“NI”) and was paid a sum equivalent to the NI on those fees of £8,764 
(2013, £26,220), for which it accounts to Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (“HMRC”) whereas for the other non-executive directors, 
who are paid through Laird’s payroll, NI is paid directly to HMRC.
3. Additional fees received as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
4.  Additional fees for Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Appointed 7 May 2013 and Chairman of Remuneration Committee on 
1 August 2013.
5. Sir Christopher Hum’s services as a non-executive director are supplied by Qilin Consulting Limited.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
89
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Awards under the Laird PLC 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan
The table below sets out the details of the long-term incentive awards granted under the Laird PLC 2013 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan in 2014 where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance measures that 
will be tested in 2017. Non-executive directors do not receive awards under the plan.
Executive director
Type of  
option awarded
Basis of  
award
Face value of 
award made
1
 
£
Number of  
shares
Percentage 
of award 
receivable 
for threshold 
performance
End of 
performance 
period
Exercise  
price  
p
David Lockwood Nil-Cost Award 100% of salary 449,997 148,514 25% 4 March 2017 Nil
Market Value Option 100% of salary 449,997 148,514 25% 4 March 2017 303
Jonathan Silver Nil-Cost Award 100% of salary 344,999 113,861 25% 4 March 2017 Nil
Market Value Option 75% of salary 258,750 85,396 25% 4 March 2017 303
Notes
1. Calculated as maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures are met multiplied by the closing mid-market share price 
on 3 March 2014, the day prior to grant, of 303 pence per share.
Details of performance measures are as set out below:
Type of award Performance measure Measurement period Performance target Vesting level
Nil Cost Awards Total Shareholder Return 
relative to the FTSE 250 
(excluding financial services 
sector companies and 
investment trusts)
1 
Three years from  
date of grant
Upper Quartile Full Vesting
Median to  
Upper Quartile
Pro-rata on a  
straight-line basis between 
25%  
and full Vesting
Below Median Nil
Market Value Options Average Annual Growth in 
Continuing Earnings Per 
Share
2
Three financial years 
between 31 December 2013 
and 31 December 2016
12.5% p.a. Full Vesting
Between 7.5%  
and 12.5% p.a.
Pro-rata on a  
straight-line basis between 
25%  
and full Vesting
7.5% p.a. Threshold 25% Vesting
Notes
1. In addition, a nil-cost award will not vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Company’s 
underlying financial performance.
2. Earnings per share is calculated with reference to underlying earnings per share before exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing 
of financial instruments and acquisition transaction costs as stated in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Payments to past directors
No payments to past directors were made during the year, other than regular pension payments under the unfunded 
retirement benefits scheme (UURB) to former directors, as previously disclosed.
Payments for loss of office
No payments for loss of office were made during the year. Details of the leaving service payments for Jonathan 
Silver are set out on page 94.
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
90
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Outside appointments
The Board believes that there can be significant benefits, to both the Company and the individual, from executive 
directors accepting non-executive directorships of companies outside the Group. The Board takes into account the 
likely time commitment for such appointments prior to approving them. During the year the fees which the executive 
directors received, which they are entitled to retain, were as follows:
Executive director Company Fee
David Lockwood Knowledge Transfer Network Ltd. £30,000
Jonathan Silver INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc £24,000
Statement of directors’ shareholdings and share interests
Directors’ share interests and, where applicable, achievement of shareholding requirements are set out below. 
All directors are required to hold a minimum of 1,000 shares under the Articles of Association. Executive directors 
are currently expected to retain, as shares, all of the after-tax profit on the gains made on the vesting of share awards 
and the exercise of share options, until they have acquired shares equal to 100% of base salary. Following approval 
of the new remuneration policy at the 2015 AGM, the shareholding policy for the Chief Executive will be increased to 
200% of base salary.
Director Shareholding
2003 LTIP/2003 ESOP and 2013 LTIP interests
Total 
interests 
held at 31 
December 
2014
Interests subject to 
conditions
Vested but 
unexercised
Exercised during the 
year
Shares 
required 
to be 
held % of 
salary
Number 
of shares 
required 
to hold
1
Number of 
beneficially 
owned 
shares
4
Shareholding 
requirement
2003  
LTIPs/ 
2013 LTIP 
Nil-Cost 
Awards
2003 
Options/ 
2013 LTIP 
Market 
Value 
Options
2003 
LTIPs/ 
2013 LTIP 
Nil-Cost 
Awards
2003 
Options/ 
2013 LTIP 
Market 
Value 
Options
2003  
LTIPs/ 
2013 LTIP 
Nil-Cost 
Awards
2003 
Options/ 
2013 LTIP 
Market 
Value 
Options
David 
Lockwood 100% 154,340 25,077 No
2
545,093 545,093 – – – – 1,090,186
Jonathan Silver 100% 110,932 682,573 Yes 429,538 322,154 – 172,803 187,917 199,084 924,495
Dr Martin Read – 1,000 16,082 Yes – – – – – – –
Paula Bell – 1,000 3,000 Yes – – – – – – –
Jack Boyer – 1,000 10,000 Yes – – – – – – –
Sir Christopher 
Hum – 1,000 7,000 Yes – – – – – – –
Professor 
Michael Kelly – 1,000 2,250 Yes – – – – – – –
Nigel Keen – 1,000 523,245 Yes
5
– – – – – – –
Notes
1. All directors are required to hold a minimum of 1,000 shares under the Articles of Association.
2.  Executive directors are expected to retain, as shares, all of the after-tax profit on the gains made on the vesting of share awards and the exercise 
of share options, until they have acquired shares equal to 100% of base salary. David Lockwood only joined in August 2012 and therefore has not 
yet built up shares equal to the requirement.
3. The value of shares is calculated using the closing mid-market price on 31 December 2014 of 311p.
4.  Beneficial interests include shares held directly or indirectly by connected persons.
5. As at 2 May 2014, the date Nigel Keen retired.
6. There have been no changes in the shareholdings of the directors between 31 December 2014 and the date of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
91
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The following table sets out the details of the vested awards that were exercised during the year: 
Executive director
Type of  
award
Exercised  
during  
the year
Exercise Price  
of Exercised 
Options
Market value  
on Exercise
Gain on  
Exercise
David Lockwood N/A N/A – – –
Jonathan Silver 2003 Options 112,718
1
235.08p 309.336p £83,700
2003 Options 86,366
2
149.8p 312.8895p £140,854
2003 LTIPs 187,917
3
NIL 301.0307p £565,688
Notes
1. These options were awarded on 12.3.04 at an exercise price of 235.08p and met 100% of the performance conditions and became exercisable on 
12.3.07. They were exercised on 5.3.14. 98,657 were sold at 309.336p and the balance of 14,061 retained.
2. These options were awarded on 21.3.11 at an exercise price of 149.8p and met 51.34% of the performance conditions. They were exercised on 
23.10.14. 62,696 shares were sold at 312.8895p and the balance of 23,670 retained.
3. The original award of 224,299 shares met 83.78% of the performance condition and therefore 187,917 shares vested on 21.3.14. These were 
exercised on 27.3.14, 88,499 shares were sold at 301.0307p and the balance of 99,418 retained.
Dilution limits
The Company operates its share schemes within the Investment Association’s guidelines on dilution. No share 
award may be granted if, as a result, the aggregate number of shares issued or transferred from treasury during 
the previous ten years under all employee share schemes established by the Company would exceed ten per cent 
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company on that date or, in the case of all discretionary employee share 
schemes, five per cent. 
In accordance with the Regulations, the following information is not subject to audit.
Performance graph and table
The graph below shows the Company’s performance, measured by Total Shareholder Return (TSR), compared with 
the performance of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) and the FTSE All Share Technology Hardware & 
Equipment Sector. The Company considers these the most relevant indices for TSR measurement since both are 
relevant to Laird’s stock market classification, investor base and business activities.
Total shareholder return for the last six years ended 31 December 2014
Dec 09 Dec 08 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14
Laird FTSE 250 ex-Investment Trusts FTSE All-Share Technology Hardware & Equipment 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Source: Datastream as of 24 February 2015.
Total shareholder return assumes dividend reinvested into the stock/index.
92
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Chief Executive’s remuneration package over the past six years
Year Name
Single figure 
of total 
remuneration 
(£’000)
4
Bonus pay-
out (as % 
maximum 
opportunity)
Long term 
incentive 
vesting 
rates (as % 
maximum 
opportunity)
2014 David Lockwood 839 50% 0
2013 David Lockwood 831 60% 0
2012
David Lockwood 475 47.5% 0
Nigel Keen 450 N/A N/A
2011 Nigel Keen 218 N/A N/A
2011 Peter Hill 1,354 55% 0
2010 Peter Hill 1,370 55% 0
2009 Peter Hill 926 10% 50%
Notes
1. David Lockwood was appointed an employee with effect from 2 July 2012 and became Chief Executive on 13 August 2012.
2. Nigel Keen was Executive Chairman between 26 November 2011 and 13 August 2012. His fee as Chairman was £175,000 p.a. which was increased 
to £609,000p.a. for a temporary period whilst acting as Executive Chairman. With effect from 13 August 2012 it became £190,000 p.a.
3. Peter Hill ceased to be a director with effect from 25 November 2011 but remained an employee on ill-health leave until 10 August 2012. 
The figure for 2011 shows what he was paid for the full year.
4. Includes base salary, taxable benefits, bonus, long-term incentive awards that vested during the year and cash in lieu of pension.
Percentage change in the Chief Executive’s remuneration
Laird is a global company with approximately 60 UK employees and four of its most senior executives are not UK 
employees. Due to the multinational nature of the Company’s workforce and the fact that 67% of employees are 
based in Asia, the pay structure operated in respect of the vast majority of its employees is significantly different 
from that applicable to the Chief Executive, who is UK-based. Therefore, the Committee’s view is that the most 
meaningful comparison of the percentage change in the Chief Executive’s remuneration is considered to be the 12 
(2013, 11) senior executives below Board level. Seven of these are US employees, four are British and one is Swedish. 
The table below compares the percentage increase in the Chief Executive’s pay (including salary and fees, taxable 
benefits and annual bonus) with that of the chosen comparator group. 
Year on year change (%)
Chief Executive 
(%)
Average Employee pay in 
comparator group (%)
Base salary 6.67 10.5
Taxable benefits 0 9
Bonus (11.1) (100)
Notes
1. Data for 11 employees was used for 2013 and 12 employees for 2014.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
93
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Relative importance of the spend on pay
The table below sets out the overall spend on pay for all employees compared with the returns distributed 
to shareholders: 
Significant distributions
2013 
(£m)
2014 
(£m) % change
Overall spend on pay for employees including executive directors 117.1 124.1 6.0
Distributions to shareholders by way of dividends 32.1 33.4 4.0
The above figures are taken from notes 9 and 15 to the financial statements.
Directors Leaving the Board – Jonathan Silver
As previously announced, Jonathan Silver will be stepping down as Chief Financial Officer at the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 8 May 2015 (“the Leaving Date”) after nearly 29 years with the Company, 21 of those as 
a director.
In line with the Committee’s policy, the Committee considered Jonathan Silver’s sustained performance and 
contribution to the Company. The package agreed by the Committee set out below is consistent with his contract 
of employment and the Committee’s normal policy for good leavers.
Jonathan Silver will receive his salary and contractual benefits up to and including the Leaving Date. He will receive 
a payment in lieu of any days accrued but unused holiday entitlement as at the Leaving Date. Jonathan Silver will 
retain the use of his company car and retain BUPA private medical cover until 31 December 2015.
Under his employment contract, Jonathan Silver has a 12 months’ notice period which commenced on 1 January 
2015. He will work four months and eight days of his notice period, until the 8 May 2015. The Company will make 
a leaving payment of £398,435.83, to take account of Jonathan Silver’s unworked notice period and in order 
to honour the contractual entitlements under his terms and conditions of employment. This payment comprises:
• Salary element of £222,989.83;
• 40% of his pro-rated base salary, in lieu of future pension accrual under the defined benefit pension scheme 
(£89,196); and
• 25% of base salary in lieu of bonus for the period of notice (£86,250).
Jonathan Silver was entitled to receive a bonus payment in respect of services rendered during the bonus year 
ending 31 December 2014. The amount payable to Jonathan Silver for the year ended is £163,875 as disclosed 
in the single figure table on page 69. He will not receive an annual bonus in respect of the bonus year ending 
31 December 2015.
Jonathan Silver’s awards under the Company’s share incentive plans will be treated in accordance with the rules 
of those plans as follows:
Plan Treatment
2003 Executive Share 
Option Scheme
To the extent that the performance conditions have been, or will be, met, Jonathan Silver’s outstanding options 
granted in March 2005, April 2006, March 2011 and April 2012 remain exercisable for 12 months after the Leaving Date, 
save to the extent that they lapse earlier under the normal operation of the scheme rules. 
2003 Long Term Incentive 
Plan
To the extent that the performance conditions are met, Jonathan Silver’s outstanding nil-cost option granted in April 
2012 will be exercisable for 12 months after the Leaving Date. 
2013 Long Term Incentive 
Plan
Jonathan Silver’s nil-cost option granted in June 2013 will be exercisable for 12 months after the Leaving Date and both 
his nil-cost option granted in March 2014 and his market-value options granted in June 2013 and March 2014 will vest 
in accordance with their original vesting schedule. All awards will be exercisable to the extent that the performance 
conditions are met and will be time-apportioned to the Leaving Date.
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
94
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Committee and its Advisors and Statement of Implementation 
of Policy for 2015
The details surrounding the Remuneration Committee and its Advisors and the Statement of Implementation 
of Policy for 2015 can be found in ‘Our Remuneration at a glance’ on page 68.
Statement of voting at the 2014 Annual General Meeting
The table below shows the binding vote approving the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the advisory vote 
on the Annual Report on Remuneration at the AGM held on 2 May 2014. 
2014 AGM Resolution
Votes for and 
at discretion 
% of votes 
cast Votes against
% of votes 
cast
Votes 
withheld
% of  
Issued share 
capital
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 202,911,120 94.74 9,797,274 4.57 1,471,867 0.69
Annual Report on Remuneration 209,787,636 97.95 4,346,595 2.03 46,030 0.02
The votes on the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration and the new Directors’ Remuneration Policy are due to take 
place at the AGM to be held on 8 May 2015.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Laird PLC.
By Order of the Board
Jack Boyer  
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
2 March 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
95
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 This section contains additional information which the 
directors are required by law and regulation to include 
within the Annual Report. This section along with the 
information from pages 1 to 95 (which are incorporated 
herein by reference) constitutes the Directors’ Report for 
the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
Future Developments
The Company has chosen, in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 section 414C(11) to include 
the disclosure of likely future developments in the 
Strategic Report.
Greenhouse gas emissions and gender diversity
Information on environmental matters and disclosures 
relating to diversity, gender and human rights are 
contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Results and dividends
Underlying profit before tax was £63.2 million  
(2013, £60.1 million) and is analysed in note 14 on 
page 126. Profit for the year after taxation was 
£50.2 million (2013, £30.8 million). The recommended 
final dividend is 8.27p per ordinary share, to be paid 
on 3 July 2015 to ordinary shareholders registered as 
members of the Company at the close of business on 
5 June 2015, making a total dividend for the year of 
12.5 pence per ordinary share. 
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Company’s AGM will be held on Friday 8 May 2015. 
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM 
are set out in the Notice of Meeting which is provided to 
all shareholders.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be 
amended by special resolution at a general meeting 
of shareholders. No amendments to the Articles of 
Association of the Company are being proposed at 
the AGM.
Significant contracts
Laird has arrangements with a number of major 
customers and suppliers whereby regional or 
global terms of supply are agreed. However, these 
arrangements do not amount to contractual obligations 
to purchase and supply as these are covered by 
individual purchase orders.
Share capital
The Company has only one class of share and the rights 
attached to each share are identical. Details of the rights 
and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association which are available 
on the Company’s website at www.laird-plc.com. 
The Company may refuse to register any transfer of 
any share which is not a fully paid share. At a general 
meeting of the Company, every member has one vote 
on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share 
held. Details of the voting procedure, including deadlines 
for exercising voting rights, are set out in the Notice of 
Meeting for the 2015 Annual General Meeting. 
At 31 December 2014 the issued share capital of 
the Company was 267,907,000 ordinary shares of 
28.125p each. Details of the share capital and options 
outstanding as at 31 December 2014 are shown in note 
29 on page 143.
At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, shareholders 
agreed to the renewal of the directors’ power to allot 
shares, or grant rights for or to convert any security 
into shares, in the Company; the disapplication of 
pre-emption rights and authorised the Company to 
make purchases of up to 10% of its ordinary shares 
on the London Stock Exchange. As at 2 March 2015, 
no shares have been purchased pursuant to this 
authority. Shareholders will be requested to renew these 
authorities at the 2015 Annual General Meeting and 
details are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Directors
The directors of the Company as at the date of the 
approval of this Annual Report are shown on pages 50 
and 51.
All were directors throughout the year to 31 December 
2014, with the exception of Dr Martin Read who joined 
the Board on 28 February 2014 and Nigel Keen who 
retired as a director on 2 May 2014. The Company 
announced on 22 September 2014 that Jonathan Silver 
will be stepping down as Chief Financial Officer at the 
Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2015. 
As announced on 29 January 2015, Mike Parker will be 
appointed a non-executive director with effect from 
3 March 2015. Mike will become the Senior Independent 
Director and be a member of the Nomination, Audit and 
Remuneration Committees.
Election and Re-election of directors
The Company’s Articles of Association (which require 
shareholder approval for any amendments), set out the 
powers of the directors and the regulations for their 
appointment and removal. In accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, all of the directors of 
the Company will offer themselves for election or re-
election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting. The Board 
is satisfied that each director is qualified for re-election 
Other Statutory Information
96
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to 
the Board.
None of the non-executive directors offering 
themselves for election or re-election has a service 
contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 
Biographical details and reasons for reappointment for 
the non-executive directors are given in the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ Interests and share options
In the year to 31 December 2014, no director had 
a material interest in any third party contract of 
significance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 
Directors’ shareholdings at 31 December 2014 are shown 
within the Directors’ remuneration report on page 91.
Details of directors’ share options are provided in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on page 91.
Directors’ Conflicts of Interest
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public 
companies, subject to the provisions of the Company’s 
Articles of Association, to authorise conflicts and 
potential conflicts of interest, where appropriate. 
The authorisation shall be effective only if the matter is 
agreed to without the vote of the director who is subject 
to such conflict having been counted. The authority for 
directors to act in situations of conflict and the rules 
governing their duties in such situations are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association. A register of conflicts 
or potential conflicts of interest has been prepared and it 
is available at every Board Meeting. 
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance was purchased 
and maintained by the Company during the year.
Directors’ Indemnities
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company 
has indemnified the directors in respect of proceedings 
brought by third parties and such indemnification was in 
place throughout the year.
Between 2005 and 2008, five of Laird’s final salary 
pension schemes were merged. The trustees of the 
schemes, including Nigel Keen who was Chairman of 
the trustees of the surviving scheme until 1 July 2014, 
received an indemnity from the Company against any 
claim or other liability arising out of or in connection with 
the pension schemes and their agreement to the merger 
and such indemnification was in place throughout 
the year.
Accountability and audit
Statements of the respective responsibilities of the 
directors and auditor are set out on pages 100 and 101.
Change of control arrangements
Two employees of the Company have long-standing 
agreements which provide for compensation, in 
addition to the contractual notice period, of up to 
a maximum of two years’ base salary for loss of 
employment which occurs as a result of a takeover 
offer or scheme. This additional compensation reduces 
pro rata to zero over the two years following the date 
of change of control. Three other employees of the 
Group have agreements which provide compensation 
of up to a maximum of one year’s base salary for loss 
of employment which occurs as a result of a takeover 
offer or scheme, in addition to their contractual notice 
period. This additional compensation is fixed at one 
year’s base salary during the first six months following 
the date of change of control and reduces pro-rata to 
zero over the next 12 months. No director benefits from 
these arrangements.
On a change of control, the Company’s bilateral 
revolving credit facilities may be cancelled by the 
lenders by giving not less than 30 days’ notice to the 
Company. Under the terms of the US Dollar Private 
Placement, concurrently with a change of control, the 
Company must notify all Noteholders and offer to repay 
all outstanding amounts within 60 days of the change of 
control. The Noteholders then have a period of 30 days 
to either accept the offer of repayment or continue with 
the Notes.
Employment policy
Laird conducts business in multiple geographic locations 
and is committed to complying with the relevant legal 
requirements in each of those regions. Business unit 
management are responsible for implementing and 
communicating the Laird Equal Employment and 
Human Rights Policy Statement within their own 
business unit. Various methods are used throughout 
Laird as appropriate in each location for tracking 
morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which 
are reported regularly to local management teams. 
During the year Laird employed an average of 8,939 
employees (2013, 8,665).
Laird is committed to providing equal opportunities in 
terms of recruitment, training and career development 
for all employees, including those with disabilities. 
A copy of Laird’s Equal Employment and Human Rights 
Policy Statement is available on the Company’s website 
at www.laird-plc.com.
Employee participation
The Board recognises that the success of the business 
relies on the skill and dedication of its workforce and 
therefore encourages two-way communication with 
its employees. Operating subsidiaries encourage 
consultation at local level and performance and 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
97
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Other Statutory Information continued
development reviews reinforce the link between 
business goals, an employee’s contribution and his/
her remuneration. Laird communicates regularly with 
its employees, including through the provision of 
information on key events within Laird, charity and 
community involvement and employee achievements. 
In recognition that Laird’s business and its activities 
impact a wide community of stakeholders including 
investors, customers, employees, suppliers and local 
communities, the Board reviews the significance of 
social, environmental and ethical matters which may 
affect Laird. Further details on all these matters are 
available in the Corporate Social Responsibility report 
on pages 20 to 29.
Health and safety at work
Laird is committed to providing a safe working 
environment for its employees and continuous 
improvement is sought by the setting of objectives and 
targets based on relevant national and international 
health and safety standards and monitoring 
performance against these. In addition Laird maintains 
a proactive communications strategy amongst all 
employees to promote and develop good health 
and safety practices. Further information is available 
in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on 
pages 20 to 29.
Research and development
Investing in research and development programmes 
delivers product innovation and manufacturing 
improvements within Laird. Expenditure in the year 
ended 31 December 2014 on research and development 
amounted to £49.7m (2013, £47.6m), of which £12.9m 
has been capitalised (2013, £11.6m). Laird continues 
to develop its technology capabilities, with research 
and development expenditure during the year running 
at 8.8% of sales (2013, 8.9%). This is in line with our 
strategic objective to increase R&D expenditure in the 
year and focus on innovation.
Going concern
As set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
on page 100, the Accounts have been prepared on a 
going concern basis. A statement on going concern 
relating to a business requires judgement at a point 
in time about future events which, by their nature, are 
inherently uncertain. The directors have considered 
the ability of Laird to maintain committed loan finance, 
meet existing debt covenants and the impact of foreign 
currency exposures, as discussed in the Chief Financial 
Officer’s report on pages 44 to 49. The directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the Company and 
the Group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the Accounts.
Financial instruments
An analysis of debt is given in note 22 to the financial 
statements. An analysis of financial instruments at 
carrying value and fair value is given in note 28 to the 
financial statements. Financial instruments and related 
disclosures together with a discussion of financial risk 
management objectives and exposures to credit and 
liquidity risk are in accordance with IFRS7.
It is the Company’s objective to manage its financial risk 
so as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial 
markets on the Group’s reported profitability and cash 
flows. The policies for managing each of the Group’s 
main financial risk areas are referred to in the Chief 
Financial Officer’s report on page 44 to 49. Additionally, 
the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 30 and 
31 deals with currency exposure risk and the mitigating 
activities adopted.
Post balance sheet events
As at the date of this report, there were no post balance 
sheets events to report.
Auditor
It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be 
reappointed as auditor.
Shareholders
At 31 December 2014 there were 3,608 shareholders.
Substantial equity interests
The Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules (‘DTRs’) 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority require 
notifications relating to control over exercising voting 
rights attached to shares. Categories of notifiable 
interests include direct interests (holdings of shares with 
voting rights attached), indirect interests (those with 
access to voting rights) and financial instruments (which 
give the holder the formal entitlement to acquire shares 
with voting rights attached). Notification must be made 
of each category, and also the aggregate of combined 
holdings, which exceed or fall below the notifiable 
threshold. The requirements of the DTRs specify that, 
save in certain limited circumstances, notifications 
of holdings of 3% or over have to be made when a 
full percentage point increase or decrease occurs. 
The Company has only one class of shares, and does not 
hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights 
under the DTRs is equivalent to the number of shares 
in issue.
98
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 As at 27 February 2015 (being the latest practicable date 
prior to the signing of this document) the Company had 
received the notifications of control of 3% or more over 
the Company’s total voting rights and capital in issue as 
set out below: 
Number of 
Shares
Percentage of 
voting rights
Nature of 
holding
Artemis Investment 
Management 32,112,912 12.01 Direct
Mondrian Investment 
Partners 18,714,684 4.99 Indirect
Norges Bank 13,296,183 4.97 Direct
Disclosure of information to the Auditor
As at the date of this report, as far as each director is 
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware. Each director has taken 
all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director 
in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor 
is aware of that information.
By Order of the Board
A M Downie 
Secretary
2 March 2015
Registered office 
100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ  
Registered in England No. 55513
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
99
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditor’s statement of their responsibilities on 
pages 101 to 105, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors 
and the Auditor in relation to the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom law and regulations. Under that law the Directors have prepared Group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European 
Union and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present a true and fair view 
of the financial position of the Group and Company and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for 
that period. In preparing those financial statements on a going concern basis, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; and
• state that the Group has complied with IFRS as adopted by the EU and that the parent company has 
complied with UK accounting standards, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time, the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. They are also responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Group’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge:
(i)   the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and result of the Group taken as a whole;
(ii)   the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position 
of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces; and
(iii)   the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
David Lockwood  Jonathan Silver 
Chief Executive  Chief Financial Officer
2 March 2015
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities 2014
100
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Laird PLC
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended.
• The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union.
• The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice.
• The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
We have audited the financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the 
Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, 
the Group statement of financial position and Parent Company balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement and 
the related notes 1 to 35. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group 
financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company 
financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 100, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and response to those risks
The table on the next page shows the risks we identified that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit 
strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team, together with 
our audit response to the risk.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
101
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditor’s report continued
Risk How the scope of our audit addressed the risk
Revenue recognition across the Group’s diverse global 
operations, including the risk of management override (as 
described on page 112 in accounting policies and financial 
disclosures).
The Group’s pattern of revenue is historically weighted towards 
the second half of the year, with a significant proportion of 
revenue being recognised commensurate with technology 
launches by key customers. Management reward and incentive 
schemes based on achieving profit targets may also place 
pressure on revenue recognition.
Sales arrangements are generally straightforward, requiring 
minimal judgement to be exercised. An area of particular focus 
is the risk that revenue may be inaccurately recorded and/or 
recorded in the incorrect period, including the potential that 
management may override controls to intentionally misstate the 
nature and timing of revenue transactions.
At each of the Group’s locations in scope for revenue, we 
performed the following audit procedures around revenue 
recognition. 
We walked through the controls designed by the Group and 
operated by the location relating to the recognition of revenue.
We performed detailed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue 
transactions around the year-end date, to corroborate that 
transactions made around the year-end period were recognised 
appropriately.
Detailed analytical review procedures were performed to identify 
significant fluctuations and trends. Where items were noted which 
were not in line with our expectations, we obtained explanations 
and evidence from management and assessed whether, in our 
professional judgement, such items were appropriate. 
Other audit procedures specifically designed to address the risk of 
management override of controls included journal entry testing, 
applying particular focus to the timing of revenue transactions.
Tax transfer pricing exposure relating to the Group’s key 
operational locations (as described on page 60 of the Report 
of the Audit Committee and page 114 in accounting policies and 
financial disclosures).
The global nature of the Group’s operations and the presence 
of cross-border transactions present a complex tax environment 
and the potential for misstatement increases as a result. As 
a consequence, provisions for ongoing matters in respect of 
uncertain tax positions attract a high level of judgement and 
due to the potential effect on the tax rate we recognise a risk 
in this area.
As a result of the settlement of certain transfer pricing exposures, 
the Group now has certainty over the majority of its taxable 
losses and as a consequence has considered deferred tax asset 
recognition in relation to these losses. In doing so it is necessary 
to exercise judgement in terms of sufficiency of future taxable 
profits and the amount of taxable temporary differences of the 
appropriate type in the same jurisdiction.
We challenged management’s assumptions in relation to the 
Group’s material tax positions around the world, in particular the 
status of transfer pricing agreements between key locations and 
the accounting implications for the financial statements. This 
included corroborating movements in uncertain tax positions. Our 
audit procedures also included an assessment of the disclosures in 
the Annual Report and Accounts.
For the remaining tax exposures we critically assessed through 
inquiry, corroboration and consultation with EY tax experts, the 
level of provision in relation to the likelihood of tax payable in each 
jurisdiction where material items remain unsettled. Subsequently 
we also considered the consequential tax implications of 
agreement with the relevant authorities.
In relation to the deferred tax asset we obtained and verified 
calculations prepared by management supporting the 
quantum of the losses and the quantum of taxable temporary 
differences arising in the same jurisdiction. We considered the 
appropriateness of the deferred tax liabilities supporting the 
recognition of the deferred tax asset. In addition, we considered 
whether any additional deferred tax assets could be recognised 
based on future taxable profits.
Valuation of Model Solution put and call options (as described 
on page 61 of the Report of the Audit Committee and pages 115 
and 116 in accounting policies and financial disclosures).
The Group completed its acquisition of 51% of Model Solution, 
a South Korean entity, in April 2014. Management considers the 
Group to hold control over Model Solution and consolidates that 
entity’s results, recognising a non-controlling interest for the 
proportion not owned by Laird.
The shareholder agreement includes both put and call options 
over the share capital not currently owned by Laird. The estimated 
amounts of the purchase price of the put and call options have 
been recognised as a financial liability and a financial asset on the 
Group balance sheet, respectively, with no right of set-off. 
The purchase price estimate for the call option (exercisable 
between 2017 and 2019) is based on an option pricing model, with 
input from an external specialist, and considers a range of EBITDA 
scenarios and probabilities. The purchase price estimate for the 
put option is based on expected EBITDA at the option’s exercise 
date in 2019, to which a discount rate has been applied. 
There are inherent complexities associated with valuing both 
options and there is judgement involved in predicting growth and 
cash flows for the years up to the exercise dates. 
As part of our audit procedures we analysed the shareholder 
agreement and assessed management’s determination of control 
under IFRS 10 definitions.
We tested the reasonableness of the estimates of the purchase 
prices of the put and call options attached to the non-controlling 
interest, engaging EY valuations specialists to challenge the 
assumptions used by management and external specialists in the 
determination of the corresponding liability and asset values as 
disclosed in the financial statements. 
We assessed the valuation methodology used by management, 
with specific regard to the future growth projections of the Model 
Solution business, as determined by management. This included 
an examination of forecasts along with historical performance of 
the business. For the put option, EY valuations experts assessed 
the suitability of the discount rate inherent in the calculation of the 
liability, confirming that management used an appropriate rate 
which reflects the risk related to the cash flows. 
We considered the accounting treatment of the put and call 
options under IFRS 10, IAS 32 and IAS 39 criteria to assess 
whether the resulting estimates were acceptable. 
We performed procedures to validate that the base data used in 
the models agreed to the underlying books and records.
102
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk How the scope of our audit addressed the risk
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible 
assets (as described on page 60 of the Report of the Audit 
Committee and page 114 in accounting policies and financial 
disclosures).
Management performs an annual impairment review to assess the 
recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, which are spread 
across a broad range of geographies and economies. These 
asset values are dependent on businesses acquired achieving a 
sufficient level of profitability in the future. 
Several assumptions are required by management in order to 
test for impairment, namely forecast future cash flows, which are 
judgemental and subject to inherent uncertainties. The discount 
rate set by management and applied to the future cash flows is 
also subject to inherent complexities. 
We examined management’s methodology used to assess the 
carrying value of the goodwill balances attached to the Group’s 
two cash-generating units, Laird Performance Materials (LPM) 
and Laird Wireless Systems (LWS), in accordance with IAS 36. 
In particular, we challenged the forecast cash flows for each cash-
generating unit and assessed these against historical performance 
of LPM and LWS. Together with EY valuations specialists we 
assessed the appropriateness of key assumptions, notably the 
discount rate. This included an assessment of the specific inputs to 
the discount rate, including the risk-free rate, equity risk premium 
and beta, along with gearing and cost of debt. Such inputs were 
benchmarked either against risk rates in specific international 
markets in which the Group operates, or equivalent data for 
peer companies. Procedures also included a comparison of the 
weighted average cost of capital to estimates by brokers for the 
Group’s peer group of companies. 
We performed a reconciliation of the Group’s recoverable amount 
to its market capitalisation. We also performed sensitivity analyses 
by stressing key assumptions in the impairment models to assess 
the level of headroom in place. In particular, we applied sensitivity 
analyses to growth rates and the discount rate for both cash-
generating units.
Classification of exceptional items (as described on page 61 of 
the Report of the Audit Committee and page 115 in accounting 
policies and financial disclosures).
Exceptional items mainly comprise amounts relating to the 
scaling down of Nextreme’s operations, offset by acquisition-
related costs and one-off charges in respect of material litigation 
against the Group.
The classification of exceptional items is subject to judgement 
exercised by management, taking into account IFRS criteria and 
FRC-issued guidance.
We carried out audit procedures on the Group’s material 
exceptional items and challenged management’s rationale 
to check that these items met the definition of exceptional as 
specified by IFRS criteria and FRC-issued guidance, as well as 
reviewing the related exceptional items disclosures.
Specifically, we performed the following audit procedures in 
respect of particular exceptional items:
–  To corroborate the legal fees we agreed material invoices 
to check these were appropriately recorded. We obtained 
confirmation of the underlying litigation matter from the 
Group’s external legal counsel, including their assessment 
of the likelihood of success of the claimant. We considered 
the sufficiency of the charge recognised in the year and the 
corresponding balance sheet provision.
–  We audited the release of the contingent consideration and 
the writedown of the capitalised development costs relating 
to Nextreme. We challenged management’s assumptions 
regarding future revenue projections to assess whether the 
release of contingent consideration was appropriate, along 
with their corresponding assumptions around the recoverability 
of capitalised development costs in light of the downsizing of 
that business.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud 
or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the 
Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of 
performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 
the implications for our report.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
103
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 An overview of the scope of our audit 
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected 15 
components which represent the principal components within the Group’s two reportable segments. In total the 
audits of these components provides coverage of 78% of the Group’s revenue (2013, 70%), 66% (2013, 60%) of the 
Group’s adjusted profit before tax and 82% (2013, 81%) of the Group’s total assets. Full scope component audits 
provide coverage of 52% (2013, 50%) of the Group’s revenue, 47% (2013, 53%) of the Group’s profit before tax and 
70% (2013, 72%) of the Group’s total assets. Specific scope component audits provide coverage of 26% (2013, 20%) 
of the Group’s revenue, 19% (2013, 7%) of the Group’s profit before tax and 12% (2013, 9%) of the Group’s total 
assets. Six of these components were subject to a full audit while nine components were subject to specific audit 
procedures including a full audit of the accounts that were impacted by our assessed risks of material misstatement 
and the materiality of the Group’s business operations at those locations. They were also selected to provide 
an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above. 
One other component was subject to limited review procedures. 
For the remaining components, we undertook analytical and enquiry procedures to confirm there were no 
significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements. Together with additional procedures 
performed at the Group level, this gave us the evidence required for our opinion on the Group financial statements 
as a whole. 
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits, designed to ensure that the Senior 
Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each of the six full scope locations at least once a year. This year, the Group 
audit team visited key locations in the USA, Czech Republic, China and South Korea. The purpose of these visits is 
to confirm that appropriate procedures have been performed by the auditors of these components and that the 
significant audit areas have been covered as communicated in the detailed audit instructions, including the risks of 
material misstatement as outlined above. As part of this series of visits by the Group audit team our review included 
examining key working papers and conclusions where these related to areas of management and auditor judgement 
with specific focus on the risks detailed above. The Group audit team participated in the component teams’ 
planning, during visits made earlier in the audit period, including the component teams’ discussion of fraud and error. 
Telephone and video meetings were held with the auditors at the majority of locations which the Group audit team 
did not visit in person.
During the year the Group acquired Model Solution, a South Korean entity, of which EY is not the auditor. The Group 
audit team instructed the local auditor (a member firm within the network of another Big 4 firm) to perform specific 
audit procedures designed to address the risks of material misstatement as outlined above and satisfied ourselves 
that their audit methodology was appropriate, along with their professional competency. The Group audit team 
performed the review procedures detailed above.
Our application of materiality 
We initially determined materiality for the Group to be £2.4 million (2013, £2.3 million), which is approximately 5% 
(2013, 5%) of adjusted profit before tax. We used adjusted profit before tax to exclude non-recurring items, namely 
the total of those amounts as described in note 7 to the accounts. This provided a basis for determining the nature, 
timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and 
determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
During the course of our audit we reassessed initial materiality and as the actual profit of the Group did not 
differ significantly we retained materiality at £2.4 million. On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our 
assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality 
(i.e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance) for the Group should be 75% (2013, 75%) of 
planning materiality, namely £1.8 million (2013, £1.7 million). Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure 
that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality. 
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of the component and our view 
of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to 
components was £0.5 million to £1.1 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 
£120,000 (2013, £115,000), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above 
and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Independent auditor’s report continued
104
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• The part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
• The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report 
and Accounts is: 
• Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements. 
• Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit. 
• Is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, 
balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report and Accounts appropriately discloses those matters 
that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us.
• The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
• Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made.
• We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• The directors’ statement, set out on page 98, in relation to going concern.
• The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Eamonn McGrath (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP
Statutory Auditor
London
2 March 2015
Notes:
1. The maintenance and integrity of the Laird PLC website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve 
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
105
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Note
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
Continuing operations
4 Revenue
Performance Materials 366.1 342.8
Wireless Systems 198.8 194.2
564.9 537.0
Operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional 
items
71.2 67.2
17 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (13.3) (13.6)
7 Exceptional items 0.7 (4.6)
6 Operating profit 58.6 49.0
10 Finance revenue 0.5 0.8
10 Finance costs (8.5) (8.0)
10 Financial instruments – fair value adjustments (2.5) 1.3
35 Other net finance revenue – pension – 0.1
Profit before tax from continuing operations 48.1 43.2
11 Taxation 2.1 (12.6)
Profit from continuing operations 50.2 30.6
Discontinued operations
12 Profit from discontinued operations – 0.2
Profit for the year 50.2 30.8
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent company 50.1 30.8
Non-controlling interests 0.1 –
50.2 30.8
13 Basic on profit for the year from continuing operations* 18.8p 11.5p
13 Diluted on profit for the year from continuing operations* 18.6p 11.4p
13 Basic on profit for the year* 18.8p 11.6p
13 Diluted on profit for the year* 18.6p 11.5p
14 Underlying profit before tax**
Continuing* 63.2 60.1
Underlying basic earnings per share**
Basic from continuing operations* 19.1p 18.6p
Diluted from continuing operations* 18.9p 18.4p
* attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company.
** before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, exceptional items, deferred tax on the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and 
US capitalised development costs, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments and 
acquisition transaction costs.
Group income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2014
106
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Profit for the year 50.2 30.8
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
35 Net re-measurement gains/(losses) on retirement benefit obligations 2.8 (2.5)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences on retranslation of overseas net investments 26.0 (8.7)
Exchange differences on net investment hedges (8.7) 2.5
17.3 (6.2)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 20.1 (8.7)
Total comprehensive income for the year 70.3 22.1
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent company 70.0 22.1
Non-controlling interests 0.3 –
 70.3 22.1
Group statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
107
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Group statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Note
Attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company
Equity 
share 
capital  
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Translation 
reserve  
£m
Treasury 
shares  
£m
Other 
Reserve 
£m
Total  
£m
Non-
Controlling 
Interests 
£m
Total  
£m
for the year ended  
31 December 2013
At 1 January 2013 75.2 271.0 8.1 90.9 (4.3) – 440.9 – 440.9
Profit for the year – – 30.8 – – – 30.8 – 30.8
Other comprehensive loss – – (2.5) (6.2) – – (8.7) – (8.7)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – 28.3 (6.2) – – 22.1 – 22.1
 Exercise of share options 0.1 0.2 – – – – 0.3 – 0.3
 30 Share based payments – – 1.4 – – – 1.4 – 1.4
Vesting of LTIPs/Restricted shares – – (1.9) – 1.9 – – – –
 15 Dividends paid – – (28.6) – – – (28.6) – (28.6)
At 31 December 2013 75.3 271.2 7.3 84.7 (2.4) – 436.1 – 436.1
for the year ended  
31 December 2014
At 1 January 2014 75.3 271.2 7.3 84.7 (2.4) – 436.1 – 436.1
Profit for the year – – 50.1 – – – 50.1 0.1 50.2
Other comprehensive income – – 2.9 17.0 – – 19.9 0.2 20.1
Total comprehensive income – – 53.0 17.0 – – 70.0 0.3 70.3
 Exercise of share options – 0.5 – – – – 0.5 – 0.5
 30 Share based payments – – 1.8 – – – 1.8 – 1.8
Treasury shares – – – – (1.1) – (1.1) – (1.1)
Vesting of LTIPs/Restricted shares – – (1.8) – 1.8 – – – –
Fair value of put option on 
acquisition
– – – – – (33.3) (33.3) – (33.3)
Non-controlling interests on 
acquisition
– – – – – – – 8.4 8.4
 15 Dividends paid – – (32.6) – – – (32.6) – (32.6)
At 31 December 2014 75.3 271.7 27.7 101.7 (1.7) (33.3) 441.4 8.7 450.1
108
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
 16 Property, plant and equipment 91.9 69.0
 17 Intangible assets 556.2 513.9
 25 Deferred tax assets 4.1 6.3
 28 Derivative financial instruments 1.1 –
 35 Retirement benefit assets 8.9 4.8
Other non-current assets 1.0 0.6
663.2 594.6
Current assets
 19 Inventories 60.2 53.8
 20 Trade and other receivables 146.2 123.7
Income tax receivable 1.0 0.5
 28 Derivative financial instruments – 1.9
 16 Assets held for sale 0.5 –
 21 Cash and cash equivalents 64.0 51.5
271.9 231.4
Liabilities
Current liabilities
 22 Borrowings (0.8) (58.6)
 28 Derivative financial instruments (0.6) –
 24 Trade and other payables (111.5) (101.7)
Current tax liabilities (2.6) (6.9)
 27 Provisions (1.8) (1.5)
(117.3) (168.7)
Net current assets 154.6 62.7
Non-current liabilities
 22 Borrowings (222.7) (102.4)
 28 Derivative financial instruments (32.6) –
Income tax payable (23.6) (20.3)
 25 Deferred tax liabilities (69.6) (76.5)
 35 Retirement benefit obligations (10.6) (8.5)
 26 Other non-current liabilities (1.6) (8.3)
 27 Provisions (7.0) (5.2)
(367.7) (221.2)
Net assets 450.1 436.1
Capital and reserves
 29 Equity share capital 75.3 75.3
 Share premium 271.7 271.2
 Retained earnings 27.7 7.3
 31 Translation reserve 101.7 84.7
 31 Treasury shares (1.7) (2.4)
Other reserves (33.3) –
Equity attributable to owners of the parent company 441.4 436.1
Non-controlling interests 8.7 –
Equity 450.1 436.1
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
D C LOCKWOOD
J C SILVER
Directors
Group statement of financial position
as at 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
109
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
 32 Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 73.3 64.9
Tax paid (13.0) (13.0)
Net cash flows from operating activities 60.3 51.9
Cash flow from investing activities
Interest received 0.5 0.8
 32 Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired) (19.0) 0.1
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (22.5) (13.1)
Purchase of intangible assets (internally developed) (12.9) (11.6)
 32 Net (outflow)/inflow from sale of businesses (0.3) 2.8
Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment – 0.3
Decrease in current financial assets 1.7 –
Net cash flows from investing activities (52.5) (20.7)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest and other finance costs paid (8.1) (7.9)
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 0.5 0.3
 31 Purchase of treasury shares (1.1) –
Increase/(decrease) in borrowings 44.2 (12.3)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders of parent (32.6) (28.6)
Net cash flows from financing activities 2.9 (48.5)
Effects of movements in foreign exchange rates 1.8 0.1
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents for the year 12.5 (17.2)
 32 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 51.5 68.7
 32 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 64.0 51.5
Group cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2014
110
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 1 Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue by the Board 
of Directors on 2 March 2015 and the statement of financial position was signed on the Board’s behalf by D C 
Lockwood and J C Silver. Laird PLC is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and 
Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted for use in the European Union (IFRS) and the principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set 
out in note 2. 
2 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for derivative financial 
instruments and accounting for pensions, which have been measured at fair value. The consolidated financial 
statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand unless 
otherwise indicated. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles requires the directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and 
expense during the reporting periods. Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the directors’ 
best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of goodwill, 
the measurement of defined benefit pension assets and obligations, the measurement of income and deferred 
taxes and the measurement of put and call options in respect of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries. The Group 
determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of 
the cash generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated. This involves estimation of future cash flows 
and choosing a suitable discount rate (see note 17). Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires 
estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates and the selection of a suitable 
discount rate (see note 35). The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of tax jurisdictions and judgements 
are applied in deciding the level of provisions for income taxes. To the extent that the final outcome differs from the 
tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to provisions held in the period the determination is made. 
Put and call options in respect of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are stated at their fair value at each balance 
sheet date with changes being taken through the income statement.
The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for accounting in preparing the annual financial statements. 
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future.
The accounting policies set out below have been used to prepare the financial information.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated Group comprises Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings (‘the Group’). The financial statements 
of the subsidiaries are prepared as of the same reporting date as the parent, using consistent accounting policies 
where appropriate. Intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the 
date on which the Group ceases to control them.
All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of a business combination 
is measured as the aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of any assets given, liabilities incurred 
or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group. For acquisitions before 1 January 2010, costs directly 
attributable to the combination were capitalised. The identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree are measured 
initially at fair value at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s 
interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, including those of an intangible and tangible nature and 
liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
111
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2 Accounting policies continued
Currency translation
The financial statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries are prepared using its functional currency. 
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates. 
The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency 
monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
In the Group accounts the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted 
average rates of exchange for the period. Net investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at 
the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising from retranslating opening net 
investments and the retained profits for the period of overseas subsidiaries, less exchange differences on foreign 
currency borrowings that provide a hedge against overseas investments, are shown as movements in equity. 
All other exchange differences are dealt with in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. 
On disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders’ equity that relate to 
the disposed operation are transferred to the income statement.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received and excludes intra-group sales and value-added 
taxes and represents net invoice value.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party, 
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the 
transaction will flow to the Group.
Retirement benefit obligations
Under IAS 19 the assets and liabilities of defined benefit pension plans are recognised at fair value in the statement 
of financial position and the operating and financing costs of defined benefit pension plans are recognised in the 
income statement as operating costs and interest costs respectively. Variations from expected costs, arising from 
the experience of the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the statement of 
comprehensive income.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the 
projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current 
service cost) and to the current and prior periods (to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation) 
and is based on actuarial advice. The assets of defined benefit plans are recognised at fair value in the statement 
of financial position and the liabilities are recognised at present value using a high quality corporate bond rate. 
The Group applies IFRIC 14, which allows the Group to recognise a surplus in schemes where an unconditional 
right to a refund or benefit available in the form of reduced contribution rates exists. 
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the income statement in the period in which 
they become payable.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
112
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2 Accounting policies continued
Share based payments
The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), Medium Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) and Restricted Share Plan 
(RSP) shares awarded is estimated at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking into 
account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP, MTIP and RSP shares were awarded including market based 
performance conditions. The fair value of share options granted is estimated at the date of grant using a binomial 
lattice method of calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. 
Non-market company performance and service conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
No expense is recognised for grants that do not vest and charges previously made are reversed except that an 
expense is recognised for grants where vesting is conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as 
vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided all the other vesting conditions 
are satisfied. 
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market 
conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a 
market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous 
balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms 
had not been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value 
of the share based payment, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of 
cancellation or settlement, and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately. 
Intangible assets
Acquired intangible assets, including patents, trade secrets, brand names and customer relationships, are recognised 
separately from goodwill and capitalised at fair value and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis. The estimated useful life of an intangible 
asset ranges between 3 and 20 years depending on its nature.
Research and development
Research and development expenditure is expensed as it is incurred, except for certain development costs, which 
are capitalised as intangible assets when it is probable that the development project will be commercially viable, 
and certain criteria, including commercial and technological feasibility have been met. Intangible assets arising in 
this manner are amortised over their useful economic lives, from the product launch date, which is typically around 
four years. Intangible assets relating to products in the development phase, both internally generated and externally 
acquired, are subject to an impairment review at each balance sheet date, or earlier should indication of impairment 
arise. Any impairment losses are written off immediately to the income statement.
Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired. Goodwill arises where the fair 
value of the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are 
indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject 
to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill set off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been 
reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
113
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2 Accounting policies continued
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation 
authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
 – where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction effects neither accounting nor 
taxable profit or loss;
 – in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future; and
 – deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available 
against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. 
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement or statement of comprehensive income.
Dividends
Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they 
become a legal liability of the Company.
Interest
Interest is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Cost comprises the purchase price and directly attributable costs, for example, initial delivery and handling costs and 
installation and assembly costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. For all other property, plant, and equipment 
depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their useful 
lives as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years or less
Leasehold buildings 50 years or the lease term if less
Computer equipment 5 years or less
Motor vehicles 4 years
Other plant and machinery  13 years or less
A proportion of one year’s depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any 
such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate 
of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating 
unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. This is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset 
does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. If the 
asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, 
the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined. Where the carrying 
amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its 
recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value 
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those 
expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
114
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2 Accounting policies continued
Leases
Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is 
treated as a finance lease. All other leases are treated as operating leases, and the related charges are expensed to 
the income statement evenly over the lease term.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at fair value. 
Each asset is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the asset. The obligations relating to 
finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate under current, or non-
current, trade and other payables. The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods 
during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each 
accounting period.
Segment reporting
Segments are identified on the basis of management information which is presented to the Group’s Chief Operating 
Decision Maker to assess the performance of each segment.
Exceptional items
These items are presented within the relevant income statement category. The separate reporting of exceptional 
items helps provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. Events which are considered 
to be material and one off in nature and therefore may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional 
include the restructuring of businesses, the transaction costs of acquiring new businesses, gains or losses on the 
reassessment of estimated contingent consideration on acquired businesses, gains or losses on the reassessment of 
put and call options in respect of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries, the integration of new businesses, gains or 
losses on the disposal of businesses, and asset impairments.
Financial assets 
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables. Trade and other receivables 
are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset and are 
measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment. A provision for impairment is made when there 
is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that 
the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying 
amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired debts are derecognised when 
they are assessed as irrecoverable. Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is 
considered material. 
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. 
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired. 
Derivative financial assets are classified as held for trading, unless they are designated as hedging instruments. 
These assets are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses in value being recognised in the 
income statement.
A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is 
derecognised where:
 – the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or
 – the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
115
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2 Accounting policies continued
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less, in the case of a liability not at fair value through profit 
or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. Measurement after initial recognition is at amortised cost, with the 
changes in the carrying amount being taken through the income statement.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial 
recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are 
recognised respectively in finance income and finance expense. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period 
they occur.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The Group may use derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to 
hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at fair value. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify 
for hedge accounting are taken to the income statement. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is 
positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for 
contracts with similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to 
market values for similar instruments. In accordance with the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13 these are Level 2 
derivative financial instruments.
For those contracts designated as hedges the hedging relationship is documented at its inception. 
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk 
being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are tested, both 
at inception to ensure they are expected to be effective and periodically throughout their duration to assess 
continuing effectiveness.
Cash flow hedges
These are used to hedge potential changes in cash flows of highly probable forecast transactions. For cash flow 
hedges, the effective portion of the fair value movement on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, 
while the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income 
statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs. 
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred 
to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to 
profit or loss. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, 
or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast 
transaction occurs and are transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial 
asset or liability as above. If the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to profit or loss.
Net investment hedges
These are used to hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign 
operations. The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge 
is recognised in shareholders’ equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the income statement. 
Fair value measurement
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements. IFRS 13 does not change 
when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS. 
IFRS 13 defines fair value as an exit price. As a result of the guidance in IFRS 13, the Group re-assessed its policies for 
measuring fair values, in particular, its valuation inputs such as non-performance risk for fair value measurement of 
liabilities. IFRS 13 also requires additional disclosures.
Fair value hierarchy is provided in note 28 and derivative financial instruments are Level 1 under IFRS 13 unless 
otherwise disclosed.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
116
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2 Accounting policies continued
Treasury shares
The Laird PLC shares held in the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”) are classified in shareholders’ equity 
as ‘treasury shares’ and are recognised at cost. Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised 
in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to revenue 
reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation 
of equity shares.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash in the statement of financial position comprises cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an 
original maturity in three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash 
equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. For finished goods and work in progress, cost 
includes directly attributable costs and certain overhead expenses (principally administration costs) are excluded. 
Net realisable value is determined as estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be 
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provisions
These comprise liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of 
the obligation. Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is material.
New Standards and Interpretations not applied 
IFRS 10 and 12 were adopted for the financial year and resulted in additional disclosures.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not 
been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective for the financial period:
Effective date year 
starting
IAS 19 Amendment – Contributions from employees 1 January 2015
IFRS 2 Amendment – Definitions of performance and service conditions 1 January 2015
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with customers 1 January 2017
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards could have a material impact on the amounts reported 
and disclosures made on the Group’s financial statements in the period of initial application and plan to adopt these 
standards in line with their effective dates. It is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effects until a 
detailed review is completed.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
117
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3 Segmental analysis 
The reportable segments for continuing operations (as defined by IFRS 8) are as follows:
 – Performance Materials – designs and supplies a range of EMI shielding materials, thermal management Solutions, 
signal integrity products to a wide variety of electronic devices and prototypes; and
 – Wireless Systems – designs and supplies a range of high specification wireless antennae, and machine-to-machine 
(“M2M”) wireless modules for a number of markets including infrastructure and automotive markets.
Performance Materials Wireless Systems Total
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
 2014  
£m
 2013  
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue from customers 366.1 342.8 198.8 194.2 564.9 537.0
Segment profit before: 54.1 51.5 24.5 22.7 78.6 74.2
Amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets
(5.5) (4.9) (7.8) (8.7) (13.3) (13.6)
Exceptional items (1.5) (0.6) (3.6) (5.4) (5.1) (6.0)
47.1 46.0 13.1 8.6 60.2 54.6
Unallocated costs (7.4) (7.0)
Unallocated exceptional items 5.8 1.4
Operating profit 58.6 49.0
Finance revenue 0.5 0.8
Finance costs (8.5) (8.0)
Financial instruments – fair value 
adjustments
(2.5) 1.3
Other net finance revenue – pension – 0.1
Profit before tax 48.1 43.2
Taxation 2.1 (12.6)
Profit from continuing operations 50.2 30.6
Discontinued operations
Exceptional items – 0.2
Operating profit – 0.2
Taxation – (0.4)
Loss from discontinued operations – (0.2)
Profit before tax on disposal of 
businesses:
Profit before tax on prior year disposals* – 0.4
Profit from discontinued operations – 0.2
Profit for the year 50.2 30.8
The Group did not have any inter-segment revenue in 2014 and 2013. 
Revenue from one customer of the Performance Materials division and Wireless Systems division represents 
approximately £83.3m (2013, £84.9m) of the Group’s total revenues.
Unallocated costs are central costs related to managing the parent company.
* These relate to other business segments disposed of in years before 2013.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
118
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3 Segmental analysis continued
Performance Materials Wireless Systems Total
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Segment assets 547.5 478.5 358.2 324.5 905.7 803.0
Unallocated assets – – – – 29.4 23.0
Total assets 547.5 478.5 358.2 324.5 935.1 826.0
Segment liabilities 75.5 71.7 36.0 34.1 111.5 105.8
Unallocated liabilities
– borrowings – – – – 223.5 161.0
– other (see below) – – – – 150.1 123.1
Total liabilities 75.5 71.7 36.0 34.1 485.1 389.9
Other segment items
Capital additions 17.0 12.0 18.6 12.4 35.6 24.4
Acquisition of businesses 41.7 13.0 – – 41.7 13.0
Total additions 58.7 25.0 18.6 12.4 77.3 37.4
Depreciation 13.4 12.3 2.7 2.6 16.1 14.9
Amortisation/write downs of 
intangible assets
6.6 6.4 11.5 11.0 18.1 17.4
Unallocated assets in the above table include cash and cash equivalents, retirement benefits and other debtors.
Unallocated liabilities – other in the above table include liabilities for current tax, deferred tax, retirement benefits, 
dividends, provisions and other creditors.
Geographic information
The Group managed its business segments on a global basis and the parent company is resident in the UK. 
The Group’s operations are based in the following territories:
North America, Europe, Asia and Rest of World.
The revenue analysis in the table below is based on the location of the customer. The analysis of non–current 
assets is based on the location of the assets and for this purpose consists of property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets.
Revenue Non–current assets
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Continuing operations
North America 188.3 179.5 457.1 431.8
Europe 89.7 85.5 96.9 103.6
Asia 271.0 258.2 94.1 47.5
Rest of World 15.9 13.8 – –
564.9 537.0 648.1 582.9
Revenue from UK customers (the Company’s country of domicile) was £9.6m (2013, £8.7m).
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
119
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 4 Revenue
Revenue disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Sale of goods 564.9 537.0
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods and services (2013, £nil).
5 Exchange rates 
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted average rates of 
exchange for the year. The principal rates used were as follows:
Average Closing
2014 2013 2014 2013
Czech Koruna 34.15 30.56 35.49 32.90
Euros 1.24 1.18 1.28 1.20
Japanese Yen 173.88 152.12 185.75 174.08
Korean Won 1733.55 1710.65 1710.33 1747.92
Renminbi (RMB) 10.16 9.62 9.65 10.03
Swedish Krona 11.27 10.18 12.06 10.64
US dollars 1.65 1.56 1.56 1.66
6 Operating profit before finance costs and tax
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 564.9 537.0
Cost of sales (337.4) (317.8)
Gross profit 227.5 219.2
Selling, administration and other expenses (127.3) (130.6)
Research and development expenditure (net) (41.6) (39.6)
Operating profit before finance costs and tax 58.6 49.0
Note
(a)  Included in selling, administration and other expenses are £0.7m (2013, £4.6m) of exceptional items as described in note 7 to the financial 
statements and £13.3m (2013, £13.6m) of amortisation relating to acquired intangible assets.
(b)  Included in research and development expenditure is £4.8m (2013, £3.6m) of amortisation in respect of capitalised development costs.
(c)  Cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales was £226.4m (2013, £215.2m).
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
120
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 6 Operating profit before finance costs and tax continued
2014 
Continuing 
operations 
£m
2014 
Discontinued 
operations 
£m
2013 
Continuing 
operations 
£m
2013 
Discontinued 
operations 
£m
Operating profit for the year is stated after charging the 
following items:
Staff costs 124.1 – 117.1 –
Exceptional items 
 Patents litigation 3.6 – – –
 Business acquisition transaction costs 1.7 – 0.6 –
 Capitalised development costs write downs 1.2 – 0.2 –
 Buyout of Manufacturing Representative agreement – – 5.0 –
 Restructuring costs – – 0.6 –
 Other restructuring costs/(credits) 0.5 – 2.9 (0.2)
 Acquisition contingent consideration reduction (6.9) – (4.7) –
  Change in valuation of put and call options in respect 
of Model Solution
(0.8) – – –
(0.7) – 4.6 (0.2)
Research and development expenditure
 Incurred 49.7 – 47.6 –
 Capitalised (12.9) – (11.6) –
Depreciation and amortisation
 Property, plant and equipment 16.1 – 14.9 –
 Capitalised development costs 4.8 – 3.6 –
 Acquired intangible assets 13.3 – 13.6 –
Operating lease rentals
 Hire of plant and machinery 1.4 – 0.8 –
 Other 8.1 – 7.2 –
Auditor’s remuneration*
 Audit fees
 – Audit of financial statements 0.4 – 0.4 –
 – Audit of subsidiaries 0.7 – 0.7 –
 Total audit fees 1.1 – 1.1 –
 Tax fees
 – Compliance services 0.2 – 0.5 –
 – Bilateral Advance Pricing Agreement US–China 0.6 – 0.4 –
 – Advisory services 0.3 – 0.2 –
 Total non–audit services 1.1 – 1.1 –
* Total fees paid to the auditor were £2.2m (2013, £2.2m).
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
121
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7 Exceptional items
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Continuing operations:
Performance Materials
 Capitalised development costs write downs (1.2) –
 Other restructuring costs (0.3) (0.6)
(1.5) (0.6)
Wireless Systems
 Patents litigation (3.6) –
 Buyout of a Manufacturing Representative agreement – (5.0)
 Capitalised development costs write downs – (0.2)
 Other restructuring costs – (0.2)
(3.6) (5.4)
Unallocated (costs)/credits
 Business acquisition transaction costs (1.7) (0.6)
 Change in valuation of put and call options in respect of Model Solution 0.8 –
 Acquisition contingent consideration reduction (note 18) 6.9 4.7
 Other restructuring costs (0.2) (2.7)
5.8 1.4
0.7 (4.6)
Discontinued operations:
 Other restructuring credits – 0.2
Net credit/(charge) 0.7 (4.4)
Note
(a)  The write down of capitalised development costs of £1.2m in 2014 to their recoverable amount is as a result of a reduction in future expected 
revenues from the Nextreme development project which was acquired in 2013.
(b)  A patent lawsuit has been filed against Laird in 2014 which is being defended vigorously. Legal costs of £3.6m have been charged in 2014 
(2013, £nil) to cover the estimated total defence costs. 
(c) The total cash outlay for exceptional costs in 2014 was £9.1m (2013, £3.2m).
(d) The tax effect on exceptional items in 2014 is a £2.6m tax charge (2013, £0.7m tax credit).
(e)  Restructuring costs include redundancy costs of £0.4m (2013, £1.7m) and site rationalisation and closure costs of £0.1m (2013, £1.6m). 
(f)  Discontinued operations in 2013 comprise the Handset Antennae business. 
(g)  The changes in valuation of put and call options in respect of Model Solution included a £0.7m gain (2013, £nil) on a put option and a £0.1m 
gain (2013, £nil) on a call option (see note 28).
8 Directors’ remuneration
2014 
£m 
2013 
£m 
Remuneration 
 Fees 0.2 0.2
 Salaries and benefits 1.0 1.0
 Pension contributions 0.3 0.2
Performance incentive awards 
 Bonuses 0.4 0.4
 Share based payments 0.6 0.5
2.5 2.3
Gains on the exercise of share options by directors during 2014 have been disclosed in the Director’s remuneration 
report on page 92.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
122
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9 Employees
2014 
Number 
2013 
Number 
Average number of Group employees from continuing operations
 Performance Materials 6,813 6,599
 Wireless Systems 2,126 2,066
8,939 8,665
 Discontinued businesses – –
8,939 8,665
The total number of Group employees at 31 December 2014 was 8,922 (2013, 9,279).
2014 
£m 
2013 
£m 
Employee costs
 Wages and salaries 106.2 101.1
 Social security costs 13.5 12.5
 Other pension costs 2.6 2.1
 Share based payments 1.8 1.4
124.1 117.1
Compensation of key management personnel (excluding directors, for details of directors see note 8).
Key management personnel comprise members of the management team as defined by IAS 24 “Related 
Party Disclosures”.
2014 
£m 
2013 
£m 
Short term employee benefits 2.8 3.0
Post employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share based payments 0.6 0.4
3.5 3.5
10 Finance revenues and costs
2014 
£m 
2013 
£m 
Finance revenue
 Interest income 0.5 0.8
Finance costs
 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (2.3) (1.6)
 Interest payable on other loans (4.3) (5.0)
 Interest payable on finance leases (0.5) –
 Other finance charges (1.4) (1.4)
(8.5) (8.0)
Financial instruments – fair value adjustments (2.5) 1.3
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
123
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Taxation
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
(a) Analysis of the tax charge/(credit) for the year
 Current tax
  Current income tax charge 11.2 9.2
  Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years (1.8) 2.1
 Total current tax charge 9.4 11.3
 Deferred tax
  Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (11.1) 2.0
  Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years (0.4) (0.3)
 Total tax charge/(credit) in the income statement (2.1) 13.0
 The tax charge/(credit) in the income statement is disclosed as follows:
 Tax charge/(credit) on continuing operations (2.1) 12.6
 Tax charge/(credit) on discontinued operations – 0.4
(2.1) 13.0
(b) Tax included in other comprehensive income or equity
 The tax charge/(credit) is made up as follows:
 Deferred tax – –
 Share based payments – –
– –
(c) Reconciliation of the total tax charge/(credit) for the year
 Profit from continuing operations 48.1 43.2
 Profit from discontinued operations – 0.6
 Profit before tax 48.1 43.8
  Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.5% 
(2013, 23.25%)
10.3 10.2
 Effects of:
 Items not deductible for tax purposes 10.4 5.6
 Benefit of R&D, Hi-Tech status and local investments (6.2) (4.2)
 Adjustment to current and deferred tax in respect of prior periods (2.2) 1.8
 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses and attributes (2.4) (1.4)
 Current year tax losses and attributes not recognised 6.2 1.4
 Exceptional US loss recognition* (20.1) –
 Overseas tax rate differences 1.9 (0.4)
 Tax on disposal of businesses – –
 Total tax charge/(credit) reported in the income statement (2.1) 13.0
* during the year certainty was achieved over the future availability of tax losses in the US. This exceptional US loss recognition has resulted in a 
deferred tax credit of £20.1m.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
124
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 12 Discontinued operations
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Results from discontinued operations:
Revenue from customers – –
Operating profit before: – –
Exceptional items (see note 7) – 0.2
Taxation (see note 11) – (0.4)
Loss after tax from discontinued operations – (0.2)
Profit on disposal of businesses:
Profit before transfer from translation reserve – –
Transfer from translation reserve – –
Profit on current year disposals – –
Profit on prior year disposals – 0.4
Taxation – –
Profit after tax on disposals – 0.4
Profit from discontinued operations – 0.2
Discontinued operations in 2013 comprise the Handset Antennae business. 
13 Earnings per share
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the profit for the year divided by the daily 
average of the number of shares in issue during the year. Diluted earnings per share is based on the same profit but 
with the number of shares increased to reflect the daily average effect of relevant share options granted but not yet 
exercised where performance conditions have been met and shares contingently issuable.
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Profit 
Profit after tax from continuing operations 50.2 30.6
Profit from discontinued operations – 0.2
Profit for the year 50.2 30.8
Number of 
shares  
(m)
Number of 
shares  
(m)
Weighted average shares
Basic weighted average shares 266.9 266.0
Options 2.6 2.8
Diluted weighted average shares 269.5 268.8
Pence Pence
Earnings per share*
Basic from continuing operations 18.8 11.5
Diluted from continuing operations 18.6 11.4
Basic from discontinued operations – 0.1
Diluted from discontinued operations – 0.1
Basic on profit for the year 18.8 11.6
Diluted on profit for the year 18.6 11.5
* attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
125
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14 Underlying results
Underlying profit and earnings per share are shown as the Board considers them to be relevant guides to the 
performance of the Group. The tax charge for the year is equivalent to 18.4% (2013, 17.5%) of underlying profit 
before tax.
Underlying tax is stated before exceptional items, deferred tax on the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, 
goodwill and US capitalised development costs, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising 
from the fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition costs. The deferred tax impact of short-term losses 
and current tax on the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill are included in the calculation of 
underlying tax.
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Profit
Continuing profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items 71.2 67.2
Finance revenue 0.5 0.8
Finance costs (8.5) (8.0)
Other finance revenue – pension – 0.1
Continuing underlying profit before tax 63.2 60.1
Tax
The underlying tax charge is calculated as follows: 
Underlying tax on continuing operations 11.6 10.5
Continuing underlying tax rate 18.4% 17.5%
Tax charge on discontinued operations – 0.4
Tax charge/(credit) on exceptional items 2.6 (0.7)
Deferred tax on goodwill, acquired intangible assets and US capitalised development costs 3.8 2.8
Exceptional US tax loss recognition* (20.1) –
Total tax charge/(credit) (2.1) 13.0
Analysis of tax charge:
Tax on profit from continuing operations (2.1) 12.6
Tax on discontinued operations – 0.4
(2.1) 13.0
* the exceptional US tax loss recognition has resulted in a deferred tax credit of £20.1m.
Earnings per share** Pence Pence
Continuing underlying earnings per share – basic 19.1 18.6
Continuing underlying earnings per share – diluted 18.9 18.4
** attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
126
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Dividends paid and proposed
On 2 March 2015 the Board declared, subject to approval from shareholders, a final dividend of 8.23p per share 
(2013, 7.9p). The final dividend will be paid on 3 July 2015 to shareholders registered on 5 June 2015. Dividends paid 
are charged to retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a legal 
liability of the Company.
Total Dividends
Dividends paid
Dividends declared/
proposed*
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Final 2012 – 17.6 – –
Interim 2013 – 11.0 – 11.0
Final 2013 21.2 – – 21.1
Interim 2014 11.4 – 11.4 –
Final 2014 – – 22.0 –
32.6 28.6 33.4 32.1
Dividends per share
Dividends paid
Dividends declared/
proposed*
2014  
Pence
2013  
Pence
2014  
Pence
2013  
Pence
Final 2012 – 6.6 – –
Interim 2013 – 4.1 – 4.1
Final 2013 7.90 – – 7.9
Interim 2014 4.27 – 4.27 –
Final 2014 – – 8.23 –
12.17 10.7 12.50 12.0
* attributable to the year.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
127
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 16 Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings  
£m
Plant and 
machinery  
£m
Total  
£m
Cost 
At 1 January 2013 23.4 163.8 187.2
Additions 0.6 12.2 12.8
Acquisition of businesses in the year – 0.6 0.6
Disposals (1.6) (1.5) (3.1)
Foreign currency adjustment (1.1) (2.5) (3.6)
At 31 December 2013 21.3 172.6 193.9
Additions 2.9 20.6 23.5
Acquisition of businesses in the year 7.6 5.9 13.5
Disposals (0.3) (3.7) (4.0)
Reclassification of assets held for sale* (0.7) – (0.7)
Foreign currency adjustment 0.9 7.2 8.1
At 31 December 2014 31.7 202.6 234.3
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2013 13.9 102.1 116.0
Charge for year 1.2 13.7 14.9
Disposals (1.6) (1.2) (2.8)
Foreign currency adjustment (0.7) (2.5) (3.2)
At 31 December 2013 12.8 112.1 124.9
Charge for year 1.4 14.7 16.1
Disposals (0.3) (3.7) (4.0)
Reclassification of assets held for sale* (0.2) – (0.2)
Foreign currency adjustment 0.8 4.8 5.6
At 31 December 2014 14.5 127.9 142.4
Net book value at 31 December 2014 17.2 74.7 91.9
Net book value at 31 December 2013 8.5 60.5 69.0
Net book value at 1 January 2013 9.5 61.7 71.2
* Land and buildings with a net book value of £0.5m have been reclassified as assets held for sale as at 31 December 2014. The land and buildings 
are held for sale by Wireless Systems in the US and no gain or loss on disposal is expected. 
Finance leases – the net book value of buildings held under finance leases as at 31 December 2014 was £7.6m 
(2013, £nil) and of plant and machinery was £0.6m (2013, £nil). 
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
128
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Intangible assets
Capitalised  
development  
costs  
£m
Goodwill  
£m
Customer  
relationships  
£m
Other  
acquired  
intangible  
assets  
£m
Total  
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 50.7 535.6 116.9 62.1 765.3
Additions 11.6 – – – 11.6
Adjustments to prior year acquisition of businesses – 0.2 – – 0.2
Acquisition of businesses in the year – 12.3 – – 12.3
Disposals (0.7) – – – (0.7)
Foreign currency adjustment (0.9) (7.3) (1.4) (0.9) (10.5)
At 31 December 2013 60.7 540.8 115.5 61.2 778.2
Additions 12.9 – – – 12.9
Acquisition of businesses in the year – 10.7 15.1 1.0 26.8
Disposals (1.4) – – – (1.4)
Foreign currency adjustment 2.4 22.1 4.4 3.0 31.9
At 31 December 2014 74.6 573.6 135.0 65.2 848.4
Amortisation
At 1 January 2013 33.9 117.3 61.3 39.3 251.8
Charge for the year 3.6 – 10.3 3.3 17.2
Exceptional write downs in the year 0.2 – – – 0.2
Disposals (0.7) – – – (0.7)
Foreign currency adjustment (0.4) (1.6) (1.4) (0.8) (4.2)
At 31 December 2013 36.6 115.7 70.2 41.8 264.3
Charge for the year 4.8 – 10.3 3.0 18.1
Exceptional write downs in the year 1.2 – – – 1.2
Disposals (1.4) – – – (1.4)
Foreign currency adjustment 1.1 3.6 3.0 2.3 10.0
At 31 December 2014 42.3 119.3 83.5 47.1 292.2
Net book value at 31 December 2014 32.3 454.3 51.5 18.1 556.2
Net book value at 31 December 2013 24.1 425.1 45.3 19.4 513.9
Net book value at 1 January 2013 16.8 418.3 55.6 22.8 513.5
Capitalised development costs
Internally generated assets arising from the capitalisation of qualifying development expenditure in 2014 typically 
have a finite expected useful life of around four years. Capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a 
straight line basis. All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits. The total 
amount of research and development activity incurred during 2014 is £49.7m (2013, £47.6m) of which £12.9m (2013, 
£11.6m) was capitalised. 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
129
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Intangible assets continued
Goodwill
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for assessment of impairment in accordance with IAS 36. 
No impairment to goodwill was identified.
Goodwill was tested for impairment for the following cash generating units (CGUs):
 – Performance Materials division
 – Wireless Systems division 
Performance Materials had a goodwill balance of £256.5m at the year end (2013, £237.4m). Wireless Systems 
had a goodwill balance of £197.8m at the year end (2013, £187.7m). All of the recoverable amounts are based 
on value in use.
The key assumptions were:
 – A pre-tax discount rate of 10.6% (2013, 11.6%). 
 – Revenue growth rates for each CGU were based on relevant external market estimates and 
management knowledge. 
The discount rate has been applied to cash flow forecasts for 2015 to perpetuity. 
The forecast cash flows for 2015 – 2017 are based on what has been approved internally by the Board for the 2015 
budget and for the medium term growth plans. Revenue estimates which underpin the forecasts for 2018 – 2019, 
have been based on external market estimates for PCs, Tablets, Smartphones, Transportation and Telecoms but 
after reflecting Management’s views of average selling prices, product penetration trends and their impact on the 
size of the addressable market. Cash flows for 2019 onwards for both divisions have been increased by 3% per 
annum (2013, 3% per annum).
Downside sensitivities have been applied to the cash flow estimates to assess the impact upon the headroom over 
the carrying value of the assets and provide further comfort that no impairment is required. Performance Materials 
has the greatest amount of headroom and Wireless Systems the least. Revenues would have to be some 20% less 
than forecast for each period before some form of impairment would have to be considered.
Other acquired intangible assets
Assets in this class are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits. 
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets:
Brand names – 5 years
Trade secrets – 8 to 15 years
Trade marks and names – 5 to 15 years
Patents – the remaining duration of the 16 year legal right
Licence – the remaining duration of the 19 year legal right
Customer relationships – 10 to 20 years
The expected life assigned to acquired customer relationships is an estimate and is not secured by any legal 
obligation on the customer to continue business with the Group for any finite period. Other than goodwill, 
the Group does not hold any intangible assets with an indefinite life.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
130
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 18 Business combinations
Acquisition of businesses in 2014 
On 17 April 2014, the Group acquired 51% of Model Solution Co.,Ltd (“Model Solution”), an unlisted South 
Korean company specialising in prototype design and manufacturing. The acquisition is in line with the strategy 
of diversifying both the Group geographic reach and customer base. An initial cash consideration of £20.5m 
was paid and a share of borrowings less cash and cash equivalents were acquired of £7.9m. This purchase has 
been accounted for as an acquisition and all intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. 
The fair values are provisional. The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the 
financial statements. 
The Group has elected to measure the non-controlling interest in Model Solution as the proportionate fair value 
of net assets acquired. 
Book and fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Model Solution stated at rates of exchange at the 
date of acquisition, were as follows:
Book  
values  
£m
Provisional 
fair values to 
the Group  
£m
Property, plant and equipment 13.4 13.4
Intangible assets – 16.1
Deferred tax assets 0.1 0.1
Inventories 1.9 1.9
Trade and other receivables 0.9 0.9
Other current financial assets 1.7 1.7
Other non-current assets 0.9 0.9
Trade and other payables (3.0) (3.0)
Income tax payable (0.3) (1.4)
Deferred tax liabilities – (3.5)
Retirement benefit obligations (1.3) (1.3)
Other non-current liabilities – (0.4)
Provisions (0.3) (0.3)
14.0 25.1
Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 1.5
Borrowings (9.4) (9.4)
Net assets acquired 6.1 17.2
Non-controlling interests (49%) (8.4)
Goodwill arising on acquisition 10.7
Net consideration 19.5
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash consideration paid 20.5
Less: Call option at initial fair value (1.0)
19.5
In the period following acquisition, revenue for Model Solution was £17.6m, there was a profit after tax of £0.5m and 
underlying profit before tax was £1.8m. If the acquisition had been held for the full year, Group revenues would have 
been £571.3m and the profit before tax would have been £0.5m lower at £47.6m. Included in the £10.7m of goodwill 
recognised above are certain assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature. 
These items include the expected value of synergies. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible 
for income tax purposes.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
131
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 18 Business combinations continued
In accordance with the Shareholders’ agreement entered into between the Group and Skylake Consortium 
(“Skylake”) to acquire Model Solution the Group and Skylake are respectively granted call and put options which 
entitle the Group to purchase from Skylake and Skylake to sell to the Group Skylake’s 49% interest in Model Solution. 
The call options can be exercised by the Group on 17 April 2017, 2018 or 2019, and the put option can be exercised 
by Skylake on 17 April 2019 and if none of these options are exercised then the Group is committed to acquire the 
49% interest in Model Solution on 17 April 2020. The exercise price for the call and put options will be determined 
in accordance with the Shareholders’ agreement and will be between KRW 34.3bn (£20.1m) and KRW 92.7bn 
(£54.2m).
Financial liability – put option
The financial liability that may become payable under the put option was initially recognised at a fair value of £33.3m 
within non-current liabilities with a corresponding charge directly to other reserves, as a put option written on  
non-controlling interest. The put option liability shall be re-measured at its fair value resulting from the change in the 
expected performance of Model Solution at each balance sheet date, with any resulting gain or loss recognised in 
the consolidated income statement as an exceptional acquisition consideration related item. At 31 December 2014 
the fair value was re-measured as £32.6m with a £0.7m credit recognised in the income statement. In the event that 
the put option lapses unexercised, the liability will be derecognised with a corresponding adjustment to equity. 
Financial asset – the call option
There was a financial asset initially recognised of £1.0m within non-current assets in respect of the call option that 
the Group has over the non-controlling interests with a corresponding credit taken to goodwill. The call option 
asset will be re-measured at its fair value resulting from the change in the expected performance of Model Solution 
at each balance sheet date, with any resulting gain or loss recognised in the consolidated income statement as an 
exceptional acquisition consideration related item. At 31 December 2014 the fair value was re-measured as £1.1m with 
a £0.1m credit recognised in the income statement.
Acquisition of businesses in 2013
On 12 February 2013, Nextreme Thermal Solutions Inc., a US based developer of thin-film thermoelectric 
technologies, was acquired for a total consideration of £12.2m which includes estimated contingent consideration 
payable of £12.0m if certain revenue targets are met over a four year period from 2014 onwards. The maximum 
contingent consideration payable is £38.6m ($60m) if £96.4m ($150m) of revenue is achieved. This purchase 
has been accounted for as an acquisition and all intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. 
The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements. Book and 
fair values of the net assets of the business acquired, stated at rates of exchange at the date of acquisition, were 
as follows:
Book values 
£m
Fair values 
to the Group 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.5
Intangible assets – –
Trade and other receivables 0.1 0.1
Trade and other payables (0.8) (0.8)
Net liabilities acquired (0.2) (0.2)
Goodwill arising on acquisition 12.4
Consideration 12.2
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash consideration –
Net cash acquired 0.1
Contingent consideration (12.0)
(11.9)
Borrowings acquired (0.3)
(12.2)
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
132
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 18 Business combinations continued
The Group has acquired a 100% interest in the acquisition noted above. Revenue in 2013 for the entity acquired was 
£0.2m following acquisition. Loss before tax in 2013, on both an underlying and an IFRS basis, was £(1.7)m following 
acquisition. If the acquisition had been held for the full year in 2013, Group revenues would have been unchanged 
at £537.0m and the profit before tax would have been £0.5m lower at £42.7m. Included in the £12.4m of goodwill 
recognised above are certain assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their 
nature, including the expected value of synergies. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income 
tax purposes.
The estimate of contingent consideration has been reduced to £nil as at 31 December 2014 after a reassessment of 
likely revenues over the four year measurement period from 2014 onwards. The reduction in estimated contingent 
consideration of £6.9m (at an average exchange rate against the US$) has been credited to the income statement.
Details of the Group’s significant subsidiaries are disclosed in the list of ‘Principal subsidiaries’ on page 167. 
19 Inventories
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Raw materials and consumables 20.6 18.5
Work in progress 1.0 1.1
Finished goods 38.6 34.2
60.2 53.8
Expenses relating to inventories written down during the period totalled £nil (2013, £nil).
20 Trade and other receivables
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Trade receivables 117.6 106.2
Other receivables 19.9 10.5
Prepayments and accrued income 8.7 7.0
146.2 123.7
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Sterling 0.4 1.7
Euros 7.8 7.9
US dollars 85.7 76.5
Renminbi 18.8 14.4
Others 4.9 5.7
117.6 106.2
Out of the carrying amount of trade receivables of £117.6m (2013, £106.2m), £44.7m (2013, £43.8m) relates to the top 
ten major customers. 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision 
for impairment. As at 31 December 2014, trade receivables at nominal value of £0.9m (2013, £1.3m) were impaired 
and fully provided for. 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
133
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 20 Trade and other receivables continued
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
At 1 January 1.3 1.9
Charge for the year 0.3 0.5
Amounts written off (0.6) (1.0)
Acquired 0.1 0.1
Foreign currency adjustment (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 0.9 1.3
The provision has been based on regular reviews of the collectability of individual customers’ trade 
receivable balances.
As at 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Total 
£m
Neither past 
due nor 
impaired 
£m
Less than 30 
days 
£m
30-60 days 
£m
60-90 days 
£m
More than 
90 days 
£m
31 December 2014 117.6 107.6 7.3 2.4 0.3 –
31 December 2013 106.2 89.9 12.7 3.0 0.6 –
The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise 
historical information relating to counterparty default rates is used.
21 Cash and cash equivalents
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 64.0 51.5
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets in the group statement of financial 
position) comprises of cash at bank. 
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, “Cash and cash equivalents” comprises the following at 
31 December:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 64.0 51.5
64.0 51.5
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
134
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 22 Borrowings
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Current: Interest Maturity
US Private Placement loans – USD 5.59% 2014 – 58.5
Other short term borrowings 0.5 0.1
Finance leases 0.3 –
0.8 58.6
Non-current:
US Private Placement loans – USD 5.76% 2016 27.6 26.0
US Private Placement loans – USD 3.69% 2020 8.4 –
US Private Placement loans – USD 4.02% 2021 58.9 –
US Private Placement loans – EURO 2.59% 2021 11.7 –
Bilateral revolving bank loans 109.0 76.4
Finance leases 7.1 –
222.7 102.4
Total borrowings 223.5 161.0
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
Within one year
 Bank 0.5 0.1
 US Private Placement loans – 58.5
 Finance lease 0.3 –
Between one and two years
 US Private Placement loans 27.6 26.0
Between two and five years
 Finance leases 7.1 –
 Bank 109.0 76.4
In five years or more
 US Private Placement loans 79.0 –
Total borrowings 223.5 161.0
The impact of foreign currency movements on Group borrowings is disclosed in the analysis of movements in net 
borrowings contained within note 32.
Notes
(a)  There are no borrowings secured on the assets of subsidiary undertakings (2013, £nil). 
(b)   The Group had committed bilateral revolving bank loan facilities of £250m (2013, £235m) which were underwritten in excess of four years. 
Drawings by Group companies under these facilities were £109.0m (2013, £76.4m). Although these drawings are repayable within one year they 
are classified as long term as they can be refinanced under the terms of the facilities.
(c)   Ancillary costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings are amortised over the term of the facility, using the effective interest 
rate method.
(d)   The Group has finance leases due within one year of £0.3m (2013, £nil) for plant and machinery and due beyond one year of £7.1m (2013, £nil) 
for buildings. The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
135
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
2014 2013
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Other 
£m
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Other 
£m
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year 7.7 0.8 7.8 1.5
Later than one year and less than five years 15.2 3.8 12.6 3.5
After five years 7.5 4.8 2.5 5.7
30.4 9.4 22.9 10.7
24 Trade and other payables
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Trade payables 82.2 67.2
Social security costs 1.6 1.7
Other payables 14.5 22.7
Accruals and deferred income 13.2 10.1
111.5 101.7
25 Deferred taxes
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Deferred tax assets
Losses 0.7 1.4
Other temporary differences 3.4 4.9
4.1 6.3
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated tax depreciation 92.5 73.4
Losses (21.3) –
Other temporary differences (1.6) 3.1
69.6 76.5
Movements on deferred tax liabilities during the year were:
Accelerated tax 
depreciation 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2013 73.1 3.0 76.1
Charged to the income statement 1.5 0.2 1.7
Acquisitions – – –
Foreign currency adjustment (1.2) (0.1) (1.3)
At 1 January 2014 73.4 3.1 76.5
Charged to the income statement (9.3) (4.6) (13.9)
Acquisitions 3.6 – 3.6
Foreign currency adjustment 3.5 (0.1) 3.4
At 31 December 2014 71.2 (1.6) 69.6
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences where it is 
probable that there will be taxable profits against which these assets will be offset.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
136
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Deferred taxes continued
Unrecognised tax losses
Deferred tax assets have not been established on trading losses of £24.4m (2013, £17.5m) where it is unlikely that 
future relief would be available at the balance sheet date. Of these losses, £3.5m (2013, £2.8m) have expiry dates 
between 2015 and 2025 and £20.9m (2013, £14.7m) are available indefinitely. Deferred tax assets have not been 
established on capital losses of £4.5m (2013, £5.4m) where it is unlikely that future relief would be available at the 
balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on other deductible temporary differences of 
£33.0m (2013, £38.6m) where their use is restricted indefinitely.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments
Deferred tax of £2.0m (2013, £1.3m) has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where 
it is likely there will be income tax consequences attached to the payment of dividends. No deferred tax has been 
recognised in respect of temporary differences of £6.9m (2013, £16.9m) relating to the unremitted earnings of 
foreign subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is 
probable they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The temporary differences at 31 December 2014 represent 
only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may 
still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by overseas tax jurisdictions 
in which those subsidiaries operate. 
Factors affecting future tax charges
The UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 20% effective 1 April 2015. Disclosure of deferred tax has been adjusted 
to reflect the enactment of the revised rates but with no significant impact on these financial statements.
26 Other non-current liabilities
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Other creditors 1.0 7.9
Accruals and deferred income 0.6 0.4
1.6 8.3
27 Provisions
Warranty  
claims 
£m
Litigation 
and other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2014
Current 0.1 1.4 1.5
Non-current 1.0 4.2 5.2
1.1 5.6 6.7
Provided – 2.9 2.9
Utilised/released – (1.4) (1.4)
Acquisition of businesses in the year – 0.3 0.3
Foreign currency adjustment – 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 2014 1.1 7.7 8.8
 
Analysed as:
Current 0.1 1.7 1.8
Non-current 1.0 6.0 7.0
1.1 7.7 8.8
Warranty claims are in respect of potential liabilities arising from the disposal of businesses.
Other provisions consist primarily of amounts provided in respect of events arising from trade and various other 
provisions that do not fit into distinct categories. The timing of cash outflows for warranty claims and other 
provisions are by their nature uncertain and dependent upon the outcome of related events. The best estimates 
are shown in the table above. 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
137
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s financial instrument risk and capital management objectives, policies and strategies 
are set out in the Chief Financial Officer’s report and in the notes to the financial statements (note 2). 
Financial assets
The financial assets of the Group comprised:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Current
Cash and cash equivalents (note 21) 64.0 51.5
Trade and other receivables 130.6 112.0
Derivative financial instruments – 1.9
194.6 165.4
Non-current
Other non-current receivables 1.0 0.6
Derivative financial instruments 1.1 –
2.1 0.6
Financial liabilities
The financial liabilities of the Group comprised:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Current
Borrowings (note 22) 0.8 58.6
Derivative financial instruments 0.6 –
Trade and other payables (note 24) 110.1 100.2
111.5 158.8
Non-current
Borrowings (note 22) 222.7 102.4
Other non-current liabilities (note 26) 1.6 8.3
Derivative financial instruments 32.6 –
256.9 110.7
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
138
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk profile of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed 
to interest rate risk:
Year ended 31 December 2014
Within 
1 year
1 – 2  
Years
2 – 3  
Years
3 – 4  
Years
4 – 5  
Years
More  
than 5 
Years Total 
Fixed rate
$43m US Private Placement loans at 5.76% due 2016 – 27.6 – – – – 27.6
$13m US Private Placement loans at 3.69% due 2020 – – – – – 8.4 8.4
$92m US Private Placement loans at 4.02% due 2021 – – – – – 58.9 58.9
€15m US Private Placement loans at 2.59% due 2021 – – – – – 11.7 11.7
Finance leases at 8.5% due 2018 – – – 7.1 – – 7.1
Finance leases due 2015 0.3 – – – – – 0.3
Sub Total 0.3 27.6 – 7.1 – 79.0 114.0
Floating rate
Cash and cash equivalents (64.0) – – – – – (64.0)
Current financial assets – – – – – – –
Bank loans 0.5 – – – 109.0 – 109.5
Sub Total (63.5) – – – 109.0 – 45.5
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year. 
Interest on the financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
Year ended 31 December 2013
Within  
1 year
1 – 2  
Years
2 – 3  
Years
3 – 4  
Years
4 – 5  
Years
More  
than 5  
Years Total
Fixed rate
$97m US Private Placement loans at 5.59% due 2014 58.5 – – – – – 58.5
$43m US Private Placement loans at 5.76% due 2016 – – 26.0 – – – 26.0
Sub Total 58.5 – 26.0 – – – 84.5
 
Floating rate
Cash and cash equivalents (51.5) – – – – – (51.5)
Current financial assets – – – – – – –
Bank loans 0.1 – 76.4 – – – 76.5
Sub Total (51.4) – 76.4 – – – 25.0
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group holds forward foreign exchange contracts to manage foreign exchange exposures. The forward contracts 
have a principal value of £120.8m (2013, £105.0m) and are mainly denominated in US Dollar and Chinese Renminbi. 
These contracts have not been designated as cash flow hedges and the decrease in fair value during 2014 of £2.5m 
(2013, £1.3m increase) has been taken to the income statement. These are Level 2 derivative financial instruments 
and there has been no movement between levels during the year.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
139
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Financial instruments continued
Contingent consideration 
The consideration to acquire Nextreme Thermal Solutions Inc. (see note 18) included estimated contingent 
consideration of £12.0m based on future revenue targets being met.
£m
Initial fair value of the contingent consideration on acquisition 12.0
Fair value adjustment (note 7) (4.7)
Exchange adjustment (0.4)
Non-current liability for contingent consideration as at 1 January 2014 6.9
Fair value adjustment (note 7) (6.9)
Exchange adjustment –
Non-current liability for contingent consideration as at 31 December 2014 –
The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are revenue projections for Nextreme from 2014 to 2017 with a 
potential earnout payment based on a multiple of 0.4 times revenue and a discount rate applied as at 31 December 
being a 3 year UK Government bond yield. Revenues are estimated to be below the threshold requirement (£0.3m) 
in each of the years to December 2017 and accordingly there is expected to be no contingent consideration payable. 
In accordance with the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13, contingent consideration is classified as a Level 3 derivative 
financial instrument.
Financial liability – put option
The financial liability that may become payable under a put option in respect of the non-controlling interest in Model 
Solution is recognised at a fair value of £32.6m within non-current liabilities. 
The exercise price for the put option will be calculated by dividing the EBITDA of Model Solution for the year to 
31 March 2019 by EBITDA for the year ended 31 March 2014 and applying this factor against a base price of KRW 
34.3bn (£20.1m). The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are an EBITDA projection for Model Solution for 
the year to 31 March 2019 and a discount rate of 2.86% applied at 31 December 2014.
The financial liability is sensitive to changes in these assumptions. For example a 10% increase in EBITDA for the 
year to 31 March 2019 would result in an increase in the financial liability of £3.3m, while a 10% decrease would result 
in an decrease in the financial liability of £3.3m. An increase in the discount rate by 1% would result in a decrease in 
the financial liability of £1.5m, while a decrease in the discount rate by 1% would result in an increase in the financial 
liability of £1.4m. In accordance with the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13, the put option is classified as a Level 3 
derivative financial instrument.
Financial asset – call option
There is a financial asset recognised of £1.1m within non-current assets in respect of the call option that the Group 
has over the non-controlling interest in Model Solution.
The call options can be exercised by the Group on 17 April 2017, 2018 or 2019. The exercise price for the call option 
will be calculated by dividing the EBITDA of Model Solution for the year to 31 March prior to the date of exercise of 
the call option by EBITDA for the year ended 31 March 2014 and applying this factor against a base price of KRW 
34.3bn (£20.1m). The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are a range of EBITDA projections for Model 
Solution for the years to the end of the financial month prior to the date of exercise of the call option and a discount 
rate being a Korean risk free rate over the period to exercise, determined at 31 December 2014.
The financial asset is sensitive to changes in these assumptions. For example a 10% increase in the base EBITDA 
scenario would result in a decrease in the financial asset of £0.2m, while a 10% decrease would result in an increase 
in the financial assets of £0.3m and a decrease in the discount rate by 1% would result in a decrease in the financial 
asset of £0.1m, while a 1% increase would result in an increase in the financial asset of £0.1m. In accordance with the 
fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13, the call option is classified as a Level 3 derivative financial instrument.
Interest rate and currency profile
The Group’s policy is to maintain an appropriate balance between variable and fixed interest rate borrowings. 
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments are used to manage interest costs. At 31 December 2014 approximately 
49% of debt is at fixed rate. This position is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure it is still appropriate.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
140
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk
The following table shows the sensitivity to a change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of 
the Group’s profit before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings). There is no impact on the Group’s 
equity. The interest rates considered are Sterling, Euro and US Dollar, being the currencies in which the Group have 
historically issued debt and held investments.
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but 
includes those recognised at fair value as well as all non-derivative floating rate financial instruments. 
2014
Effect on profit 
before tax
£m
50 basis points increase in US Dollar interest rates 0.5
50 basis points increase in Sterling interest rates 0.0
50 basis points increase in Euro interest rates 0.1
A 50 basis point decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect. 
2013
50 basis points increase in US Dollar interest rates 0.2
50 basis points increase in Sterling interest rates 0.1
50 basis points increase in Euro interest rates 0.1
A 50 basis point decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect. 
Credit risk
The Group’s customer base is largely focused in the global electronics market where it has leading positions in its 
principal products with customers who themselves have significant market shares. Inevitably this results in levels 
of business and trade receivables that are material in the overall Group context. The Group’s maximum exposure 
to credit risk is equal to the carrying amount of the financial assets.
Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to transactional currency exposures on sales and purchases denominated in currencies other 
than the functional currency of the subsidiary. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US dollar, Euro and 
Renminbi. The Group policy is to match out the sales and purchases in these currencies wherever possible and then 
hedge out the residual exposures.
The following table shows the sensitivity to a possible change in US Dollar, Euro and Renminbi exchange rates 
against sterling with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s profit before tax (due to changes in the fair 
value of monetary assets, liabilities and forward currency contracts) and the Group’s equity (due to changes 
in the fair value of forward currency hedges and net investment hedges). 
Effect on profit 
before tax 
£m
Effect on 
equity 
£m
2014
10% appreciation of the US Dollar 9.3 (18.9)
10% appreciation of the Euro 0.3 (2.7)
10% appreciation of the Renminbi (1.1) –
2013
10% appreciation of the US Dollar 6.2 (12.1)
10% appreciation of the Euro 0.6 (2.9)
10% appreciation of the Renminbi (1.4) –
A 10% depreciation of the stated currencies would have an equal and opposite effect.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
141
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Financial instruments continued
Net investment hedging
Included in borrowings are US $295.5m (£189.9m) and €35.0m (£27.4m) of debt which have been designated as a 
hedge of the net investments in the United States and Europe subsidiaries. This is being used to hedge the Group’s 
exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments. Gains or losses on the retranslation of the borrowings are 
transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries.
Liquidity risk
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2014 and 2013 
based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Year ended 31 December 2014
On  
demand  
£m
Within  
1 Year  
£m
1 to 5  
Years  
£m
More  
than 
5 Years  
£m
Total  
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 5.2 160.7 73.5 239.4
Trade and other payables – 143.0 – – 143.0
Other non-current liabilities – – 1.6 – 1.6
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 0.6 – – 0.6
– 148.8 162.3 73.5 384.6
Year ended 31 December 2013
On  
demand  
£m
Within  
1 Year  
£m
1 to 5  
Years  
£m
More  
than 
5 Years  
£m
Total  
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 61.8 105.8 – 167.6
Trade and other payables – 100.2 – – 100.2
Other non-current liabilities – – 8.3 – 8.3
Forward foreign exchange contracts – – – – –
– 162.0 114.1 – 276.1
The Group ensures that there are sufficient levels of committed facilities, cash and cash equivalents in place to meet 
its financial commitments as they fall due.
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
The Group’s financial policy is to maintain committed borrowing facilities, which provide substantial headroom over 
and above its day-to-day borrowing requirements. 
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December were as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Expiring between two and three years – 158.1
Expiring between four and five years 139.6 –
139.6 158.1
Loan covenants
The principal covenants in the Group’s committed loan facilities and loan note agreements that place restrictions on 
net borrowings are based on UK GAAP and are set out below:
Interest cover
The interest cover covenant is for earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax and amortisation (“EBITA”) to be 
not less than 3.0 times interest payable.
Net borrowings: EBITDA ratio
Net borrowings must not exceed 3.5 times earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (“EBITDA”).
The Group was in compliance with the covenants detailed above at 31 December 2014.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
142
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Financial instruments continued
Fair value of financial instruments
The US Private Placement loans with a book value of £106.8m (2013, £84.5m) have an estimated fair value of 
£110.2m (2013, £88.8m) which has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing coupon rates as at 
31 December 2014.
There are no material differences between fair value and book value on any of the other financial instruments.
29 Issued share capital
Issued and fully paid
2014 2013
Shares £m Shares £m
Ordinary shares of 28.125p each 
At 1 January 267,656,570 75.3 267,410,920 75.2
Issued for exercise of share options 250,430 – 245,650 0.1
At 31 December 267,907,000 75.3 267,656,570 75.3
267,907,000 ordinary shares of 28.125p each were in issue at the year end (2013, 267,656,570 shares of 
28.125p each). 
At 31 December 2014, options to subscribe for 1,073,759 ordinary shares at prices between 211p and 397p were 
outstanding under the Company’s executive share option schemes (2013, 1,256,306 ordinary shares at prices 
between 150p and 397p). Options outstanding under the schemes are held by 5 individuals and are exercisable at 
various times up to 4 April 2024. No further options have been granted since the year end.
30 Share based payments
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 64 to 95, sets out the general terms and conditions for long term 
incentives and the vesting requirements for the 2014 awards. 
Performance Conditions for awards made in 2012 under the LTIP and Option Plan 
Performance conditions are measured over a single three year period and there is no provision for re-testing 
therefore the awards lapse if the performance targets are not met.
Two measures were used to determine the extent to which awards made in 2012 would vest: achievement of a 
Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) target and an underlying Earnings per Share (“EPS”) target. For LTIP awards 
made in 2012, 75% is based on achievement of the TSR target and 25% is based on achievement of the EPS target. 
For awards under the Option Plan, 75% is based on EPS and 25% on TSR. The EPS and TSR conditions are set 
out below.
TSR condition
For 2012 a list of 20 companies was selected as the comparator group to be used for these purposes:
Ampenol Invensys Sanmina TT Electronics
AVX Meggitt Senior TTM Technologies
Bodycote Molex Smiths Group Ultra Electronics
CSR Morgan Crucible Spectris Vishay Intertechnology
E2V Technologies Oxford Instruments Spirent Communications Wolfson Microelectronics
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
143
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30 Share based payments continued
The level of vesting of the applicable portion of the award (75% of the award under the LTIP; 25% of the award under 
the Option Plan) is dependent on Laird’s relative TSR performance over three years against this group of companies, 
as follows:
Total Shareholder Return  
Performance Level
Amount of Award Vesting for TSR Measure  
%
Upper Quartile  
Median to Upper Quartile  
Below Median
Full Vesting  
Pro-rata between 30% and full Vesting  
Nil
EPS condition
The level of vesting of the applicable portion of the award (75% of the award under the Option Plan; 25% of the 
award under the LTIP) is dependent on Laird’s EPS performance for the 2014 financial year, as follows:
Level of vesting in 2015 for EPS Measure Applicable Performance Target: 
Average Annual Growth in Continuing Earnings  
per share
Threshold 30% vesting 
Full vesting
RPI + 5% p.a 
RPI + 10% p.a
There is pro-rata vesting on a straight-line basis where EPS is between the above two targets.
Performance Conditions for awards made in 2013 under The Laird PLC 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Nil-Cost Awards will vest based on the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance, on a ranked basis 
relative to the FTSE 250 (excluding companies in the financial service sector and investment trusts) measured over a 
three year period as follows: 
Total Shareholder Return  
Performance Level
Amount of nil-cost award vesting  
%
Upper Quartile 
Median to Upper Quartile 
Below Median
Full vesting 
Pro-rata between 25% and full vesting 
Nil
In addition, a nil-cost award will not vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that there has been a 
sustained improvement in the Company’s underlying financial performance. 
Market Value Options will vest based on the average annual growth in the Company’s Earnings Per Share over a 
three year period in line with the following performance schedule:
Average Annual Growth in Continuing  
Earnings per share 
Level of market value option vesting
13% p.a. 
Between 8% p.a. and 13% p.a. 
8% p.a.
Full vesting 
Pro-rata between 25% and full vesting 
Threshold 25% vesting
Earnings per share is calculated with reference to underlying earnings per share before exceptional items, the 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss 
on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition transaction 
costs as stated in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Shares awarded under the Medium Term Incentive Plan (MTIP), vest three years after they have been awarded to the 
employee at nil cost, provided the employee is still employed by the Group. There are vesting conditions attached to 
the MTIP awards which specify profit and EPS targets for the years to December 2012 and 2013. 
Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) vest three years after they have been awarded to the 
employee at nil cost, provided the employee is still employed by the Group. 
All share based payments are equity settled. An expense of £1.8m was recognised in the year (2013, £1.4m) before 
employer’s national insurance and was based on the fair value of the LTIP shares awarded, the RSP shares awarded 
and the share options granted.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
144
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30 Share based payments continued
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, end of the year and those 
granted during the year.
2014 
Number
2013 
Number
Outstanding as at 1 January 955,275 1,133,451
Granted during the year 262,375 453,057
Lapsed during the year (36,382) (321,462)
Vested and exercised during the year (206,637) (309,771)
Outstanding as at 31 December 974,631 955,275
The following table shows the number of MTIP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
2014 
Number
2013 
Number
Outstanding as at 1 January 557,009 1,170,372
Granted during the year – 7,607
Lapsed during the year – (620,970)
Vested and exercised during the year – –
Outstanding as at 31 December 557,009 557,009
The following table shows the number of RSP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
2014 
Number
2013 
Number
Outstanding as at 1 January 1,968,870 2,065,956
Granted during the year 582,045 741,200
Lapsed during the year (98,393) (192,900)
Vested and exercised during the year (630,700) (645,386)
Outstanding as at 31 December 1,821,822 1,968,870
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
145
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30 Share based payments continued
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share 
options issued under the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan.
2014 
Number
2014 
WAEP (p)
2013 
Number
2013 
WAEP (p)
Outstanding as at 1 January
 Option prices 115-205p 174,374 150 580,882 141
 Option prices 206-280p 945,328 230 1,047,767 246
 Option prices 281-397p 136,604 397 277,242 397
1,256,306 237 1,905,891 236
Issued 233,910 303 382,601 211
Exercised
 Option prices 115-205p (250,430) 215 (245,650) 138
Lapsed (166,027) 235 (786,536) 252
1,073,759 257 1,256,306 237
 Option prices 115-205p – – 174,374 150
 Option prices 206-280p 737,252 223 945,328 230
 Option prices 281-397p 336,507 332 136,604 397
1,073,759 257 1,256,306 237
Exercisable at 31 December 206,512 338 448,595 305
All options in the table above were recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as noted above. The weighted average 
share price at the date of exercise in 2014 was 311p (2013, 224p). For the share options outstanding at 31 December 
2014, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.8 years (2013, 6.0 years). 
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including the market based 
performance conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of 
calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. The non-market 
performance conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating 
the fair value. 
The weighted average fair value (in pence) of LTIP, MTIP, RSP and share options granted during the year was 
as follows:
2014 2013
LTIP 159 111
MTIP – 192
RSP 250 185
Share options 82 63
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
146
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30 Share based payments continued
The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 
31 December 2014.
LTIP, MTIP 
& RSP 
2014
LTIP, MTIP 
& RSP 
2013
ESOP 
2014
ESOP 
2013
Dividend Yield (%) 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0
Expected Share Price volatility (%) 35 40 35 40
Expected comparator volatility (%) 11-99 13-98 N/A N/A
Risk-free interest rate (%) N/A N/A 2.3 1.5
Expected life of LTIP/option (years) 3.0 3.0 7.0 7.0
Weighted average share price (p) 288.8 209.3 303.0 210.6
The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise 
patterns that may occur. 
The expected share price volatility is based on historical volatility; average of monthly activity over the last three 
years. Expected volatility reflects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which 
may not necessarily prove to be the actual outcome. Dividends are not payable on shares prior to vesting and this 
is taken into account in calculating the fair value. 
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting.
31 Reserves
Translation reserve
The translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements 
of foreign subsidiaries. It is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments in foreign operations.
Treasury shares
The investment in Laird shares as held by the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”), as described below, 
are treated as treasury shares for accounting purposes. 
The Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”)
The Trust purchases and holds shares in Laird PLC for the benefit of current and former employees. These shares 
may be used to satisfy options and awards. The Trust, which is financed by a loan of £4.4m from the Company, held 
754,916 ordinary shares at 31 December 2014 (2013, 1,242,253). Whilst shares are held within the Trust, the voting 
rights in respect of those shares are exercisable by the trustee, in accordance with its fiduciary duties. The shares 
held by the Trust had a total market value at that date of £2.3m (2013, £3.4m).
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
147
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 32 Additional cash flow information
Cash generation from operations
Continuing operations
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Profit after taxation 50.2 30.6
Depreciation and other non-cash items
Depreciation 16.1 14.9
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment – –
Amortisation of capitalised development costs 4.8 3.6
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 13.3 13.6
Exceptional capitalised development costs write downs 1.2 0.1
Exceptional acquisition contingent consideration reduction (6.9) (4.7)
Exceptional change in valuation of put and call options (0.8) –
Share based payments 1.8 1.4
Financial instruments – fair value adjustments 2.5 (1.3)
Pension charges 0.6 0.3
Other net finance costs 8.0 7.1
Taxation (2.1) 12.6
Net pension contributions (0.6) (0.3)
Changes in working capital 
Inventories (2.7) (3.9)
Trade and other receivables (16.5) (11.0)
Trade, other payables and provisions 4.7 1.4
(14.5) (13.5)
Cash generated from continuing operations 73.6 64.4
Note
(a)  Changes in working capital from continuing operations are after creditor decreases of £2.9m (2013, £5.5m increases) in respect of 
exceptional costs.
Discontinued operations
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Profit after taxation – 0.2
Profit on disposal of businesses before taxation – (0.4)
Taxation – 0.4
Changes in working capital 
Trade, other payables and provisions (0.3) 0.3
(0.3) 0.3
Cash generated from discontinued operations (0.3) 0.5
Cash generated from operations 73.3 64.9
Note
(a)  Changes in working capital from discontinued operations are after creditor decreases of £0.3m (2013, £0.3m increases) in respect of 
exceptional costs.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
148
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 32 Additional cash flow information continued
Net cash outflow on acquisitions and disposals
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Acquisition of businesses
Consideration:
Cash consideration (20.5) –
Net cash acquired 1.5 0.1
Net cash (outflow)/inflow on acquisition of businesses (19.0) 0.1
Borrowings acquired (9.4) (0.3)
Disposal of businesses
Consideration:
Net cash (outflow)/inflow on disposal of businesses (0.3) 2.8
Analysis of movements in net borrowings
Year to 31 December 2014
At 1 January 
2014  
£m
Cash flow  
£m
 Acquisitions  
£m
Non-cash 
changes  
£m
Exchange 
differences  
£m
At 31 
December 
2014  
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 51.5 10.7 – – 1.8 64.0
Current financial assets – (1.7) 1.7 – – –
Loans due within one year (58.6) 60.0 (2.2) – – (0.8)
Loans due after more than one year (102.4) (104.2) (7.2) – (8.9) (222.7)
Total (109.5) (35.2) (7.7) – (7.1) (159.5)
Year to 31 December 2013
At 1 January  
2013  
£m
Cash flow  
£m
 Acquisitions  
£m
Non-cash 
changes  
£m
Exchange 
differences  
£m
At 31 
December 
 2013  
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 68.7 (17.3) – – 0.1 51.5
Loans due within one year (0.3) 0.6 (0.3) (62.0) 3.4 (58.6)
Loans due after more than one year (175.2) 11.7 – 62.0 (0.9) (102.4)
Total (106.8) (5.0) (0.3) – 2.6 (109.5)
The current financial assets are cash deposits which have a deposit term of greater than 3 months and so cannot be 
classified as cash or cash equivalents.
33 Capital commitments
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Future capital expenditure not provided in the accounts
Contracts placed 0.2 0.1
34 Contingent liabilities
There are legal claims against the Company or its subsidiary undertakings but none where the Board takes the view 
that it is likely that damages will be awarded against the Group which would have a materially adverse effect on its 
financial position. 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
149
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Post employment benefit obligations
Pension and severance schemes
The Group operates a number of schemes of both the defined benefit and defined contribution types.
Approximately 250 employees (2013, 29) are members of five different defined benefit schemes and these schemes 
have approximately 1,400 (2013, 1,600) deferred and current pensioners. The employer contributions made to these 
schemes during the year were £0.6m (2013, £0.3m). 
The total assessed value of the schemes’ assets at 31 December 2014, at their market value, is estimated at £118.5m 
(2013, £103.3m) and the liabilities estimated at £115.4m (2013, £104.4m). 
The Group has adopted IFRIC 14 which, depending on the rules of individual schemes, allows the Group to recognise 
pensions surpluses on the statement of financial position where there is an unconditional right to a refund or benefit 
available in the form of reduced contributions. The resultant aggregate net pension liability under IAS 19 is £1.7m 
(2013, £3.7m liability). 
Description of the schemes 
UK 
In the UK the Group supports the Laird Pension Scheme which is a funded arrangement providing defined benefits 
on a final salary basis. The Group also operates an unapproved arrangement which provides unfunded defined 
benefits on a final salary basis to certain members who were previously subject to the HMRC pension schemes 
earnings cap. Both of the UK arrangements are closed to new entrants. 
The Laird Pension Scheme makes up approximately 88% of the defined benefit liabilities of the Group. 
The Laird Pension Scheme operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustee on behalf 
of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation. The scheme is 
subject to the scheme specific funding requirements as outlined in UK legislation. The most recent scheme specific 
funding valuation was at 1 January 2012. 
The Laird Pension Scheme’s investment strategy is to invest 25% in return-seeking assets and 75% in bonds and 
annuities. This strategy reflects the scheme’s liability profile whilst aiming to minimise long term costs by maximising 
return. The scheme’s assets are held separately from those of the Group. 
Belgium 
In Belgium the Group operates the Emerson and Cuming Pension Plan which is a funded, insured lump sum defined 
benefit scheme and the Emerson and Cuming Pre-Pension Plan which is an unfunded plan where the employer pays 
a monthly indemnity until the retirement date on top of the unemployment allowances paid by the social security. 
Germany 
In Germany the Group operates the Cattron-Theimeg Europe GmbH & Co. KG Pension Plan. This is a funded defined 
benefit scheme currently providing pension benefits to 7 pensioners (2013, 7).
Sweden
Within Sweden, the Group operates a scheme, included within a multiemployer plan, for its employees which is 
insured with Alecta. This scheme is a defined benefit scheme, but Alecta is currently unable to provide sufficient 
information to report the Group’s proportional share of the defined benefit commitments and the assets under 
management and expenses associated with the scheme. Consequently, Alecta cannot provide the information 
regarding the Group’s proportional share of the surplus or deficit in the scheme. As a result the scheme is accounted 
for as if it were a defined contribution scheme, although it is actually a defined benefit scheme.
Korea
Within Korea, the Group operates the Model Solution severance scheme under Korean Labour law. This provides 
a payment to an employee in the event their service is terminated, if they resign or if they retire. The lump sum 
payment is linked to years of service.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
150
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Post employment benefit obligations continued
The benefits provided, the approach to funding and the legal basis of the non UK plans reflect their local 
environments. IAS 19 requires that the discount rate is set according to the level of market yields on either corporate 
or government bonds in the relevant markets.
The market value of the schemes’ assets, the present value of the schemes’ liabilities and the net pension assets 
and liability under IAS 19 at 31 December were as follows:
Schemes  
in surplus  
with a  
right to a  
 refund  
2014  
£m
Other  
schemes 
 2014  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Schemes  
in surplus  
with a  
right to a  
 refund 
 2013  
£m
Other  
schemes 
 2013  
£m
Total  
2013  
£m
Annuities 7.0 – 7.0 7.0 – 7.0
Equities
– UK 2.4 – 2.4 2.7 – 2.7
– Overseas 26.7 – 26.7 24.5 – 24.5
Gilts and bonds
– Government backed 61.0 – 61.0 52.2 – 52.2
– Investment grade corporate bonds 17.3 – 17.3 14.5 – 14.5
Other including cash 0.5 3.6 4.1 0.5 1.9 2.4
Total market value of assets 114.9 3.6 118.5 101.4 1.9 103.3
Present value of scheme liabilities (101.2) (14.2) (115.4) (94.0) (10.4) (104.4)
Funded status 13.7 (10.6) 3.1 7.4 (8.5) (1.1)
Disallowed assets (4.8) – (4.8) (2.6) – (2.6)
Surplus/(deficit) in the schemes 8.9 (10.6) (1.7) 4.8 (8.5) (3.7)
The mortality assumption used at the 2014 year end (and 2013 year end) is based on the SAPS all lives tables with 
a 90% multiplier for Executives and Directors and 110% for all other members, appropriate for each member’s year 
of birth. Allowance is made for improvements in line with CMI (2011) projections with a 1.5% pa long term trend 
from 2002. The expected lifetime of a participant at 31 December 2014 who is age 65 and the expected lifetime 
of a participant who will be age 65 in 15 years are shown in years below based on these mortality tables:
Age
Other members
Executive and director 
members
Males Females Males Females
65 22.1 24.4 23.9 26.1
65 in 15 years 23.7 26.2 25.5 27.9
For IAS 19 the schemes’ liabilities have been calculated under the projected unit method and the main financial 
assumptions were inflation of 3.2% per annum (2013, 3.6%), salary increases of 4.2% – 5.2% per annum (2013,  
4.6% – 5.6%) and a discount rate for liabilities of 3.6% per annum (2013, 4.4%).
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
151
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Post employment benefit obligations continued
Analysis of the defined benefit cost for the year ended 31 December:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Current service cost 0.9 0.4
Total charge to operating profit 0.9 0.4
Net interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset) – (0.1)
Charge to income statement after net interest 0.9 0.3
Immediate recognition of (gains)/losses – 0.1
Total charge to income statement before deduction of tax 0.9 0.4
The charge in respect of defined contribution schemes was £2.0m during 2014 (2013, £1.9m).
Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows:
2014 2013
Total  
£m
Funded 
plans  
£m
Un-funded 
plans  
£m
Total  
£m
Funded 
plans  
£m
Un-funded 
plans  
£m
As at 1 January 104.4 98.0 6.4 100.5 94.2 6.3
Current service cost 0.9 0.9 – 0.4 0.3 0.1
Interest cost 4.5 4.2 0.3 4.3 4.0 0.3
Actuarial gains and losses – financial 
assumptions
8.3 7.9 0.4 4.1 3.7 0.4
Actuarial gains and losses – experience (0.1) (0.1) – (0.5) – (0.5)
Benefits paid by the fund (4.2) (4.2) – (4.1) (4.1) –
Benefits paid by the Group (0.5) (0.3) (0.2) (0.4) (0.2) (0.2)
Acquisition 2.3 2.3 – – – –
Currency (0.2) (0.2) – 0.1 0.1 –
As at 31 December 115.4 108.5 6.9 104.4 98.0 6.4
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are analysed as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
As at 1 January 103.3 102.7
Employer contributions 0.6 0.3
Benefits paid by the fund (4.2) (4.1)
Interest income 4.5 4.4
Return on assets excluding interest 13.2 –
Acquisition 1.1 –
Currency – –
As at 31 December 118.5 103.3
The movement for the year in the statement of comprehensive income is:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Other actuarial gains/(losses) 5.0 (3.6)
Movement in disallowed assets (2.2) 1.1
 2.8 (2.5)
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
152
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Post employment benefit obligations continued
Employer contributions of £0.6m (2013, £0.3m) during the year include £nil (2013, £nil) of additional payments 
made over and above regular contributions.
During 2014 the Group acquired 51% of Model Solution which operates a defined benefit severance plan. 
The scheme has approximately 225 members.
Expected cash flows 
Over the year to 31 December 2015 the Group is expected to contribute 32.3% of pensionable salaries in respect of 
Ordinary Section members and 53.3% of pensionable salaries in respect of Executive Section members of the Laird 
Pension Scheme. In addition, the Group will meet the cost of Pension Protection Levies, death in service premiums 
and other administration expenses associated with the Laird Pension Scheme. The Group is expected to make 
contributions of approximately £0.1m to the Emerson and Cuming Pension Plan and £0.1m to the Swedish scheme 
insured with Alecta. 
The Group estimates that the total value of contributions to the defined benefit schemes will be £0.7m in 2015.
The average duration of the liabilities of the Laird Pension Scheme is approximately 17 years. 
Key risks
The ultimate cost of the schemes to the Group will depend upon actual future events rather than the assumptions 
made. Many of the assumptions made are unlikely to be borne out in practice and as such the cost of the schemes 
may be higher (or lower) than disclosed. In general, the risk to the Group is that the assumptions underlying the 
disclosures, or the calculation of contribution requirements are not borne out in practice and the cost to the Group 
is higher than expected. 
More specifically, some of the significant risks are detailed below: 
 – Asset volatility: The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields 
whereas the schemes hold a mixture of investments; if assets underperform the corporate bond yield, this may 
create a deficit. 
 – Inflation risk: The majority of the benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to 
higher liabilities. 
 – Changes in corporate bond yields: A fall in corporate bond yields will lead to an increase in liabilities.  
This will be only partially offset by an increase in the value of the corporate bonds held by the schemes. 
Sensitivity analysis
The results in these disclosures are inherently volatile, particularly the figures shown on the balance sheet.  
The table below shows the approximate sensitivity of the balance sheet position to changes in assumptions 
to illustrate this volatility
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% Increase by £7.5m
Inflation Decrease by 0.5% 
Increase by 0.5%
Decrease by £6.0m 
Increase by £6.0m
Assumed life expectancy at age 65 0.25% reduction in the long term  
trend of 1.5% to 1.25%
Decrease by £1.5m
Methods and assumptions used in sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analyses shown above have been calculated based on approximate adjustments to the scheme 
liabilities using a consistent methodology with that used to calculate the liabilities. The impact on the liabilities has 
been rounded to the nearest £0.5m. 
The sensitivity analyses to price inflation include the impact of a change in both Retail Price Inflation and Consumer 
Price Inflation, as well as those assumptions which are derived relative to these measures (revaluation of deferred 
pensions and increases to pensions in payment). For this purpose it has been assumed that the differences between 
RPI/CPI and these related assumptions remains the same unless there are any caps or floors on the pension 
increases, in which case these have been applied. 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
153
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Fixed assets
2 Tangible assets 0.2 0.1
3 Investments 1,122.0 1,069.3
1,122.2 1,069.4
Current assets
4 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 7.2 10.3
5 Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 159.3 197.1
Cash at bank 10.5 10.4
177.0 217.8
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
6 Borrowings – (58.5)
8 Other (9.8) (8.5)
(9.8) (67.0)
Net current assets 167.2 150.8
Total assets less current liabilities 1,289.4 1,220.2
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
6 Borrowings (215.6) (102.4)
8 Other (544.1) (579.1)
(759.7) (681.5)
Net assets excluding pension deficit 529.7 538.7
10 Pension deficit (6.9) (6.4)
522.8 532.3
Capital and reserves
11 Ordinary share capital 75.3 75.3
12 Share premium account 271.7 271.2
12 Retained earnings 177.5 188.2
12 Treasury shares (1.7) (2.4)
Equity shareholders’ funds 522.8 532.3
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
D C LOCKWOOD 
J C SILVER 
Directors
Parent company balance sheet
as at 31 December 2014
154
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements of parent company
for the year ended 31 December 2014
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation 
The accounts of Laird PLC are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The accounts have been 
prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial 
instruments and accounting for pensions under FRS 17. This is in accordance with applicable UK accounting 
standards. As consolidated financial information for financial instruments and financial risk management has been 
disclosed under IFRS 7 in the Group accounts, the parent is exempt from FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. 
The disclosures in respect of the Company are included in the Group accounts. Pensions are disclosed in accordance 
with FRS 17. The financial statements present information about the Company as an individual undertaking and not 
about the Group. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 1 ‘Cash Flow Statements’ 
and has not produced a cash flow statement and also the exemption in FRS 8 not to disclose certain intra-
group transactions. 
Profit and loss
As permitted by the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has not presented its own 
profit and loss account. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation of fixed assets evenly over their expected useful lives, 
principally as follows:
Computer equipment 5 years or less
Motor vehicles 4 years
Other plant and machinery 13 years or less
A proportion of one year’s depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Pensions
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to the operating profit or 
loss in the year. The full cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service and gains and losses 
arising on unanticipated settlements or curtailments are also charged to the operating profit or loss in the year. 
The expected return on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the market value of scheme assets 
at the start of the year and the expected increase in liabilities of the schemes are included within other finance 
(charges)/income. Differences between actual and expected returns on assets during the year are recognised in 
the statement of recognised gains and losses in the year together with differences from changes in assumptions. 
The deficit on defined benefit pension schemes, net of deferred tax, is reported on the balance sheet as the pension 
liability. The accounts include pension schemes where the parent company is the principal employer.
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Dividends
Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they 
become a legal liability of the Company.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but which have not reversed at 
the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay 
more, or a right to pay less, or to receive more tax subject to the following:
(a)   Deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary assets such as property unless a binding 
sale agreement exists at the balance sheet date. Where rollover relief is available on an asset then deferred tax is 
not recognised.
(b)  Deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries unless dividends have been accrued as 
receivable or there is a binding agreement to distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date.
(c)  Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Assets are regarded 
as recoverable when it is regarded as more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits from which the 
future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
155
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 1 Accounting policies continued
Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency 
assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Financial assets 
Debtors are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Where the 
time value of money is material, debtors are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made when there is objective 
evidence that the Company will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability 
of recovery is assessed as being remote. The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset 
or group of financial assets is impaired. Gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account when the loans 
and receivables are derecognised or impaired. 
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, inclusive of any transaction costs. Measurement after 
initial recognition is at amortised cost, with the changes in the carrying amount being taken through the profit and 
loss account.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial 
recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are 
recognised respectively in finance income and finance expense.
Derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as currency swap contracts and interest rate swaps to 
hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair 
value is negative. 
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for 
contracts with similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference 
to market values for similar instruments.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
taken to the profit and loss account. 
Share based payments
In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 20, the expense recognised in the Company profit and loss 
account relates to equity settled grants made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on 1 January 2005.
The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), Medium Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) and Restricted Share Plan 
(RSP) shares awarded is estimated at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking into 
account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP, MTIP and RSP shares were awarded including market based 
performance conditions. The fair value of share options granted is estimated at the date of grant using a binomial 
lattice method of calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. 
Non-market performance conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. 
For grants that ultimately do not vest, charges previously made are reversed except that an expense is recognised 
for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as vesting irrespective of 
whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided all the other vesting conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market 
conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a 
market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. 
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and loss 
account, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms 
had not been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value 
of the share based payment, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date 
of cancellation or settlement, and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately. 
Notes to the financial statements of parent company 
continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
156
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2 Tangible assets
The fixed assets of the Company were acquired at a cost of £1.1m (2013, £1.0m) and have accumulated depreciation 
of £0.9m (2013, £0.9m) charged against them. There were £0.1m of additions, no disposals and depreciation in the 
year was £nil (2013, £0.1m).
3 Investments in subsidiaries
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Shares in subsidiaries at cost 1,136.9 1,084.2
Less provisions for diminution in value (14.9) (14.9)
1,122.0 1,069.3
Principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2014 are disclosed in the Laird PLC consolidated financial 
statements on page 167.
The movement in the net book value of investments in subsidiaries during the year was as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
At 1 January 1,069.3 766.0
Additions 52.7 303.3
At 31 December 1,122.0 1,069.3
The investment of £52.7m during 2014 was in Laird S.R.O. which was acquired from a subsidiary undertaking.
4 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 6.2 5.0
Derivative financial instruments 0.3 4.7
Prepayments and accrued income 0.7 0.5
Taxation – 0.1
7.2 10.3
5 Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 159.3 197.1
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
157
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 6 Borrowings
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Current: Interest Maturity
US Private Placement loans – USD 5.59% 2014 – 58.5
– 58.5
Non-current:
US Private Placement loans – USD 5.76% 2016 27.6 26.0
US Private Placement loans – USD 3.69% 2020 8.4 –
US Private Placement loans – USD 4.02% 2021 58.9 –
US Private Placement loans – EURO 2.59% 2021 11.7 –
Bilateral revolving bank loans 109.0 76.4
215.6 102.4
Total borrowings 215.6 160.9
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
Within one year
 US Private Placement Loans – 58.5
Between one and two years
 US Private Placement Loans 27.6 –
Between two and five years
 Bank 109.0 76.4
 US Private Placement Loans – 26.0
In five years or more
 US Private Placement Loans 79.0 –
Total borrowings 215.6 160.9
The impact of foreign currency movements on Group borrowings is disclosed in the analysis of movements in net 
borrowings contained within note 32.
Notes
(a) Company borrowings are unsecured. 
(b)  The Company had committed bilateral revolving bank loan facilities of £250m (2013, £235m) which were underwritten in excess of four years. 
Drawings by Group companies under these facilities were £109.0m (2013, £76.4m). Although these drawings are repayable within one year 
they are classified as long term as they can be refinanced under the terms of the facilities. 
(c)  Ancillary costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings are amortised over the term of the facility, using the effective 
interest rate method.
7 Financial instruments
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” and has 
not disclosed information required by that standard as the Group’s consolidated financial statements, in which the 
Company is included, provide equivalent disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”.
Notes to the financial statements of parent company 
continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
158
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 8 Other creditors
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Due within one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3.7 4.7
Derivative financial instruments 0.9 0.2
Social security costs 0.2 0.2
Other creditors 3.0 2.5
Accruals and deferred income 1.1 0.9
Taxation 0.9 –
9.8 8.5
Due after more than one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 544.1 579.1
9 Deferred taxation
Deferred tax liabilities have been recognised on other temporary differences of £nil (2013, £nil). 
The amount of deferred tax that has not been provided on non-trading losses is £9.2m (2013, £9.1m) and other 
deductible temporary differences is £1.0m (2013, £2.1m) where it is unlikely that future relief would be available 
at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on capital losses of £4.5m (2013, £5.4m) 
where it is unlikely that future relief would be available at the balance sheet date.
10 Pension schemes
The Company operates two defined benefit schemes.
5 employees (2013, 5) are members of these defined benefit schemes and these schemes have approximately 1,400 
(2013, 1,500) deferred and current pensioners. The employer contributions made to these schemes during the year 
were £0.1m (2013, £0.2m). 
The total assessed value of the schemes’ assets at 31 December 2014 at their market value is estimated at £114.9m 
(2013, £101.4m) and the liabilities estimated at £108.1m (2013, £100.4m). 
The market value of the schemes’ assets, the present value of the schemes’ liabilities and the net pension liability 
under FRS 17 at 31 December were as follows:
Total 
2014 
£m
Total 
2013 
£m
Annuities 7.0 7.0
Equities 29.1 27.1
Gilts and bonds 78.3 66.7
Other including cash 0.5 0.6
Total market value of assets 114.9 101.4
Present value of scheme liabilities (108.1) (100.4)
Funded status 6.8 1.0
Disallowed assets (13.7) (7.4)
Deficit in the schemes (6.9) (6.4)
The expected long term rates of return on gilts and bonds are estimated at 3.9% per annum (2013, 3.4%) and those 
for equities at 7.3% per annum (2013, 7.4%). The returns on the annuities match the relevant liabilities.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
159
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10 Pension schemes continued
Asset return assumptions have been derived by considering best estimates for the expected long term real rates 
of return from the main asset classes. For gilts and corporate bonds, a return in line with the returns available in 
the markets for these assets has been assumed. For equities, a higher rate of return than for bond assets has been 
assumed, to reflect the greater returns anticipated over the long term from a mixture of UK and overseas equities.
The mortality assumption used at the 2014 year end (and 2013 year end) is based on the SAPS all lives tables with 
a 90% multiplier for Executives and Directors and 110% for all other members, appropriate for each member’s year 
of birth. Allowance is made for improvements in line with CMI (2011) projections with a 1.5% pa long term trend 
from 2002. The expected lifetime of a participant at 31 December 2013 who is age 65 and the expected lifetime 
of a participant who will be age 65 in 15 years are shown in years below based on these mortality tables:
Age
Other members
Executive and director 
members
Males Females Males Females
65 22.1 24.4 23.9 26.1
65 in 15 years 23.7 26.2 25.5 27.9
For FRS 17 the schemes’ liabilities have been calculated under the projected unit method and the main financial 
assumptions were inflation of 3.2% per annum (2013, 3.6%), salary increases of 4.2% – 5.2% per annum (2013, 4.6% – 
5.6%) and a discount rate for liabilities of 3.6% per annum (2013, 4.4%).
Analysis of the defined benefit cost for the year ended 31 December:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Current service cost 0.1 0.3
Total charge to operating profit 0.1 0.3
Expected return on pension investments (4.7) (4.3)
Interest on pension liabilities 4.3 4.2
Finance (income)/expense relating to pensions (0.4) (0.1)
Total (credit)/charge to profit and loss account before deduction of tax (0.3) 0.2
Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
As at 1 January 100.4 96.5
Current service cost 0.1 0.3
Interest cost 4.3 4.2
Actuarial gains and losses 7.3 3.6
Benefits paid by the fund (3.8) (4.0)
Benefits paid by the Company (0.2) (0.2)
As at 31 December 108.1 100.4
The defined benefit obligation comprises £6.9m (2013, £6.4m) arising from an unfunded plan, and £101.2m (2013, 
£94.0m) from a scheme that is wholly funded.
Notes to the financial statements of parent company 
continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
160
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10 Pension schemes continued
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets are analysed as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
As at 1 January 101.4 100.9
Employer contributions 0.1 0.2
Benefits paid (3.8) (4.0)
Expected return on assets 4.7 4.3
Asset gain 12.5 –
As at 31 December 114.9 101.4
Employer contributions of £0.1m (2013, £0.2m) during the year include £nil (2013, £nil) of additional payments made 
over and above regular contributions.
History of experience gains and losses:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 114.9 101.4 100.9 102.2 97.1
Present value of defined benefit obligation (108.1) (100.4) (96.5) (96.9) (93.8)
Funded status 6.8 1.0 4.4 5.3 3.3
Disallowed assets (13.7) (7.4) (10.7) (10.9) (8.5)
Deficit in the scheme (6.9) (6.4) (6.3) (5.6) (5.2)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities – 0.4 5.3 – (0.2)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets – – 0.1 3.6 4.0
The movement for the year included within total recognised gains and losses:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Other actuarial losses (1.1) (0.3)
The estimated total value of contributions to defined benefit schemes will be £0.1m in 2015.
11 Issued share capital
2014 2013
Issued and fully paid Shares £m Shares £m
Ordinary shares of 28.125p each 
At 1 January 267,656,570 75.3 267,410,920 75.2
Issued for exercise of share options 250,430 – 245,650 0.1
At 31 December 267,907,000 75.3 267,656,570 75.3
267,907,000 ordinary shares of 28.125p each were in issue at the year end (2013, 267,656,570 shares of 
28.125p each). 
At 31 December 2014, options to subscribe for 1,073,759 ordinary shares at prices between 211p and 397p were 
outstanding under the Company’s executive share option schemes (2013, 1,256,306 ordinary shares at prices 
between 150p and 397p). Options outstanding under the schemes are held by 5 individuals and are exercisable 
at various times up to 4 April 2024. No further options have been granted since the year end.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
161
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 12 Shareholders’ funds
Ordinary 
share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Profit 
and loss  
account 
£m
Investment 
in own 
shares 
£m
T otal 
£m
At 1 January 2013 75.2 271.0 165.1 (4.3) 507.0
Total recognised gains and losses – – 52.2 – 52.2
Exercise of share options 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3
Share based payments – – 1.4 – 1.4
Vesting of LTIPs – – (1.9) 1.9 –
Dividends paid – – (28.6) – (28.6)
At 1 January 2014 75.3 271.2 188.2 (2.4) 532.3
Total recognised gains and losses – – 21.9 – 21.9
Exercise of share options – 0.5 – – 0.5
Share based payments – – 1.8 – 1.8
Treasury shares – – – (1.1) (1.1)
Vesting of LTIPs – – (1.8) 1.8 –
Dividends paid – – (32.6) – (32.6)
At 31 December 2014 75.3 271.7 177.5 (1.7) 522.8
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
A profit after taxation of £23.0m (2013, £52.6m profit) has been credited to the profit and loss account brought 
forward of the Company after charging exchange losses of £1.5m (2013, £3.3m gains) and crediting dividends from 
subsidiary undertakings of £31.5m (2013, £46.4m). Other movements in the profit and loss account included within 
total recognised gains and losses were £1.1m loss (2013, £0.4m). 
The investment in own shares are those held by the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”), as described in 
note 31 to the Group financial statements on page 147. At 31 December 2014 the Trust held 754,916 ordinary shares 
(2013, 1,242,253). The shares held by the Trust had a total market value at that date of £2.3m (2013, £3.4m).
13 Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2014 the Company had contingent liabilities in respect of guarantees relating to the performance of 
contracts of subsidiary undertakings.
There are legal claims against the Company but none where the Board takes the view that it is likely that damages 
will be awarded against the Group which would have a materially adverse effect on its financial position. 
Notes to the financial statements of parent company 
continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
162
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14 Share based payments
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 64 to 95, sets out the general terms and conditions for long term 
incentives and the vesting requirements for the 2014 awards. 
Performance Conditions for awards made in 2012 under the LTIP and Option Plan 
Performance conditions are measured over a single three year period and there is no provision for re-testing 
therefore the awards lapse if the performance targets are not met.
Two measures were used to determine the extent to which awards made in 2012 would vest: achievement of a 
Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) target and an underlying Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) target. For LTIP awards 
made in 2012, 75% is based on achievement of the TSR target and 25% is based on achievement of the EPS target. 
For awards under the Option Plan, 75% is based on EPS and 25% on TSR. The EPS and TSR conditions are set 
out below.
TSR condition
For 2012 a list of 20 companies was selected as the comparator group to be used for these purposes:
Ampenol Invensys Sanmina TT Electronics
AVX Meggitt Senior TTM Technologies
Bodycote Molex Smiths Group Ultra Electronics
CSR Morgan Crucible Spectris Vishay Intertechnology
E2V Technologies Oxford Instruments Spirent Communications Wolfson Microelectronics
The level of vesting of the applicable portion of the award (75% of the award under the LTIP; 25% of the award under 
the Option Plan) is dependent on Laird’s relative TSR performance over three years against this group of companies, 
as follows:
Total Shareholder Return  
Performance Level
Amount of Award Vesting for  
TSR Measure %
Upper Quartile  
Median to Upper Quartile  
Below Median
Full Vesting  
Pro-rata between 30% and full Vesting  
Nil
EPS condition
The level of vesting of the applicable portion of the award (75% of the award under the Option Plan; 25% of the 
award under the LTIP) is dependent on Laird’s EPS performance for the 2014 financial year, as follows:
Level of vesting in 2015 for EPS Measure Applicable Performance Target: 
Average Annual Growth in Continuing Earnings  
per share
Threshold 30% vesting 
Full vesting
RPI + 5% p.a 
RPI + 10% p.a
There is pro-rata vesting on a straight-line basis where EPS is between the above two targets.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
163
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14 Share based payments continued
Performance Conditions for awards made in 2013 under The Laird PLC 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Nil-Cost Awards will vest based on the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance, on a ranked basis 
relative to the FTSE 250 (excluding companies in the financial service sector and investment trusts) measured over 
a three year period as follows: 
Total Shareholder Return  
Performance Level
Amount of nil-cost award  
vesting %
Upper Quartile 
Median to Upper Quartile 
Below Median
Full vesting 
Pro-rata between 25% and full vesting 
Nil
In addition, a nil-cost award will not vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that there has been a 
sustained improvement in the Company’s underlying financial performance. 
Market Value Options will vest based on the average annual growth in the Company’s Earnings Per Share over a 
three year period in line with the following performance schedule:
Average Annual Growth in Continuing  
Earnings per share 
Level of market value option vesting
13% p.a.  
Between 8% p.a. and 13% p.a.  
8% p.a.
Full vesting 
Pro-rata between 25% and full vesting 
Threshold 25% vesting
Earnings per share is calculated with reference to underlying earnings per share before exceptional items, the 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss 
on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition transaction 
costs as stated in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Shares awarded under the Medium Term Incentive Plan (MTIP), vest three years after they have been awarded to the 
employee at nil cost, provided the employee is still employed by the Group. There are vesting conditions attached to 
the MTIP awards which specify profit and EPS targets for the years to December 2012 and 2013. 
Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) vest three years after they have been awarded to the 
employee at nil cost, provided the employee is still employed by the Group.
All share based payments are equity settled. An expense of £1.8m was recognised in the year (2013, £1.4m) before 
employer’s national insurance and was based on the fair value of the LTIP shares awarded, the RSP shares awarded 
and the share options granted.
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, end of the year and those 
granted during the year.
2014 
Number
2013 
Number
Outstanding as at 1 January 955,275 1,133,451
Granted during the year 262,375 453,057
Lapsed during the year (36,382) (321,462)
Vested and exercised during the year (206,637) (309,771)
Outstanding as at 31 December 974,631 955,275
Notes to the financial statements of parent company 
continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
164
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14 Share based payments continued
The following table shows the number of MTIP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
2014 
Number
2013 
Number
Outstanding as at 1 January 557,009 1,170,372
Granted during the year – 7,607
Lapsed during the year – (620,970)
Vested and exercised during the year – –
Outstanding as at 31 December 557,009 557,009
The following table shows the number of RSP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
2014 
Number
2013 
Number
Outstanding as at 1 January 1,968,870 2,065,956
Granted during the year 582,045 741,200
Lapsed during the year (98,393) (192,900)
Vested and exercised during the year (630,700) (645,386)
Outstanding as at 31 December 1,821,822 1,968,870
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of, and movements in share 
options issued under the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan.
2014 
Number
2014 
WAEP (p)
2013 
Number
2013 
WAEP (p)
Outstanding as at 1 January
Option prices 115-205p 174,374 150 580,882 141
Option prices 206-280p 945,328 230 1,047,767 246
Option prices 281-397p 136,604 397 277,242 397
1,256,306 237 1,905,891 236
Issued 233,910 303 382,601 211
Exercised
Option prices 115-205p (250,430) 215 (245,650) 138
Lapsed (166,027) 235 (786,536) 252
1,073,759 257 1,256,306 237
Option prices 115-205p – – 174,374 150
Option prices 206-280p 737,252 223 945,328 230
Option prices 281-397p 336,507 332 136,604 397
1,073,759 257 1,256,306 237
Exercisable at 31 December 206,512 338 448,595 305
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise in 2014 was 311p (2013, 224p). For the share options 
outstanding at 31 December 2014, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.8 years (2013, 6.0 years). 
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including the market based 
performance conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
165
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14 Share based payments continued
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of 
calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted. The non-market 
performance conditions set out in the Directors’ remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating 
the fair value. 
The weighted average fair value (in pence) of LTIP, MTIP, RSP and share options granted during the year was 
as follows:
2014 2013
LTIP 159 111
MTIP – 192
RSP 250 185
Share options 82 63
The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 
31 December 2014.
LTIP, MTIP 
& RSP 
2014
LTIP, MTIP 
& RSP 
2013
ESOP 
2014
ESOP 
2013
Dividend Yield (%) 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0
Expected Share Price volatility (%) 35 40 35 40
Expected comparator volatility (%) 11-99 13-98 N/A N/A
Risk-free interest rate (%) N/A N/A 2.3 1.5
Expected life of LTIP/option (years) 3.0 3.0 7.0 7.0
Weighted average share price (p) 288.8 209.3 303.0 210.6
The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise 
patterns that may occur. 
The expected share price volatility is based on historical volatility; average of monthly activity over the last three 
years. Expected volatility reflects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which 
may not necessarily prove to be the actual outcome. Dividends are not payable on shares prior to vesting and this 
is taken into account in calculating the fair value. 
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting
15 Auditor’s remuneration
The Company paid £32,000 (2013, £31,000) to its auditor in respect of the audit of the financial statements of 
the Company.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in 
the individual accounts of Laird PLC because Group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose 
such fees on a consolidated basis.
Definitions
Group Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings
Laird Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings
Company Laird PLC
Notes to the financial statements of parent company 
continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014
166
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The following were the principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2014. All subsidiary undertakings are 
wholly owned, with the exception of Model Solution Co. Ltd; are held by a subsidiary undertaking, with the exception 
of Laird Technologies Taiwan, Inc. and operate principally in the country of incorporation or registration unless stated 
otherwise. The list excludes (under the provisions of Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006) certain subsidiary 
undertakings which do not materially affect the accounts.
Name of company
Country of incorporation  
or registration Nature of business
AeroComm, Inc. USA Wireless systems
Antenex, Inc. USA Wireless systems
Cattron-Theimeg Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa Wireless systems
Cattron-Theimeg Americas Ltda Brazil Wireless systems
Cattron-Theimeg Europe GmbH Germany Wireless systems
Laird Controls North America Inc. USA Wireless systems
Centurion Electronics (Shanghai) Limited China Wireless systems
Emerson & Cuming Microwave Products Inc USA EMI products
Emerson & Cuming Microwave Products NV Belgium EMI products
Kunshan Cateron Electronics Co., Ltd China EMI & thermal products
Laird Asia Limited Hong Kong Asia headquarters
Laird Brasil Comercio Ltda Brazil Wireless systems
Laird Durham, Inc. USA Thermal Products
Laird Technologies GmbH KaltenKirchen, Germany Thermal Products
Laird Technologies GmbH Hildesheim, Germany Wireless systems
Laird Technologies Gothenburg AB Sweden Thermal products
Laird Technologies Inc. USA EMI & thermal products 
Laird Technologies Japan, Inc. Japan Multiple products
Laird Technologies Korea Y.H. Korea Multiple products
Laird Technologies (M) SDN BHD Malaysia Wireless systems
Laird Technologies S. de R. L. de C. V. Mexico EMI products
Laird Technologies (SEA) PTE Limited Singapore EMI products
Laird Technologies (Shanghai) Limited China EMI products
Laird Technologies (Shenzhen) Limited China Multiple products
Laird S.R.O. Czech Republic EMI, thermal & signal integrity products
Laird Technologies Taiwan, Inc. Taiwan Multiple products
Laird Vietnam LLC Vietnam EMI products
Model Solution Co Ltd (51%) South Korea Prototyping
R&F Products, Inc. USA EMI products
RecepTec Corp. USA Wireless systems
Steward, Inc. USA Signal integrity products
Steward (Foshan) Magnetics Co. Ltd China Signal integrity products
Steward (Foshan) Magnetic Materials Co., Ltd. China Signal integrity products
Steward Pte Ltd Singapore Signal integrity products
Summit Data Communications Inc USA Telematics/M2M
Tianjin Laird Technologies Limited China EMI & thermal products
Thermagon Inc. USA Thermal products
Principal subsidiaries
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
167
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Trading results
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Revenue
– continuing operations 564.9 537.0 520.2 491.3 567.4
– discontinued operations – – 21.4 94.7 –
Total revenue 564.9 537.0 541.6 586.0 567.4
Operating profit
– continuing operations 71.2 67.2 68.1 58.4 46.4
– discontinued operations – – 1.5 1.0 –
71.2 67.2 69.6 59.4 46.4
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (13.3) (13.6) (13.9) (14.1) (13.1)
Exceptional items 0.7 (4.4) (1.7) (140.1) (36.9)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses – 0.4 11.0 – –
Finance costs (net) (8.0) (7.1) (7.4) (6.7) (6.2)
Financial instruments – fair value adjustments (2.5) 1.3 0.4 (0.2) 1.2
Profit/(loss) before tax 48.1 43.8 58.0 (101.7) (8.6)
Taxation 2.1 (13.0) (11.5) (17.3) (7.4)
Profit/(loss) after tax 50.2 30.8 46.5 (119.0) (16.0)
Underlying profit before tax 63.2 60.1 60.7 51.7 40.2
Non-current assets 663.2 594.6 598.8 609.8 718.0
Current assets 271.9 231.4 237.4 270.5 253.7
Net borrowings+ 159.5 109.5 106.8 117.7 103.6
Total equity 450.1 436.1 440.9 440.4 574.9
Basic earnings per share 18.8p 11.6p 17.5p (44.8)p (6.0)p
Basic underlying earnings per share 19.1p 18.6p 19.1p 16.2p 11.8p
Dividends per share 12.5p 12.0p 10.0p 8.0p 6.3p
Dividend cover* 1.5 1.6 1.9 2.1 1.9
* Based on underlying earnings.
+ Net borrowings in 2011 are after deducting a £5.8m current financial asset. 
Comparative figures for discontinued operations have been restated for 2011 only
Five year summary
168
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Registered office
Laird PLC 
100 Pall Mall 
London SW1Y 5NQ
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7468 4040 
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7839 2921
www.laird-plc.com
Registered in England – No. 55513
Financial calendar
3 March 2015 Announcement of 2014 full year results
8 May 2015 Annual General Meeting & Q1 Interim 
Management Statement
5 June 2015 Record date for final dividend
3 July 2015 Payment date of final dividend
30 July 2015 Announcement of 2015 half year results
9 September 2015 Capital Markets Day 2015
29 October 2015 Q3 Interim Management Statement
November 2015 Record date for interim dividend
December 2015 Payment of interim dividend
Advisers
Company brokers
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited 
Numis
Financial advisers
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Principal bankers
HSBC Bank plc 
Commerzbank AG 
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Principal lawyers
Ashurst LLP 
Proskauer Rose LLP
Shareholder administrative enquiries
Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings 
in Laird PLC, such as the loss of a share certificate, 
dividend payments, or a change of address should be 
directed, in the first instance, to our Registrar:
Capita Asset Services 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU
Telephone: 
From within the UK: 0871 664 0300
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.  
Lines are open 8.30am – 5.30pm Monday – Friday).
From outside the UK: +44 (0)20 8639 3399 
Fax: +44(0)1484 600911
Email: shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk 
www.capitashareportal.com
Capita Asset Services also offer a number of online 
facilities in respect of your shareholding, so please log on 
to the website www.capitashareportal.com to register. 
You will need to input your name, investor code and 
postcode. You will also be asked to provide an email 
address and to select a password. Should you have any 
questions about this service, please email Capita Asset 
Services on shareportal@capita.co.uk.
More shareholder information can be found on the 
Investor Relations page of Laird’s website:  
www.laird-plc.com/laird/investor-relations.
Dividend bank mandates
It is recommended that your dividends be paid directly 
into a bank or building society account. Notification will 
be sent to your shareholder registered address when 
a dividend is paid. Please contact the Company’s 
Registrar, Capita Asset Services, for a dividend 
mandate form or register your mandate details online at 
www.capitashareportal.com. 
Shareholder information
Analysis of shareholders as at 31 December 2014
Size of shareholding Number of holders % of total Total holding % of total
Up to 5,000 shares 2,970 82.3171 3,235,557 1.2077
5,001 to 50,000 shares 445 12.3337 6,349,545 2.3700
50,001 to 200,000 shares 75 2.0787 8,098,479 3.0229
Over 200,000 shares 118 3.2705 250,223,419 93.3994
Total 3,608 100% 267,907,000 100%
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
169
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Glossary
AI
Artificial Intelligence
AM/FM
Amplitude/ Frequency Modulation
CAGR
Compound annual growth rate
CIP
Continuous Improvement Process
CO2
Carbon dioxide
CSR
Corporate Social Responsibility
DAB
Digital Audio Broadcasting
DTRs
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
EHS
Environmental Health and Safety
EICC
Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition
EMI
Electromagnetic Interference
EU
European Union
GHG
Greenhouse gas
GPS
Global Positioning System
IEC
Internationall Electrochemical Commission
IT
Information Technology
ISO
International Organisation for Standardisation
KPI
Key Performance Indicator
LED
Light-emitting diode
LISTING RULES 
The Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange, as 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority
LTE
Long term evolution
M2M
Machine-to-machine
OEM
Original Equipment Manufacturer
OHSAS
Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services
RAMP
Range Amplified Multipoint
R&D
Research and Development
REACH
Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction 
of Chemical substances
RF
Radio Frequency
RGG
Risk and Governance Group
RoHS
Restriction of Hazardous Substances
SIP
Signal Integrity Products
TIMS
Thermal Interface Materials
UL
Underwriters Laboratories
WACS
Wireless Automation and Control Solutions
WI-FI
Wireless Fidelity
WLAN
Wireless Local Area Network (sometimes also Wi-Fi)
REACH
Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction 
of Chemical substances
4G/5G
Fourth/ Fifth Generation of Mobile 
telecommunications technology
170
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Lumi Silk is produced at a mill that is certified with the ISO14001 environmental management standard. The mill is 
certified to the EMAS environmental management standard (No FIN-000021). Lumi Silk is a FSC® mixed sources 
paper from responsible sources.
Design and production: Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
Cautionary statement
This Annual Report and Accounts is intended to focus on matters which are relevant to the interests of shareholders 
of the Company. The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to assist shareholders in assessing the 
strategies adopted and performance delivered by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed. 
It should not be relied on by any other party or for any other purpose. Forward-looking statements are made in 
good faith, based on a number of assumptions concerning future events and information available to Directors at 
the time of their approval of this report. These forward-looking statements should be treated with caution due to 
the inherent uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information. The user of this Annual Report and 
Accounts should not rely unduly on these forward-looking statements, which are not a guarantee of performance 
and which are subject to a number of uncertainties and other facts, many of which are outside the Company’s 
control and could cause actual events to differ materially from those in these statements. No guarantee can be given 
of future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Laird PLC
100 Pall Mall 
London 
SW1Y 5NQ
Tel: +44 (0)20 7468 4040 
Fax: +44 (0)20 7839 2921
Email (general): info@laird-plc.com 
Email (investors): ir@laird-plc.com
Find out more  
www.laird-plc.com  
for up-to-date investor information  
and download our investor relations application.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
