 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Registered Office:
15–19 Athol Street
Douglas
Isle of Man
IM1 1LB
Operations:
PO Box 5427
Dubai
United Arab Emirates
Telephone: +971 6 5282323
Fax: +971 6 5284325
Email: lamprell@lamprell.com
Website: www.lamprell.com Lamprell plc is a leading 
contractor in the Arabian Gulf, 
providing specialist services to 
the offshore and onshore oil 
and gas industry.
The principal markets in which Lamprell 
operate are: 
 new build construction of jackup rigs and  −
liftboats and upgrade and refurbishment  
of jackup rigs; and
other new build construction for the  −
offshore oil and gas sector including FPSO, 
tender assist drilling units and other 
offshore and onshore structures.
Lamprell is also involved in providing  −
oilfield engineering services, including the 
new build construction, upgrade and 
refurbishment of land rigs.
Contents Business overview
01 2008 Highlights
02 Lamprell at a Glance
04 Chairman’s Statement
06 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Business review
10 Continuous Growth
12 Diversifying our Core Offering
14 Maintaining Superior Customer Service
16 Our Strategy
18 Review of Operations
24 Financial Review
28 Risk Factors
30 Corporate Social Responsibility
34 Board of Directors
Corporate governance
36 Directors’ Report
39 Corporate Governance
44 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial statements
54 Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of Lamprell plc
55 Consolidated Income Statement
56 Consolidated Balance Sheet
57 Company Balance Sheet
58 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
59 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
60 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
61 Company Cash Flow Statement
62 Notes to the Financial Statements
88 Definitions
ibc Corporate Advisers
Corporate Advisers
Broker
J.P. Morgan Cazenove Limited
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA 
UK
Legal Advisers to the Company
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street 
London EC4Y 1HS 
UK
Clyde & Co. 
PO Box 7001 
City Tower 2
Sheikh Zayed Road 
Dubai 
UAE
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Sixty Circular Road 
Douglas
Isle of Man IM1 1SA
Principal Bankers
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
PO Box 3766
Dubai
UAE
Registrars
Capita Registrars (Jersey) Limited
PO Box 532
St Helier
Jersey JE2 3QA
UK Transfer Agent
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham BR3 4TU
UK Operating proﬁt
USD million
2006 2007 2008
33.0
67.3
82.5
Earnings per share
US cents
2006 2007 2008
16.9
35.8
42.7
EBITDA
USD million
2006 2007 2008
38.0
74.8
92.3
Net proﬁt
USD million
2006 2007 2008
33.8
71.6
85.5
Business overview
2008 
Highlights
Record trading performance −
Significant contract wins with  −
Bassdrill Limited for USD 205 million 
and Riginvest GP for USD 186 million
Lamprell Asia Limited incorporated  −
in May 2008 
Key Board appointments to enhance  −
experience and expertise
Listing of the share capital of the  −
Company on the Official List of the 
UK Listing Authority 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
01 2006 2007 2008
Area of exclusive deepwater 
quay side access
m
2
555 555
713
2006 2007 2008
Total surface area
m
2
238,500
249,500
312,900
Lamprell  
at a Glance
Lamprell is located in the UAE in the Arabian 
Gulf, one of the most important oil and gas 
regions in the world. The Group has four 
facilities in three locations in the UAE and is in 
the process of developing a new much larger 
facility in the Hamriyah Free Zone. 
Hamriyah 
This 51,000m² portside facility  
has direct quayside access.  
This facility primarily undertakes 
jackup rig upgrade and 
refurbishment projects together 
with new build projects.
There is a core workforce of more than 
1,000 skilled tradesmen at this facility and 
as with both the Sharjah and the Jebel Ali 
facilities workforce is supplemented from 
the local labour market when required to 
meet the demands of specific projects.
New facility 
When completed the new facility will have 
a developed area of 250,000m
2
 with a 
deepwater berthing quay wall 1,250m in 
length and 9m deep. This will enable 
Lamprell to work on up to 10 rigs and 
simultaneously construct up to three new 
build jackups.
Sharjah 
Lamprell’s facility in Sharjah is 
located in Port Khalid, a designated 
free zone, and it has 360m of direct 
quayside access at which the 
majority of Lamprell’s jackup rig 
upgrade and refurbishment 
projects are executed. 
The facility has a total surface area of 
36,000m² that includes 28,000m² of  
open fabrication areas that are serviced 
by mobile crawler cranes and tower 
cranes, as well as 3,500m² of covered 
fabrication areas. Lamprell’s senior 
management team and the service 
departments such as finance, human 
resources and procurement are all 
located at the Sharjah facility.
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
02 Business overview
Jebel Ali 
The facility occupies an area of 
178,900m² that includes more than 
16,000m² of covered work spaces 
with internal overhead cranes 
suitable for carrying out fabrication 
and assembly activities under cover. 
The covered areas also contain the latest 
welding and CNC cutting machinery. This 
protected work environment is cooler, 
safer and more productive than an 
outside location, and it allows the 
production of a higher quality product at 
less cost. The yard was designed to allow 
optimum production based on a clear 
and logical flow of material through the 
facility. In addition to the covered 
fabrication areas it has extensive open 
fabrication areas that are equipped with 
gantry and mobile crawler cranes. 
Oilfield Engineering 
The Oilfield Engineering facility 
was completed in 2005 and is a 
purpose-built facility located 
within the boundaries of the Jebel 
Ali facility. The Oilfield Engineering 
facility is accredited with  
all relevant API licences  
and certifications. 
In addition to the covered fabrication 
areas it has extensive open fabrication 
areas that are equipped with gantry and 
mobile crawler cranes. These open areas 
are used to assemble the final structures. 
There are also first class project, 
production, engineering and client offices 
for more than 300 people at the facility.
Lamprell’s Jebel Ali facility was purpose 
built in 2002 and is one of the most 
modern in the region. It is located in the 
Jebel Ali Free Zone and is 25km from  
the centre of Dubai.
Thailand 
Five year lease for a 46,950m
2
 
facility with 158 meters of 
exclusive deep water quayside  
in Sattahip, Thailand.
The Company believes this expansion 
provides an excellent opportunity to 
transfer the skills and reputation Lamprell 
has built over many years, through its 
operations in the United Arab Emirates,  
to a region which offers a significant  
fleet of jackup drilling rigs owned by 
predominantly the same group of clients 
that operate in the Middle East. 
The yard is ready to commence revenue 
generating projects and has been 
granted necessary operating licences. 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
03 Chairman’s 
Statement
I am honoured to be writing this Statement, 
following my appointment, on 27 March 2009, 
as Chairman of Lamprell plc. 
Jonathan Silver, Chairman
Steven D. Lamprell, President
2008 was a very busy year for the 
Company. The strategic aim, set out at 
the time of the IPO in 2006, to move the 
Company’s listing to the Main Market of 
the London Stock Exchange, was 
achieved; work on the planned expansion 
at the new Hamriyah site progressed 
significantly; the new facility at Sattahip in 
Thailand officially opened; Lamprell 
undertook some of the largest and most 
complex projects in its history; and it won 
several sizeable contracts for both 
existing and new customers. Despite the 
extraordinary turbulence in the world’s 
financial and other markets, Lamprell 
generated, in 2008, revenue of USD 
740.8 million (up 58.5% on the previous 
year), an adjusted net profit of USD 95.5 
million (an increase of nearly 11% on the 
prior year) and fully diluted and adjusted 
earnings per share of 47.58 cents (up 
10.6% on the prior year). 
With the move to the Main Market, we took 
the opportunity to strengthen the Board. 
We have been fortunate to have been 
joined by Colin Goodall, now the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director, who 
brings with him enormous experience 
gained with BP in the upstream oil and gas 
industry and Brian Frederick, a career 
banker with HSBC. However, David Moran 
stepped down from the Board on 
2 November and Peter Birch, who had 
joined the Board at the time of the IPO, left 
the Board, for personal reasons, in early 
December having very ably chaired the 
Board since 5 February 2008. 
As planned at the time of the IPO, Peter 
Whitbread will step down as CEO on 
1 May 2009 and Nigel McCue will step 
up from his current role as Chief 
Operating Officer to take Peter’s place. 
Peter and Nigel have worked together 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
04 Business overview
extremely closely since Nigel accepted a 
full-time role with Lamprell and I expect 
the transition to be “seamless”. Nigel 
brings huge experience both of the oil 
industry in general and Lamprell, in 
particular, having served as a Director 
since 7 July 2006 and I am confident he 
will make a very significant contribution to 
the Company in the coming years. 
Peter’s contribution to Lamprell over the 
last 17 years has been absolutely 
enormous and I am particularly delighted 
that he has agreed to remain on the 
Board and to take on the strategic role of 
Director of International Development for 
the Group. 
As announced on 20 March 2009, 
Lamprell has experienced, in recent 
weeks, a slow down in its business, except 
for the rig refurbishment business which is 
currently busy but is now expected also to 
slow down in the second half of the year. 
However, although the global turmoil in 
financial and other markets, the depressed 
oil price and the uncertainty that prevails 
generally in the world economy are having 
an adverse effect on most business 
sectors, the Executive Directors have been 
quick to recognise the challenging market 
conditions that have emerged within the 
industry in which Lamprell operates and 
they are working very hard to put in place 
appropriate measures to limit the impact of 
those conditions on the business. I fully 
expect these measures, Lamprell’s 
long-standing reputation for quality, 
technical capability, project execution and 
delivery and the dedication, commitment 
and experience of Lamprell’s management 
and staff, to stand us in good stead for the 
difficult year that lies ahead.
With the new appointments and the skills 
that my other colleagues bring to the 
Board, Lamprell has a solid platform on 
which to build and I am looking forward 
to working with them in leading the 
Company through the current, difficult 
phase it is facing. 
Jonathan Silver 
Chairman
Lamprell plc
A year of significant opportunities to 
further expand the scope and reach 
of the Company.
Rig refurbishment outperforming  
the market 
With its diverse offering for a broad 
customer base, the Company’s operating 
markets and facilities remain busy. Rig 
refurbishment in particular, will continue 
to be a core activity in the coming years 
as customers maintain and upgrade their 
existing rig fleets. 
Global Reach
Lamprell’s expansion into Thailand  
in 2008 is an exciting development. 
South-East Asia has a significant fleet  
of jackup drilling rigs owned principally  
by Lamprell’s current clients in the  
UAE and offers exciting possibilities  
for future growth. 
Move to the Main Market 
Further to Lamprell’s continued 
development and growth since its 
successful AIM listing, the Company 
moved its listing to the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange in November 
2008. Lamprell believes this to be a more 
appropriate platform than AIM for its 
continued growth and looks to the future 
with confidence. 
Building on Lamprell’s reputation
Since its inception, Lamprell has strived 
to offer its clients a best in class service. 
Projects are completed on time, within 
budget, and to the very highest of 
standards which has garnered Lamprell 
an unparalleled reputation in rig 
refurbishment. Looking ahead, we  
hope to leverage our exacting standards 
as we move into new markets and 
diversify our offering.
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
05 Peter Whitbread, Chief Executive Officer
Chief 
Executive 
Officer’s 
Statement
I am pleased to announce that we have  
had another successful year in 2008,  
having seen significant growth in revenues  
of 58.5% compared to 2007, and a net profit 
(adjusted for exceptional charges) for the year 
of USD 95.5 million (USD 85.5 million after 
exceptional charges).
Towards the end of 2008 we entered a 
time of market uncertainty as a result of 
the worldwide financial crisis. Lamprell, 
like every other company, is looking at a 
different economic landscape from that 
which existed this time last year. In mid 
2008, the Group was operating against a 
backdrop of record oil prices, with the oil 
services sector working at near 
maximum capacity. This is in stark 
contrast to the operating markets we are 
now experiencing and as a result, we 
have reviewed our business to ensure we 
are able to steer the Group effectively 
through these turbulent times. 
One of the cornerstones of Lamprell’s 
development and success has been its 
rigorous approach to project execution. 
We are committed to offering our 
customers the highest standards 
available and our clients enjoy exacting 
levels of service. We are in the privileged 
position of enjoying a great many repeat 
contracts from our customers who see 
the value which Lamprell brings. In 
addition to this, we have been fortunate 
to have a strong balance sheet and net 
cash position. 
Throughout our history, we have 
approached expansion and development 
in a measured way, only embarking on 
such projects when we could afford to 
pay for such developments from our own 
cash resources. At a time when bank 
debt is not readily available, we are 
pleased to continue operating with no 
long-term debt.
In the past year we have undertaken 
some of the largest and most complex 
projects in the Company’s history. We 
have a strong order book going forward, 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
06 Business overview
which at the end of the year stood at 
approximately, USD 600 million extending 
into late 2010 and to date there have 
been no cancellations received impacting 
our order book.
On our major EPC contracts we 
completed the commissioning and 
delivery of the Seajacks Kraken new build 
self propelled liftboat to Seajacks 
International Limited in March 2009, on 
time and on budget. The construction 
phase of the second liftboat, the Seajacks 
Leviathan, has significantly advanced 
during 2008 and the unit will be launched 
on schedule later in the year awaiting final 
completion and commissioning.
The construction phases of the new build 
jackup rig projects for Scorpion Offshore 
Limited have significantly advanced 
during 2008 and the first rig, the Offshore 
Freedom, is on target for delivery in April 
2009, with the Offshore Mischief planned 
to be launched later in the year awaiting 
final completion and commissioning. We 
are delighted that Scorpion have now 
arranged the full funding requirements for 
the Offshore Freedom and also that they 
have arranged financing to meet a 
substantial progress payment on the 
Offshore Mischief and have stated to the 
market that they are confident of meeting 
all future contract payments. 
The new build jackup rig project with 
Riginvest GP for the construction and 
delivery of a completely outfitted and 
equipped, LeTourneau designed, 
self-elevating Mobile Offshore Drilling 
Platform of a Super 116E (Enhanced) 
Class design is continuing and is now 
planned for completion in November 
2010. In addition, the construction phase 
of the lump sum turnkey construction 
contract with BassDrill for a self-erecting 
tender assist drilling unit is progressing 
on target for completion later this year. 
The Al Ghallan jackup drilling rig 
refurbishment project for NDC was 
carried out during the year and has been 
completed successfully on time and on 
budget in February 2009. This project, 
with a contract value to Lamprell of USD 
59 million, is part of the NDC Strategic 
RIAP. The project is the second contract 
awarded under the RIAP programme and 
follows the successful completion of the 
NDC Junana upgrade project in 2007.
The Board
On 6 November 2008 we moved our 
listing from the AIM to the Official List of 
the UK Listing Authority and the shares of 
Lamprell plc were admitted for trading on 
the London Stock Exchange plc’s main 
market for listed securities. 
Subsequent to our move to the Official 
List, Peter G Birch, the then Chairman  
of the Company, resigned from the  
Board of Lamprell plc due to personal 
reasons. David Moran who held the 
position of Director of Corporate 
Communications stepped down from  
the Board on 2 November 2008 and  
has subsequently left the Company.  
We acknowledge the contribution made 
by both Peter and David during their 
tenure with the Company. 
Colin Goodall joined the Board of 
Lamprell as a Non-Executive Director on 
14 September 2008. Colin was appointed 
to the role of Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director on 2 November. 
In addition, on 15 September 2008, the 
Board announced the appointment of 
Brian Fredrick who joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director with effect from 
1 January 2009. Brian has held a variety 
of senior banking roles, most recently 
with HSBC. 
Jonathan Silver joined the Board on 
24 August 2007, pursuant to 
arrangements made with Lamprell 
Holdings Limited, the Company’s 
principal shareholder, at the time the 
Company’s shares were admitted to 
trading on the AIM. In accordance with 
those arrangements, Jonathan ceased to 
be a Director immediately upon 
Admission to the Official List becoming 
effective. However, the Board considered 
that Jonathan’s detailed knowledge of the 
Group and the Middle East region made 
it desirable for his services to be retained 
and accordingly, the Board resolved to 
reappoint Jonathan immediately as a 
Non-Executive Director.
We are pleased to announce that on 
27 March 2009 the Board appointed 
Jonathan Silver as Non-Executive 
Chairman. Jonathan’s detailed 
knowledge of the Group and the Middle 
East region means he is the ideal 
candidate for the role and the Board is 
delighted he has agreed to become the 
Chairman of Lamprell plc. He has already 
made an invaluable contribution to the 
Group’s development in recent years and 
we look forward to working with him as 
we seek to build our business, both in the 
Middle East and overseas.
On 1 May 2009 I will be stepping down 
from the position of CEO which I have held 
for the past 17 years. My intention to step 
down was initially advised to the Market at 
the time of the initial offering in October 
2006 and I am delighted that Nigel McCue 
is stepping into the CEO position. I am 
confident that Nigel has the right level of 
experience and knowledge to successfully 
take the Company forward.
I will be taking on a role more outwardly 
focused on long-term strategic 
development of the Company. This 
position, entitled Director of International 
Development, will focus on the 
development and maintenance of client 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
07 relationships and on the longer term 
strategic positioning of the Company as 
we seek to further expand the Company’s 
international interests and markets. This 
role will also entail working closely with 
Nigel in providing managerial assistance 
and support to him in his new role as CEO.
I would also like to particularly thank the 
founder and President of the Company, 
Steven Lamprell, for his friendship and 
support during the 17 years of working 
together. Without that long-term 
relationship and trust, the Company 
would not have developed to the 
structure that we have today. This 
ongoing support and enthusiasm, 
particularly during the current difficult and 
uncertain market conditions, is truly 
appreciated both from a business as well 
as a personal standpoint. 
Future developments
Despite the uncertain economic 
environment, our operational 
developments are continuing as planned. 
We believe our expansion is essential so 
that Lamprell is well placed to harness 
future business streams once the financial 
markets have improved and we see an 
upturn once more in activity levels.
Construction of the new facility at 
Hamriyah continues and operations are 
scheduled to commence in the second 
quarter of 2009. When completed the 
new facility will have a developed area of 
250,000m² with a deepwater berthing 
quay wall 1,250m in length and 9m deep. 
Lamprell will have a much more flexible 
capacity with the ability to work on up to 
10 rigs simultaneously and construct up 
to three new build jackups. Lamprell will 
also be able to refurbish drill ships and 
semi-submersible drilling units which, up 
to this time, the Company has been 
unable to service in any significant 
capacity because of space and water 
depth constraints.
We are additionally developing and 
expanding our facilities at Jebel Ali and 
we have recently completed the 
construction of an extension to our 
existing production facility. 
The Company’s new 46,950m² facility  
with 158m deep water quayside  
in Sattahip, Thailand, is now complete  
and our first revenue generating project 
commenced in the first quarter of 2009.  
In addition, the Board of Investment 
privileges for the new Thailand operations 
were granted on 4 December 2008 
providing amongst other benefits, certain 
corporate tax and import duty exemptions.
Market overview 
As a result of the diverse range of activities 
that Lamprell undertakes and its broad 
range of customers, all of the Company’s 
facilities have remained active during 2008. 
This has been a significant contributor in 
delivering a strong financial performance 
for the year and reporting net profit for 
2008 in line with market expectations, 
despite current market conditions. 
During this current period, Lamprell 
continues to remain operationally active but 
also extremely vigilant. The Board continues 
to be cautious with respect to the market 
for new build orders for drilling jackup rigs 
as it expects that these may slow, as clients 
reduce their capital expenditure plans and 
focus on existing assets.
The Company continues to see a 
significant interest in the use of jackup 
liftboats for alternative energy usage, 
particularly related to the development of 
offshore wind farms and our proposals 
activity generally remains active.
Chief 
Executive 
Officer’s 
Statement
(continued)
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
08 Business overview
Rig refurbishment performed strongly in 
2008 with higher levels of activity than 
expected in the second half of the year. 
This business area has remained buoyant 
as we enter 2009, however, there have 
been recent signs of a slow down which 
is likely to impact during the second half 
of 2009.
The Board remains optimistic of the 
medium term prospects for this business 
area. Over 75% of the existing global rig 
fleet is over 25 years old and over 25% of 
that fleet is located within Lamprell’s 
regional catchment area. To that end, the 
Company anticipates that demand for its 
services will continue, despite the fact 
that multiple new build rigs will be 
delivered in the next three years and the 
current oil price is depressed. The 
continued maintenance and 
refurbishment of this aging fleet is still 
seen as a regional priority for operators 
and will continue to represent a major 
ongoing component in the overall mix of 
projects which Lamprell will be 
undertaking in the coming years. 
FPSO related activities were significant  
in the first half of 2008, however, there 
was a slow down in the second half of the 
year due to a general reduction of capex 
budgets and the weakening oil price. 
Notwithstanding this fact, the Board 
remains confident in the long term viability 
of the offshore construction market both 
for fixed and floating structures.
Activities relating to land rigs have 
continued at a consistent level and 
progress on the four new build API 2000 
HP fast moving land rigs continues on 
schedule. The demand for land rigs also 
continued to grow through to the end of 
2008 both in the UAE and internationally 
and the rig count in the Middle East has 
seen a substantial increase in the past 
three years. There have been a number 
of land rigs which have been temporarily 
laid up in the first quarter of 2009, 
reflecting a sharp reaction to the sudden 
drop in the oil price and the impact of the 
world wide financial uncertainty. 
However, because of the regional 
dynamics of the Middle Eastern market, 
we anticipate a strong recovery in land 
drilling activities in the Middle East in the 
second half of 2009. This provides the 
Board with confidence that both the 
refurbishment and new build land rig 
markets will regionally recover and will  
be attractive for some years to come.
The Board believes it is well placed  
to capitalise on the rig refurbishment 
opportunities that are being presented to 
the Company with the increasing offshore 
rig count in the Middle East region and 
although they are cautious in the short-
term market for new build construction, 
the Board is confident of the Company’s 
long-term prospects for the markets in 
which we operate. 
Dividend
Given the current difficult market conditions 
and the general uncertainty of the markets, 
the Board of Directors is recommending a 
final dividend payment of 3.15 cents per 
ordinary share, with a Sterling equivalent of 
2.18 pence per ordinary share. This will be 
payable, when approved, on 18 June 2009 
to eligible shareholders on the register at 
22 May 2009.
Outlook 
2008 was another successful year  
for Lamprell. In the period, we saw 
significant revenue and earnings growth, 
exceeding all targets set at the beginning 
of the year, and we continue to operate 
with a substantial order book extending 
into mid 2010. We have a strong balance 
sheet and operate with no long-term 
debt, and are proud to maintain a 
business model without claims or cases 
of litigation either against us or against 
our clients, subcontractors or suppliers.
However, it has become apparent in 
recent weeks that there is a marked slow 
down in the Company’s business except 
for the rig refurbishment business which 
is currently busy but is anticipated to slow 
down in the second half of the year. On 
20 March we announced that  
as a result of that change we expected 
the out turn for 2009 to be below the 
market’s expectations at that time.
We fully recognise the challenging 
prevailing market conditions that  
the wider service sector is currently 
encountering. In order that we operate  
as prudently as is possible, we are 
reviewing the impact this might have on 
our business in the short-term and action 
has already been taken to achieve cost 
savings, which is possible as a result  
of our flexible business model. Whilst  
the market today presents significant 
challenges to the Group, we are 
confident that our long-term prospects 
remain promising as we seek to build  
a strong platform for future growth. 
I would like to take the opportunity  
to again express the thanks and 
appreciation of the Board of Directors 
and my own personal thanks to all of our 
workforce for their support and unfailing 
efforts for producing a great year in 2008. 
Peter Whitbread 
Chief Executive Officer
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
09 Continuous growth as the 
new facility at Hamriyah 
is completed and our 
expansion into Thailand 
gains momentum.
Construction of the new facility at Hamriyah 
continues and operations are scheduled to 
commence at the new facility at the end of 
quarter 1 2009. When completed the new 
facility will have a developed area of 
250,000m² with a deepwater berthing quay 
wall 1,250m in length and 9m deep. This will 
enable Lamprell to work on up to 10 rigs 
simultaneously and construct up to three 
new build jackups. Lamprell will also be able 
to refurbish drill ships and semi submersible 
drilling units which, up to this time, the 
Company has been unable to service in any 
significant capacity because of space and 
water depth constraints. 
The Company signed an initial five year lease for a 
46,950m² facility with 158m of exclusive deep water 
quayside in Sattahip, Thailand in May 2008. The Company 
continued enhancing the facilities throughout the year. The 
first revenue generating project, minor rig refurbishment 
works, was undertaken in the first quarter of 2009. 
Our existing client base is looking very positively at the 
potential that these new facilities will offer to them to 
provide further services to meet their increasing  
regional needs. 
250,000m
2
Total developed area at new Hamriyah facility
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
10 11 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 12 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Diversifying our core 
offering is a key focus 
and we are progressing 
well with expansion  
into engineering, 
procurement and 
construction contracts.
Our biggest contract win to date of USD 205 
million from BassDrill Limited is a significant 
step towards the planned growth of the 
Company as we seek to diversify our 
offering. We see large scale engineering, 
procurement and construction of drilling and 
rig related equipment as a key component of 
our future growth strategy. 
In March 2009, the Seajacks Kraken was successfully 
delivered and is now with its end user, Exxon Mobil. Hailed 
anecdotally as the “best constructed rig ever seen” the 
Kraken is a new prototype and a landmark project for 
Lamprell. We are confident of securing further new business 
enquiries based on its successful launch. 
In addition to Lamprell’s traditional areas of expertise, the 
Company is exploring new business streams, in areas such 
as wind farms, floating desalinisation plants and power 
barges. Many of Lamprell’s skills and technical capabilities 
are transferable to these activities and we are excited by the 
potential, particularly as alternative energy gains momentum 
and market share. 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
13 Maintaining superior 
customer service is 
something we are 
committed to. Our 
operating philosophy is 
built upon quality and 
customer satisfaction.
Customer service is imperative in the oil 
services sector and at Lamprell it forms the 
backbone of every project we undertake.  
We constantly strive to improve upon our exacting 
standards and are proud to enjoy high levels of repeat 
business with our clients. Many of our customers have 
been working with Lamprell over many years which is 
testament to our quality control and service culture. 
However, we are not complacent. Each and every project 
we undertake is reviewed upon completion such that 
improvements to customer service can be implemented for 
future projects and this is one of the reasons why we have 
such a high level of repeat business from our customers. 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
14 15 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Our Strategy
Our strategy is centred on sustainable, 
profitable growth. In delivering this strategy  
our main aim is to secure value enhancement 
for our shareholders and other stakeholders. 
We use financial and non-financial KPI’s to 
measure our success in the delivery of our 
strategy and the management of our business.
01
Maintaining a leading 
position in the EPC 
market
Objectives
–  Proximity to growing  
Middle East market 
–   Focus on maintaining relations 
with all market participants 
–   Expansion of facilities and  
service offering 
–   Transfer of skills to new regions 
–  Investment in capital equipment  
to improve service levels 
02
Maintaining a focus on 
repeat business and 
continued expansion 
of services 
Objectives
–  Differentiated service offering 
–  Focus on quality, timeliness of 
delivery and price competitiveness 
–  Expansion of offering to include 
major EPC projects 
–  Focus on achieving leading  
HSE standards 
–  Focus on quality assurance  
and quality control 
–  Expansion of engineering services 
to include detailed design 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
16 Business overview
03
Investment in a new 
facility in Hamriyah 
Free Zone 
Objectives
–  Production focused design 
–  Emphasis on operating efficiency 
–  Yard layout and quayside design 
focused on rig related operations 
–  Increased capacity to accommodate 
multiple new build projects 
–  Improved staff welfare facilities 
–  Focus on semi-automated processes 
04
Continuing to expand 
its client base 
Objectives
–  Maintain customer focus 
–  Broad service offering 
–  International marketing  
in multiple sectors 
–  Transfer of skills to alternative 
energy markets 
–  Strategic marketing across 
sectors 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
17 Review of 
Operations
Lamprell had a very successful year in 2008, 
with all operating facilities successfully working 
on a wide range of different projects.
During the year Lamprell has continued 
to focus on maintaining our high 
standards of project execution with a 
particular focus on safety, maintaining 
high quality standards and to delivering 
projects both on time and on budget to 
all our customers. This focus has ensured 
that Lamprell has not only maintained 
and indeed strengthened its relationships 
with its existing customers, but also 
added new key customers to our 
expanding client base. 
During the year Lamprell has continued 
to focus on core business whilst 
developing EPC new build projects, 
including the construction of jackup 
drilling rigs, liftboats and tender assist 
drilling units. The EPC projects ongoing 
during 2008 have all continued to 
progress on schedule and we now look 
forward to delivering our first completed 
EPC projects during 2009.
The principal markets in which Lamprell 
operates, and the principal services 
provided are:
upgrade and refurbishment of offshore  −
jackup rigs;
new build construction for the offshore  −
oil and gas sector;
oilfield engineering services, including  −
the upgrade and refurbishment of land 
rigs; and
EPC new build construction of jackup  −
drilling rigs, liftboats and tender assist 
drilling units.
Nigel McCue, Chief Operating Officer
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
18 Business review
The operational aspects of these business 
activities are reviewed as follows:
Upgrade and refurbishment of 
offshore jackup rigs
During 2008 Lamprell executed 
refurbishment and upgrade works on a 
total of 25 jackup rigs. The rigs, owned by 
a wide range of international drilling 
contractors including National Drilling 
Company, Ensco Oceanics International 
Company, Nabors Drilling International 
Limited, Noble Drilling Limited, Transocean 
Offshore International Ventures, Rowan 
Drilling, Hercules Offshore Middle East Ltd 
and Japan Drilling Company, were all 
berthed at our Sharjah and existing 
Hamriyah facilities. 
Refurbishment and upgrade projects 
such as these vary greatly in scope from 
project to project and depend on the 
existing condition of each rig and the 
owner’s upgrade requirements. A minor 
project can have a work schedule lasting 
a few days, whereas a major upgrade 
project with a significant engineering 
requirement can last for 12 months or 
more. Typical upgrade and refurbishment 
projects include some of the following 
work scopes:
leg extensions and/or strengthening; −
conversion of slot rigs to cantilever  −
mode;
living quarters extension, upgrade and  −
refurbishment;
engine replacement and re-power  −
works;
mud process system upgrade and/or  −
refurbishment;
helideck replacement, upgrade and/or  −
refurbishment; and
condition-driven refurbishment,  −
including structural steel and piping 
replacement and painting.
In 2008, the Company announced its 
largest single contract from BassDrill 
Limited with a value of USD 204.5 million. 
This marked a significant step in the 
planned growth of the Company and 
reinforces our reputation for quality, 
technical capability and long-term 
relationships. In addition, a further 
contract for the construction of a 
LeTourneau Super 116E jackup rig  
was signed with Riginvest GP further 
developing our Engineering, Procurement 
and Construction offering. 
Lamprell continues to win new clients and its 
pipeline remains strong. 
USD 204.5m
Largest single contract value to date.
New contract wins
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
19 Review of 
Operations
(continued)
Offsite and other services
In addition to major refurbishment 
projects we also undertook a wide range 
of minor projects including the supply  
of engineering services, procurement 
activities and various smaller rig 
refurbishment projects carried out on 
board rigs whilst they remain in operation. 
These projects do not account for a large 
proportion of revenue but they provide a 
critical service to our customers and 
reflect Lamprell’s flexible approach to 
servicing our clients needs.
New build construction for the 
offshore oil and gas sector
Our Jebel Ali facility has been working on 
a variety of major projects during 2008 
for clients including SBM, Saipem SA, 
Kanfa AS and Scana AMT AS. These 
projects all require the utilisation of our 
state of the art facility as well as high 
levels of project management control to 
ensure that safety and quality standards 
are maintained whilst keeping a strong 
focus on delivering on schedule.
The Jebel Ali facility undertakes a range 
of different new build construction 
projects which in 2008 included:
Process barges
SBM Kashagan Flash Gas 
Compression Barges
In 2006 Lamprell commenced the 
construction of three process barges for 
SBM. These barges form part of the 
ongoing development of the Kashagan 
project, the world’s largest oil and gas 
project, and each weighs in excess of 
3,000 tonnes, including 1,800 tonnes  
of topside process components.  
In July 2007, the first two barges were 
successfully loaded out from our Jebel Ali 
facility onto the Lamprell owned semi-
submersible barge, the “Hamriyah Pride”. 
The third barge was delivered to SBM in 
March 2008 following the completion  
of a modification work scope including 
the addition of further access platforms 
to the barge.
FPSO process modules
Saipem Gimboa
In 2008 Lamprell completed the 
construction of six process modules for 
Saipem. These modules were designed 
and constructed for the Gimboa FPSO to 
suit typical production of around 60,000 
barrels of oil per day. The modules were 
delivered to Saipem ready for installation 
onto the FPSO and Lamprell thereafter 
provided assistance with the integration 
of the modules onto the FPSO. The FPSO 
is now working for Sonangol in Angola.
SBM Frade FPSO process modules
In the first quarter of 2007 Lamprell was 
awarded the contract to build seven 
process modules and a turret manifold 
deck by SBM for their Frade FPSO. The 
work scope includes structural, piping, E 
and I and pressure vessel works. The 
modules were delivered to SBM from 
March to May 2008 ready for integration 
onto the converted tanker located at 
Dubai Drydocks. Following delivery 
Lamprell provided resources to assist 
with the integration of the modules onto 
the FPSO. 
Oilfield engineering services
Lamprell’s Oilfield Engineering operation, 
located within our main Jebel Ali facility, 
was busy throughout 2008, executing 
contracts for a variety of clients including 
LTDS, Nabors Drilling, KCA Deutag and 
Ensign. Projects executed during 2008 
included the new build construction of 
four fast moving land rigs for LTDS, the 
upgrade and refurbishment of five land 
rigs, as well as the construction of land 
camps and the inspection and overhaul  
of mechanical and rotary equipment.  
In addition to these projects, we also 
executed a number of minor offsite 
The jackup rig upgrade and refurbishment 
projects carried out in 2008 included:
NDC Al Ghallan
The rig, which was working for ADNOC, 
arrived at our Sharjah facility in May 2008 
for an extensive upgrade and 
refurbishment programme scheduled as 
part of NDC’s RIAP. The work scopes on 
this project included the conversion of the 
rig from slot to cantilever drilling, the 
addition of hull sponsons and 
accommodation refurbishment. The 
project has been completed in the first 
quarter of 2009 and the rig has returned 
to Abu Dhabi to continue its drilling 
programme. Notably two million man-
hours were expended and the project was 
completed without a lost time incident. 
Transocean CE Thornton
The CE Thornton was mobilised to 
Lamprell’s Sharjah facility from India  
on the completion of its drilling 
programme. The rig arrived in April 2008 
with a major upgrade and refurbishment 
work scope, including condition driven 
works such as hull steel replacement 
and piping renewals, as well as 
accommodation refurbishment and the 
complete repainting of the rig. On 
completion of the project in October 
2008 the rig returned to India to resume 
its contract with Reliance and ONGC.
Hercules 261 and 262
Hercules rigs 261 and 262 arrived at 
Lamprell’s Sharjah facility in June 2008. 
The rigs were transported on a heavy  
lift vessel from the Gulf of Mexico after 
Hercules secured drilling contracts with 
Saudi Aramco. The works scope included 
spud can repairs, accommodation 
upgrades including the fabrication  
and installation of additional modules,  
leg repairs and the installation of a fifth 
generator. The works were successfully 
completed in November 2008.
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
20 Business review
projects to assist our clients by providing 
our services on location at drilling sites.
Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction
Throughout 2008 Lamprell continued the 
construction of a range of major EPC 
new build projects. These projects are 
being executed at both our Jebel Ali and 
Hamriyah Free Zone facilities.
Seajacks liftboats
Throughout 2008 we have continued the 
construction of two harsh environment 
special purpose self-propelled four 
legged jackup “liftboats” for Seajacks 
International Limited. These turnkey 
contracts cover all aspects of project 
execution from design to delivery. The 
first unit, the Seajacks Kraken was 
loaded out from our Jebel Ali facility in 
September 2008 and transported to our 
Hamriyah facility for completion and 
commissioning. The Kraken was 
subsequently successfully delivered to 
Seajacks in March 2009. The second 
liftboat, Seajacks Leviathan, will be 
delivered to Seajacks later in 2009.
Scorpion S116E jackup drilling rigs
Throughout 2008 construction has 
continued at Lamprell’s Hamriyah facility 
on the Offshore Freedom and Offshore 
Mischief LeTourneau design S116E 
jackup drilling rigs for Scorpion Freedom 
Ltd and Scorpion Rigs Ltd. The Offshore 
Freedom hull was launched using 
Lamprell’s semi-submersible barge, 
Hamriyah Pride, in September 2008 and 
the rig is scheduled for final delivery to 
Scorpion in April 2009. The construction 
of the Offshore Mischief continues in the 
yard with the load out of the hull 
scheduled for later in 2009.
BassDrill tender assist drilling units
In June 2008 we announced the contract 
award from BassDrill for the construction 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
21 Review of 
Operations
(continued)
of two self-erecting tender assist drilling 
units. The engineering and procurement 
activities relating to the first unit are now 
significantly advanced and construction of 
the vessel and the modular mast 
equipment package is ongoing at our 
Jebel Ali facility. The first unit will be 
delivered later in 2009 and work on the 
second unit is scheduled to commence 
thereafter.
Human resources
Attracting, developing and retaining 
talented staff is still of paramount 
importance to the success of Lamprell as 
a business. At Lamprell we consider our 
employees to be our greatest asset and 
the continuous development and 
multi-skilling of our staff remains a focus 
for our growth success. The Human 
Resources Department has developed 
policies and best practices for effective 
employee management enabling 
managers to capitalise on the strengths 
of the employees and their ability to 
contribute to the accomplishment of 
work. It is recognised that successful 
employee management helps employee 
motivation, employee development, and 
employee retention.
Retention was an issue of concern for all 
major players in the oil and gas industry 
at the beginning of the year. However at 
Lamprell the retention issues were 
minimised due to the Company’s 
successful benchmarking, job matching 
and “career ladder” methodologies. This 
was combined with communication of 
clear expectations to the employee, 
providing frequent feedback and making 
the employee feel valued.
The provision of purpose built 
accommodation and transportation for 
the labour force further enhanced our 
ability to manage the retention issues and 
dramatically improved the quality and 
work life balance expectations of the 
employees. 
We aim to provide a safe and supportive 
work environment to our employees from 
diverse cultural backgrounds and in an 
environment that provides a competitive 
compensation programme that is 
affordable to the Company. We believe this 
continues to be our market differentiator 
and will strengthen our position as an 
“employer of choice”. These will continue 
to be our goals in 2009 and beyond. 
The HR department continues to work 
closely with senior business leaders on 
strategy execution, in particular designing 
HR systems and processes that address 
strategic business issues, organisational 
and people capability building, longer 
term resource and talent management 
planning, and intelligence gathering of 
good people management practices 
internally and externally. 
General recruitment
The recruitment drive continues with over 
5,400 permanent staff in the Company at 
the end of 2008, a 26% increase in 
headcount during the year. Our search 
for new and talented staff is a continual 
process as a result of the competitive 
market in which the Company operates. 
As a result of the growth that Lamprell 
has experienced, we aim to recruit staff 
with the requisite skills and professional 
experience to add value to the Company 
and the service which we offer to our 
clients. This is particularly so in the areas 
of engineering and project management, 
where we clearly differentiate ourselves 
from our competitors.
Operating facilities
In accordance with our strategy to 
promote organic growth we maintained 
our capital investment programme 
throughout 2008. The aim of this 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
22 Business review
investment is to increase our capacity, 
increase our existing levels of productivity 
and improve the working environment for 
both yard and administrative personnel.
The construction of our new 250,000m
2
 
facility in the Hamriyah free zone is 
continuing and remains an exciting focus 
point of Lamprell’s development. The 
dredging work is now complete and the 
1.25km quay wall is close to completion, 
with the inner basin having been 
completed in early 2009. In addition, the 
construction of the main office, client 
office and main workshops are all 
ongoing and several construction areas 
have been completed. As planned we 
now expect that the first jackup drilling rig 
will undergo refurbishment work at the 
quayside during March 2009.
In May 2008 Lamprell signed an initial five 
year lease for a 46,950m
2
 facility with 
158m of exclusive deep water quayside in 
Sattahip, Thailand. The facility has 
subsequently been enhanced with 
offices, fabrication areas and equipment 
and the first revenue generating project, 
Rig Ensco 51 arrived at the facility in the 
first quarter of 2009 for minor 
refurbishment works.
In Jebel Ali we completed the construction 
of an extension to our existing production 
facility. This building has three levels and it 
provides increased covered storage 
capacity on the ground floor with 
additional office space for project 
personnel on the first and second floors.
During the year our investment in operating 
equipment also continued including mobile 
cranes, forklift trucks, generators and 
automated welding equipment. 
Nigel McCue
Chief Operating Officer
Lamprell’s new facility at Hamriyah, with 
1.25km of direct quayside access, will  
be operational at the end of the first 
quarter of 2009. One of the most  
modern facilities in the Middle East, the 
new Hamriyah site offers the Company 
significant scope and flexibility to satisfy 
customer demand in a variety of  
business segments going forward. 
First jackup drilling rig refurbishment work 
expected in April 2009.
 1 .25km
of direct quayside access
Hamriyah offers exciting potential
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
23 Financial 
Review
Group revenue increased by 58.5% to  
USD 740.8 million (2007: USD 467.3 million) 
reflecting strong growth over the prior year. 
Scott Doak, Chief Financial Officer
This growth was largely driven by a 
significant increase in revenue generated 
from EPC projects comprising three new 
build jackups, two liftboats and the first 
self erecting tender assist drilling unit. 
Revenue from other key activities 
reflected a strong performance but 
generally was lower than 2007 as the 
prior year reflected exceptional revenues, 
particularly with respect to jackup rig 
upgrade and refurbishment activities. The 
offshore new build activity, based in Jebel 
Ali, also reflected a lower level of revenue 
for the year with projects largely being 
completed in the first half of the year and 
no significant new projects planned to 
commence until H1 2009. Revenue from 
Oilfield Engineering services, related to 
the refurbishment and construction of 
land rigs and land camps, reflected initial 
revenues from the construction of four 
new build fast moving land rigs under a 
contract with LeTourneau Drilling 
Systems Inc. The Group revenue includes 
the results of International Inspection 
Services Limited, with revenue growth 
resulting from a significant increase in  
the demand for the inspection and 
non-destructive testing services the 
subsidiary provides.
Gross profit increased by 19.9% to USD 
129.3 million (2007: USD 107.8 million) 
resulting in a gross margin of 17.5% 
(2007: 23.1%). This decrease is mainly 
due to the higher level of lower margin 
EPC activity, the margin being lower as a 
result of the higher level of procurement 
with respect to both material purchases 
and the level of sub-contractor work. In 
addition, the year reflected a lower level 
of higher margin rig refurbishment activity 
than the prior year and a lower level of 
completions of major offshore 
+23%
Increase in operating profit.
9.55c
Per share dividend.
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
24 Business review
construction new build activities 
undertaken in the Jebel Ali facility. The 
projects in 2007 reflected a number of 
positive variations and also included 
contract completion bonuses. 
Operating profit in 2008 was USD 82.5 
million (2007: USD 67.3 million) reflecting 
an increase of 22.6%. This includes 
exceptional charges in the current year for 
share based payments of USD 6.6 million 
(2007: USD 14.7 million) related to shares 
granted at the time of the admission of 
Lamprell plc to AIM and also before 
reflecting various legal and professional 
charges amounting to USD 3.4 million 
(2007: USD nil) incurred in connection  
with the admission of Lamprell plc  
to the Main Market of the London Stock 
Exchange plc. The operating profit before 
these exceptional charges amounts to 
USD 92.5 million (2007: USD 82.0 million) 
representing an increase of 12.8% over 
the prior year and largely reflects a strong 
growth in revenue. 
The operating profit margin decreased 
from 14.4% in 2007 to 11.1% in 2008 
largely reflecting a decreased gross 
margin as a result of the change in 
revenue mix, offset by lower exceptional 
charges and reflecting the impact of 
operational gearing with respect to the 
significant growth in revenue. The 
operating margin prior to exceptional 
charges decreased to 12.5% 
(2007: 17.5%). 
As a result of the strong revenue growth 
and strong operational performance, net 
profit increased by 19.6% to USD 85.5 
million (2007: USD 71.5 million). The net 
margin decreased to 11.5% (2007: 15.3%) 
primarily due to the decrease in the 
Group’s operating margin and a decrease 
in net interest income to USD 3.0 million 
(2007: USD 4.2 million) largely reflecting 
lower average deposit rates achieved on 
cash balances held by the Group during 
the year. The net profit before exceptional 
charges amounts to USD 95.5 million 
(2007: USD 86.2 million) reflecting an 
increase of 10.8% over the previous year. 
The net margin before exceptional charges 
decreased to 12.9% (2007: 18.4%).
 
EBITDA increased to USD 92.3 million 
(2007: USD 74.8 million) reflecting an 
increase of 23.4% over the prior year. 
EBITDA margin for the year decreased to 
12.5% (2007: 16.0%) largely in line with 
the decrease in operating margin. Prior to 
charging exceptional costs for the year, 
EBITDA increased to USD 102.3 million in 
2008 (2007: USD 89.5 million) with a 
margin of 13.8% (2007: 19.1%).
Interest income
Interest income of USD 3.0 million (2007: 
USD 4.2 million) relates mainly to bank 
interest earned on surplus funds 
deposited on a short-term basis with the 
Company’s bankers. The decrease 
reflects a lower level of average deposit 
rates achieved during the year offset by 
an increase in average funds on deposit 
during 2008 when compared to 2007. 
Taxation
The Company, which is incorporated in 
the Isle of Man, has no income tax liability 
for the year ended 31 December 2008 as 
it is taxable at 0% in line with local Isle of 
Man tax legislation. The Group is not 
currently subject to income tax in respect 
Results for the year from operations
 2008 2007 
 USD ’000 USD ’000
Revenue 740,831 467,332
Gross profit 129,303 107,800
Operating profit 82,462 67,301
Net profit 85,455 71,550
EBITDA 92,308 74,830
of its operations carried out in the United 
Arab Emirates, and does not anticipate 
any liability to income tax arising in the 
foreseeable future. On 4 December 
2008, Lamprell Asia Limited, was granted 
Board of Investment privileges which 
allows the Company’s wholly owned 
subsidiary in Thailand to operate with a 
tax exempt status for a period of up to 
eight years.
Earnings per share
Fully diluted earnings per share for 2008 
increased to 42.59 cents (2007: 35.72 
cents) reflecting primarily the improved 
profit of the Group for the year. 
 
Operating cash flow and liquidity
The Group’s net cash flow from operating 
activities for the year was USD 18.3 
million (2007: USD 176.8 million). The net 
cash flow from operations was lower than 
the prior year and mainly reflected 
increased profit for the period offset by 
movements in working capital, largely 
comprising an increase in trade and other 
receivables, including an amount due 
from a major EPC customer which was 
largely cleared subsequent to the year 
end. Amounts due from customers on 
contracts from predominantly EPC 
projects also increased reflecting the 
advanced stages of certain EPC projects. 
Payments have been received post year 
end against these balances.
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
25 Net proﬁt margin
%
2006 2007 2008
10.3
15.3
11.5
Earnings per share (diluted)
US cents
2006 2007 2008
16.9
35.7
42.6
EBITDA margin
%
2006 2007 2008
11.5
16.0
12.5
Capex
USD million
2006 2007 2008
24.0
15.0
54.4
Revenue
USD million
2006 2007 2008
329.6
467.3
740.8
Financial 
Review
(continued)
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
26 Business review
The amounts due to customers on 
contracts was USD 72.5 million (2007: 
USD 95.1 million) which includes cash 
advances due to customers of USD 31.3 
million (2007: USD 86.5 million). Other 
working capital movements reflect timing 
differences in respect to other receivables 
and also supplier commitments primarily 
on the larger EPC contracts. 
Investing activities for the year absorbed 
USD 47.9 million (2007: USD 21.4 million) 
as a result of a significant investment in 
property, plant and equipment amounting 
to USD 54.4 million (2007: USD 15.0 
million) largely comprising the purchase 
of operating equipment and investment in 
new buildings. This investment activity 
was offset by interest income of USD 3.0 
million received from surplus funds and 
also the release of margin deposits of 
USD 3.5 million. 
Net cash used in financing activities was 
USD 29.4 million (2007: USD 22.6 million). 
This represents dividend payments of 
USD 37.5 million (2007: USD 22.5 million) 
and the purchase of treasury shares to 
meet the settlement of share awards to 
certain directors and staff of USD 2.6 
million. This was offset by an increase in 
short term borrowings of USD 10.7 million. 
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure on property, plant 
and equipment during the year amounted 
to USD 54.4 million (2007: USD 15.0 
million). The main area of expenditure 
was the investment in operating 
equipment amounting to USD 23.5 million 
to support the growth in activities 
experienced during the year and to 
replace hired equipment where this was 
deemed cost effective. Expenditure on 
cranes reflects an investment of USD 15.1 
million. Further expenditure on buildings 
and related infrastructure at Group 
facilities amounted to USD 27.1 million, 
including capital work-in-progress,  
with additional committed expenditure 
amounting to USD 25.4 million reflecting 
the development of the infrastructure of 
the Company at all facilities but primarily 
expenditure at the new Hamriyah facility.
Shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity increased from USD 
158.8 million at 31 December 2007 to 
USD 212.3 million at 31 December 2008. 
The movement mainly reflects the 
retained profits for the year of USD 85.5 
million net of dividends declared of USD 
37.4 million. The movement also reflects a 
credit for the accounting of share based 
payments of USD 8.1 million made to 
certain Directors and employees of the 
Group and charged to General and 
Administrative expenses. 
Shareholders’ equity includes a Merger 
reserve amounting to USD 22.4 million that 
was created in the year ended 31 
December 2006 as a result of Lamprell 
plc, on 25 September 2006, entering into  
a share for share exchange agreement 
with LEL and LHL under which it acquired 
100% of the 49,003 shares of LEL from 
LHL in consideration for the issue and 
transfer to LHL of 200,000,000 shares  
of the Company. This acquisition was 
accounted for using the uniting of interests 
method and the difference between the 
nominal value of shares issued by the 
Company (USD 18.7 million) and the 
nominal value of LEL shares acquired  
(USD 0.082 million) was taken to the 
merger reserve. In addition, during 2006 
LEL acquired 100% of the legal and 
beneficial ownership of Inspec from LHL 
for a consideration of USD 4 million on 
11 September 2006. This acquisition was 
accounted for using the uniting of interests 
method and the difference between the 
purchase consideration (USD 4 million) and 
share capital of Inspec (USD 0.15 million) 
was taken to the merger reserve. 
Dividends
For the year ended 31 December 2008, 
the Board of Directors of the Group 
having duly considered the current 
market conditions, profit earned, cash 
generated during the year and taking 
note of the capital commitments for the 
year 2009, recommend a final dividend of 
3.15 cents per share. If approved this will 
be paid to shareholders on 18 June 2009 
provided they were on the register on 
22 May 2009. 
Scott Doak
Chief Financial Officer
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
27 Risk Factors
Risk Factors
As an oil and gas related business with 
current operations concentrated in the 
United Arab Emirates and Thailand, the 
Company is, by virtue of the nature of its 
business and the countries in which it 
operates, subject to a variety of business 
risks. Outlined below is a description of 
the principal risk factors that may affect 
the Group’s business. Such risk factors 
are not intended to be presented in any 
assumed order of priority. 
Any of the risks and uncertainties 
discussed in this document, could have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s 
business. In addition, the risks set out 
below may not be exhaustive and 
additional risks and uncertainties, not 
presently known to the Company, or 
which the Company currently deems 
immaterial, may arise or become material 
in the future. In particular, the Company’s 
performance might be affected by 
changes in market and/or economic 
Business risks Demand for the Company’s services 
may be adversely impacted by a fall in 
the levels of expenditure by oil and 
gas companies;
The Company is subject to counterparty 
credit risk;
The Group’s growth in the longer term 
may be dependent on the availability of 
financing both for its own future projects 
and for its customers;
The Company may be unable to utilise 
equipment purchased in advance, if 
it is unable to find customers for 
such equipment;
On certain projects, The Company 
operates on the basis of lump sum 
contracts and is therefore subject to 
financial risk if it fails to operate within 
budget. The Company may also be 
subject to liquidated damages payments 
if it fails to complete its contracts on time;
The Company is dependent on a 
relatively small number of contracts at 
any given time, many of which are for the 
same customers;
The Company operates on a project-by-
project basis for EPC contracts and it 
does not have long-term commitments 
with the majority of its customers, which 
may cause its visible order book to 
fluctuate significantly;
The Company’s visible order book for 
upgrade and refurbishment work is 
usually relatively short and can 
fluctuate significantly;
The Company’s revenues, cash flow 
and earnings may vary in any period 
depending on a number of factors, 
including its performance on 
major contracts;
The Group may be affected by the 
actions of third parties, including sub-
contractors and manufacturers; the 
Company may be adversely affected by 
inflation and rising labour costs; 
The Company operates in a highly 
competitive industry and its ability to 
compete successfully depends on its 
ability to provide and service high quality 
products and systems;
The Company operates in markets where 
legal systems are still developing and 
which do not offer the certainty or 
predictability of legal systems in 
mature markets;
The Company is subject to a variety of 
local and federal regulations in the UAE 
and Thailand; certain countries in which 
the Company’s customers operate have 
experienced armed conflict or terrorism.
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
28 Business review
conditions and in legal, regulatory and 
tax requirements. Additionally, there may 
be risks of which the Board is not aware 
or believes to be immaterial which may,  
in the future, adversely affect the  
Group’s business.
The management conducts an annual 
risk assessment and review and 
wherever possible effort is made to 
mitigate risks or transfer risks through 
purchase of insurance. 
Human resources risks The Company faces significant 
challenges in attracting and retaining 
sufficient numbers of skilled personnel;
The Company depends on the 
performance of its President, Directors, 
Senior Managers and other essential 
employees and if it loses any of these key 
personnel, its business may be impaired; 
and
The Company’s ability to perform its 
contractual obligations may be adversely 
affected by work stoppages and other 
labour problems.
Liability risks The Company could be subject to 
substantial liability claims due to the 
hazardous nature of its business;
Liability to customers under warranties 
may materially and adversely affect The 
Company’s earnings;
The Company’s business is subject to 
risks resulting from product defects, faulty 
workmanship or errors in design as well as 
warranty claims and other liabilities;
The Company may be involved in 
litigation in the future; and
The Company conducts its business 
within an increasingly strict environmental 
and health and safety regime and may be 
exposed to potential liabilities and 
increased compliance costs.
Taxation risks Changes in the fiscal regime of the UAE 
or Thailand could adversely impact the 
financial condition of the Group.
Hazards Hazards constitute perils such as fire and 
flood. Hazards are managed through 
prevention, mitigation, continuity planning 
and risk transfer through the purchase 
of insurance.
Financial risks An analysis of the financial risks can be 
found on pages 68 to 70.
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
29 Headcount
Nos.
2006 2007 2008
3,331
4,331
5,447
Corporate  
Social  
Responsibility
Lamprell is a socially responsible employer and 
is committed to maintaining the highest Health, 
Safety and Environmental standards. 
A commitment to the local 
community
At Lamprell, we recognise the value of 
fulfilling our responsibilities as a corporate 
citizen, believing that by doing so we will 
bring benefits to all our stakeholders. 
Having been based in Dubai since 1977 ,  
the Company is rooted in a community 
within which it has worked for over 30 years 
and it has both benefited from, and been a 
contributor to, that community’s 
development during that period. As a result 
of both this history and the international 
nature of our business, we believe we are 
fortunate to have a local business with a 
genuinely global perspective, and a rich 
variety of cultures and backgrounds from 
which to draw expertise and experience.
Formalising our principles
Our commitment to act as a responsible 
corporate player has long been reflected 
throughout the entire organisation, but 
the Group has recently formalised this 
approach by creating and implementing a 
set of policies that state the principles by 
which we seek to manage our operational 
activities, work with our staff and host 
communities, and minimise our impact 
on the environment.
Our business, the provision of 
construction services to the oil and gas 
industry, requires the highest standards 
of engineering skill and Health, Safety 
and Environment awareness. Our 
fundamental principle is to carry out 
these activities in a way that delivers the 
best possible product to our customers 
whilst minimising risks and maximising 
rewards to our wider stakeholders.
Accordingly, when we make all our 
investment and operational decisions,  
we take account of the social and 
environmental impacts that they may 
have, and minimising these is a central 
part of our decision-making process.
As a publicly listed company our aim is to 
ensure that our reporting meets all the 
requisite levels of scrutiny for a business 
of our size and areas of activity. 
Maintaining our reputation by aligning our 
commercial goals with our ethical 
standards is an essential part of 
achieving this aim. 
Social initiatives
In 2008, we continued to work closely 
with local communities, business 
partners and regulatory authorities to 
make a positive difference within the 
localities where we operate.
In particular we at Lamprell are aware of 
the cultural mix of our employees with 
some 80% originating from India. 
Lamprell’s training and development 
programme called “LEARN2WORK”, 
developed jointly with the DBMA in 
Mumbai, India, was initially set up as a 
training school for potential welders and 
fabricators who would ultimately join the 
Company after qualification. In 2008, 260 
qualified employees joined Lamprell 
further to this scheme. 
The “WORK2LIVE” programme 
introduced in January 2008 to provide 
welfare, education and support to 
disadvantaged young people in the North 
West of India was an extension to the 
initial “LEARN2WORK” programme. The 
concept of the programme is to provide 
sufficient support to the disadvantaged 
such that they will ultimately acquire a 
working skill which will enable them to 
become self sufficient. This broad 
spectrum education and training 
programme will ultimately produce better 
educated and skilled members of society 
who can rise above the poverty line and 
become productive members of society. 
We believe that both the wider 
community and Lamprell will benefit. We 
have the advantage of not only providing 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
30 Business review
the financial resources to provide this 
education and training but ultimately  
to provide direct employment within  
our Company.
At the beginning of 2009 the above 
programmes, which are related to the 
provision of labour, have been suspended 
due to the current economic conditions. 
Don Bosco Snehalaya is a project 
focused on the street children and youth, 
living in the city of Vadodara. The basic 
objective of Snehalaya is to provide 
shelter to the young living on the railway 
platforms and in the streets, and other 
vulnerable children who are in need of 
care and protection. Snehalaya provides 
food, clothes, medicines, recreational 
facilities, counselling, job placement, 
contact with their families, and training in 
trades according to their capacities and 
individual circumstances. They are given 
opportunities to interact with the public, 
to express their potential and their 
talents. This helps them to develop their 
self confidence and the awareness that 
they too can contribute something to 
society. Ultimately, Snehalaya aims at 
enabling these street children to return to 
a decent life within mainstream society.
People
Attracting, developing and retaining 
talented staff is a major challenge for the 
oil and gas industry and at Lamprell we 
are fortunate to have high quality people 
across the whole range of our services.  
It is therefore vital for our continued 
success that we encourage our staff’s 
personal development and career 
progression, and treat our people with 
respect, maturity and openness. We also 
invest significantly in building their skill 
sets. We are confident that this approach 
is the one most likely to enable us to 
achieve our business objectives by 
providing quality, continuity and growth. 
In 2008, the Company worked closely with 
local communities, business partners and 
regulatory authorities.
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
31 Corporate  
Social  
Responsibility
(continued)
Our policy is to ensure equal opportunity 
in career development, promotion, 
training and reward for all of our 
employees. We aim to ensure that all our 
employees understand our business 
goals and our business principles through 
ongoing communications programmes.
With a diverse range of nationalities 
working within the Group, we also  
respect and recognise the value of 
different cultures.
Health, safety, environment and 
security summary (“HSES”) 
Given the nature and demands of our 
business, ensuring a high level of 
performance in health, safety, 
environment and security is absolutely 
essential, and Lamprell has a strong track 
record in these areas. We are very 
conscious though that there is no room 
for complacency in HSES and we seek to 
improve our performance year-on-year.
Health and safety
Internal measures for health and safety 
performance are very important to  
ensure focus on this area of our business. 
Our aim for 2008 was to maintain and 
improve the developed “safety culture” 
within the organisation, with all staff 
encouraged to report any activities they 
perceive as not conforming to best 
practice through the improved and 
incentive linked in-house Safety 
Observation Audit Programme so that 
any areas of oversight can be rectified 
and brought up to the highest possible 
standard as quickly as possible.
 
A major contributory factor this year was 
the implementation of the revised 
reporting system for administering first 
aid treatments. This system through the 
reporting and analysing of first aid case 
trends, identified potential areas for LTI. 
As a result of this approach, we have 
developed an even stronger track record  
in the area of safety. Lamprell has 
established a safety record which is 
exceptional for the oil and gas construction 
industry and we have seen ongoing, 
progressive improvements in these safety 
figures over the past five years.
The facilities individually achieved LTI 
statistics as follows: 
  LTI 
  Frequency 
 LTI Rate
Sharjah 2 0.38
Jebel Ali 1 0.19
Hamriyah 7 2.15
LOEF 1 1.00
However, whilst our own measurement  
of our safety performance is essential,  
we also recognise the importance of 
external analysis of our methods and 
have achieved relevant accreditation by 
third parties of our capabilities. 
In 2008 Lamprell maintained the 
accreditation with the management 
system certificate ISO 14001: 2004 and 
the Occupational, Health and Safety 
Assessment Series, OHSAS 18001:1999.
Environment
Across all our activities we seek to 
minimise the mark we leave on the  
sites at which we work. A good example 
is at Hamriyah where, as we expand  
our existing facility, we are seeking  
ways to minimise our impact on the local 
environment and increase our energy 
efficiency and recycling capability. 
Throughout our business by delivering 
the best possible product to our 
customers utilising the most up to  
date technologies, we also have  
a direct impact on the environmental 
performance of the rigs we refurbish by 
improving their systems and ensuring 
they conform to all relevant international 
legislation. 
Our policy is to strive to achieve  
continual improvement in environmental 
performance. We are committed to 
preventing pollution and reducing the 
overall impact of our operations on the 
environment. In addition, we maintain an 
internal management structure for the 
management of environmental issues 
which includes clearly defined 
responsibilities for environmental 
management capable of delivering this 
policy commitment.
At all times Lamprell aims to comply  
with, and where possible, exceed 
applicable legal and other requirements 
relating to the organisation. We are  
also committed to monitoring our 
environmental performance and setting 
objectives and targets for improvement 
and at all times provide appropriate 
training and awareness programmes  
for our staff.
Waste management policy
All businesses affect the environment 
through the use of resources and 
discharge of waste products. Our Waste 
Management Policy is therefore 
consistent with our broader 
Environmental Policy, which includes a 
stated commitment to minimise the 
environmental impacts of our operations 
and prevent pollution. Our aim is to limit 
our discharge of waste material wherever 
we can and the policy lays out how we 
seek to achieve this goal. 
Security
During this year Lamprell identified the 
requirement to heighten internal and 
external security controls of its assets on 
behalf of all stakeholders. These controls 
were in the form of the development of 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
32 Business review
security procedures, a new corporate 
wide security access system and 
increased physical security presence. 
Quality
Lamprell aims to achieve maximum 
customer satisfaction and quality of 
product. In the pursuit of this objective 
the Company will comply with all national 
and international standards and 
requirements with respect to quality 
assurance. Lamprell will also strive to 
optimise resources and reduce wastage 
in the development of our facilities and 
training of personnel. Whilst aiming to 
meet these objectives the Company 
ensures cost effective jobs and services, 
and delivery on time.
Lamprell meets these objectives by 
understanding customer requirements, 
working together with our customers to 
meet those requirements, understanding 
our processes well and monitoring  
and measuring our activities. Ultimately 
the Company strives to continually 
improve the Quality Management 
Systems and operations.
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
33 Board of 
Directors
1 
2
4 5
6 7
3
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
34 Business review
3 Nigel Robert McCue (57)
Chief Operating Officer
Nigel McCue was appointed to the Board 
on 7 July 2006 as a Non-Executive 
Director prior to being appointed to the 
Executive position of Chief Operating 
Officer in May 2008. He is expected to 
take up the position of Chief Executive 
Officer in June 2009 at the time Peter 
Whitbread assumes his new role with the 
Company. Nigel has over 30 years of 
experience in the petroleum industry and, 
prior to being appointed Chief Operating 
Officer of Lamprell, he was a Director and 
the Chief Executive Officer of Jura Energy 
Corporation, a company listed on the 
Toronto Stock Exchange, and is now the 
Chairman and a member of the 
Compensation Committee of that 
company. He is also a Director of 
Nemmoco Petroleum Limited, a private 
exploration and production company and 
Frontier Acquisition Company Limited. 
Prior to this, he was a Director and the 
Chief Financial Officer of Lundin 
Petroleum AB. Nigel has also held various 
positions with Chevron Overseas Inc. and 
Gulf Oil Corporation. Nigel is the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director, 
within the definition of the FRC Combined 
Code, of Dragon Oil plc, where he is the 
Chairman of its Audit Committee and a 
member of the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
4 Scott Doak (47) 
Chief Financial Officer
Scott Doak joined Lamprell in March 
2007. Scott is responsible for the finance 
and administration activities of Lamprell. 
Prior to joining Lamprell, he worked for 
Reuters Limited, based in Dubai, in the 
position of Head of Finance for Middle 
East & Africa, where he was a member of 
the Senior Management Group involved 
in strategic planning and market 
development. Previously he has held 
senior financial roles with Telerate 
Limited, Dubai, Price Waterhouse, Dubai 
and Whinney Murray & Company (Saudi 
affiliate to Ernst & Young). Scott is a 
member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland and has a 
Bachelor of Accountancy from the 
University of Glasgow.
1 Jonathan Silver (56)
Chairman
Jonathan Silver was appointed to the 
Board on 24 August 2007 and was 
appointed as the Chairman of the 
Company on 27 March 2009. Jonathan 
trained with a leading City of London law 
firm and qualified as a solicitor in 1978, 
working first in London and later in the 
United Arab Emirates. In 1981, he started 
his own practice in the United Arab 
Emirates and merged that practice with 
Clyde & Co in 1989. Since then he has 
headed up Clyde & Co’s operations in the 
region, creating the largest international 
law firm operating in the Middle East. 
Jonathan chairs Clyde & Co’s regional 
management board and represents the 
region on the firm’s global management 
board. Throughout his career in the legal 
profession, Jonathan has worked in the 
areas of international banking and finance, 
mergers & acquisitions, private equity, 
project and construction work involving 
him in most sectors of commercial activity 
including international trade, energy, 
construction, shipping, commodities and 
insurance. He has advised the boards of 
public and private companies from around 
the world extensively on their obligations, 
responsibilities and governance 
arrangements. Jonathan has, for more 
than 20 years, been associated with the 
Lamprell Group, providing legal advice  
on numerous matters including on the 
Company’s listing on AIM and more 
recently, the Official List. Jonathan is 
currently a Director of International 
General Insurance Holdings Limited  
and Tri-Emirates Property Corporation.
 
2 Peter Whitbread (64)
Chief Executive Officer 
Peter Whitbread joined Lamprell in 1992. 
Peter is a Chartered Quantity Surveyor 
with over 35 years of experience in the oil 
and gas services sector, with extensive 
experience in managing marine 
construction companies and in the direct 
project management of a wide range of 
major marine projects, heavy marine 
equipment and vessels. He is currently the 
Chief Executive Officer of the Group and 
was also the Chairman of the Group until 
5 February 2008 when he resigned from 
that position. He is expected to hand over 
his current responsibilities to Nigel McCue 
in May 2009 and take up the position of 
Director of International Development. 
During his career he has held a number of 
other senior management positions and 
directorships with marine construction 
companies in the Middle East region.
5 Colin Goodall (64) 
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Colin Goodall was appointed to the Board 
on 14 September 2008. He is also the 
Chairman of Dana Petroleum plc; 
Parkmead Group plc and Sindicatum 
Carbon Capital Ltd. Colin qualified as a 
chartered accountant and is a member of 
the Chartered Institute of Taxation. He 
spent most of his career in the upstream 
oil & gas industry with BP plc, where he 
joined the finance team in 1975, later 
becoming the first Chief of Staff within the 
BP Group. From 1995 to 1999 he served 
as Chief Financial Officer for BP Europe 
and then as BP’s senior representative in 
Russia. His career has involved 
assignments in Africa, the Middle East, 
Europe, Russia and the Americas.
6 Richard Germain Daniel Raynaut (53)
Non-Executive Director
Richard Raynaut was appointed to the 
Board on 7 July 2006. Richard has been 
involved in the oil and gas industry since 
1977 when he was appointed as an 
accountant at IHC Caland. Between 1977 
and 2004, he held a variety of positions 
at IHC Caland (renamed SBM Offshore), 
including Chief Accountant, Treasurer 
and Financial Controller. From 2000 to 
2004, he was appointed the Chief 
Financial Officer of the offshore division 
and was an Executive board member of 
Single Buoy Moorings Inc. From January 
2005 onwards he has been involved in  
Sri Lanka, with the charity Monaco Aide 
et Presence.
7 Brian Fredrick (57)
Non-Executive Director
Brian Fredrick was appointed to the 
Board on 1 January 2009. He spent most 
of his career in the financial services 
industry in Asia and the Middle East and 
worked in the United Arab Emirates in the 
1980s and 1990s. He has also worked 
for HSBC in Hong Kong, where he was 
HSBC Asia-Pacific Head of International 
between 2003 and 2007 and in Brunei, 
and Vietnam. He was the Chief Executive 
Officer of HSBC’s operations in Mauritius, 
the Philippines and Indonesia for over  
ten years. He has served on the boards 
of a number of companies including  
A. Soriano Corporation and Concrete 
Aggregates Inc, both quoted on  
the Philippine Stock Exchange, 
Techcombank, one of the largest private 
sector banks in Vietnam and was 
Chairman of HSBC Bank (Mauritius) Ltd.
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
35 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
36
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Company and the Group together with the financial statements and 
Auditors’ Report, for the year ended 31 December 2008. Lamprell plc is the holding company of the Group and all its issued, and 
authorised, ordinary shares were admitted to listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange on 6 November 2008.
Principal activities
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of specialised refurbishment and construction services to the oil and gas 
industry. The Group operates through a number of subsidiaries which are set out in Note 1 to the financial statements.
The principal activity of the Company is to act as a holding company for the Group.
Results and dividends
The financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008 are as set out on pages 55 to 61. The Group net 
profit for the year amounted to USD 85.5 million (2007: USD 71.5 million). 
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.15 cents per ordinary share with a Sterling equivalent of 2.18 pence per ordinary 
share which, if approved, will be paid on 18 June 2009 to eligible shareholders on the register at 22 May 2009. The Company has 
paid an interim dividend of 6.40 cents per share in November 2008, which makes the total dividend per ordinary share for the year 
9.55 cents. 
There was a transfer of USD 53.5 million to retained earnings for the year ended 31 December 2008 representing the profit for the 
year, less dividends paid, adjustments for share based payments and the purchase of treasury shares. For details refer to the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 58. 
Business review and future developments
A full review of the Group’s activities during the year, recent events and future developments is contained in the Chairman’s 
Statement on pages 4 to 5, the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement on pages 6 to 9, the Review of Operations on pages 18 to 23, 
and the Financial Review on pages 24 to 27. 
Corporate governance and corporate social responsibility
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 39 to 43 and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 30 to 33 provide 
full details on the efforts made by the Company in these areas.
Directors’ remuneration report
Details of Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2008 can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 44 to 53.
Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors consisting of not fewer than two but not more than 12 
Directors, who manage the business and affairs of the Company. The Directors may appoint additional or replacement Directors, 
who shall serve until the next AGM of the Company at which point they will be required to stand for election by the members. At 
each AGM one-third or the number nearest to one third of the Directors are required to retire by rotation and they may stand for 
re-election. A Director may be removed from office at a general meeting by the passing of an Ordinary Resolution.
The Directors who served in office during the financial year were as follows:
Jonathan Silver
Peter Whitbread
Nigel McCue
Scott Doak
Colin Goodall (appointed as Director on 14 September 2008)
Richard Raynaut
Peter Birch (resigned as Director on 19 December 2008)
David Moran (resigned as Director on 2 November 2008).
Brian Fredrick joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2009.
Directors’ interests
The Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 52. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
37
Corporate governance
Capital structure and significant shareholders
Details of the authorised and issued share capital together with details of movements in share capital during the year are included 
in Note 22 to the financial statements. The Company has one class of share in issue, ordinary shares of 5 pence each, all of which 
are fully paid. Each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights including one vote per share on a poll at general meetings of the 
Company, subject to the terms of the Company’s Articles of Association and applicable laws. Votes may be exercised by 
shareholders attending or otherwise duly represented at general meetings. Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights by proxy on 
a poll at a general meeting are detailed in the Notice of Meeting and proxy cards issued in connection with the relevant meeting. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares. 
Details of employee share schemes are disclosed on page 48 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and in Note 7 to the financial 
statements. During the year, 318,258 ordinary shares of 5 pence at nil price were granted under the free share award scheme 
(2007: 99,365). At the year end 870,718 ordinary shares of 5 pence under the free share award scheme and options on 105,369 
ordinary shares of 5 pence under the executive share option scheme remained outstanding. 
Pursuant to the Company’s share schemes, the employee benefit trust as at the year-end, held a total of 669,257 ordinary shares 
of 5 pence, representing 0.33% of the issued share capital. The voting rights attaching to these shares can not be exercised 
directly by the employees, but can be exercised by the Trustees. However, in line with good practice, the Trustees do not exercise 
these voting rights. In the event of another company taking control of the Company, the employee share schemes operated by the 
Company have set change of control provisions. In short, awards may, in certain circumstances and in approved proportions, be 
allowed to vest early or be allowed to be exchanged for awards of equivalent value in the acquiring company.
The Company was given authority at the 2008 AGM to make market purchases of up to 20,000,000 ordinary shares of £0.05. This 
authority will expire at the 2009 AGM, where approval from shareholders will be sought to renew the authority. 
Approval from shareholders is also proposed to be sought to authorise the Directors to allot the Company’s unissued shares up to 
a maximum nominal amount of £3,000,000, representing approximately 30% of the Company’s current issued ordinary share 
capital (excluding treasury shares) and to issue equity securities of the Company for cash to persons other than existing 
shareholders, other than in connection with existing exemptions contained in the Company’s Articles of Association or in 
connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other similar issue, up to an aggregate nominal value of £500,000 representing 
approximately 5% of the current issued ordinary share capital of the Company. Similar authorities were given by the shareholders 
at the AGM in 2008 and the authorities now sought, if granted, will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the AGM of the 
Company next year and the date which is 15 months after the granting of the authorities.
As at 19 March 2009, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the significant interests in the 
voting rights of the Company’s issued ordinary shares as per notification received by the Company (at or above the 3% notification 
threshold) were as follows:
      Voting rights 
      attaching to % of total Nature 
      issued of total voting of 
      ordinary shares rights holding
Lamprell Holdings Limited       66,333,944  33.12 Direct
Standard Life Investments Ltd       18,712,534 9.34 Direct/Indirect
Ignis Investment Services Ltd       9,530,430 4.76 Indirect
Moore Credit Fund (Master) LP       7,900,000 3.95 Direct
Artemis Investment Management       7,595,000 3.79 Direct
Legal & General Group Plc       6,033,770 3.01 Direct
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by a resolution of the shareholders. 
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s third AGM as a listed public company will be held at the offices of the Lamprell Group in Jebel Ali Free Zone, 
Dubai, United Arab Emirates on Thursday 11 June 2009 at 12.00 noon (UAE time). The Notice of Meeting and an explanatory 
circular to shareholders setting out the AGM business accompanies this Annual Report. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
38
Directors’ Report (continued)
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces. A detailed 
analysis of the risks and uncertainties can be found on pages 28 to 29.
Payment policy
The Group’s policy in respect of its vendors is to agree and establish terms of payment when contracting for the goods or services 
and to abide by those payment terms. The Company is the holding company of the Group and has no trade creditors.
Charitable and political donations
During the year the Group made no political (2007: nil) or charitable donations (2007: nil). 
Auditors
As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware. In addition, 
each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
The auditors for the year ended 31 December 2008 were PricewaterhouseCoopers. They have expressed their willingness to 
continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to remain  
in operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the  
financial statements.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently. They also confirm that 
reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the year ended  
31 December 2008 and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Isle of 
Man Companies Acts 1931 to 2004. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis since the Directors have reasonable expectation that, 
firstly, the Company’s and the Group’s activities are sustainable and, secondly, that adequate resources are available to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website. Your attention is drawn to the fact that 
legislation in the Isle of Man governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from other jurisdictions 
and uncertainty regarding the legal requirements is compounded as information published on the internet is accessible in many 
countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Subsequent events
Subsequent events are as set out in Note 32 to the financial statements. 
By order of the Board
Ravindra Dabir
Company Secretary
27 March 2009 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
39
Corporate governance
Corporate Governance
The Company is incorporated in the Isle of Man, where there is no formal code covering corporate governance. However, the 
Board is strongly committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and, wherever possible, will apply the provisions  
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2006 (the “Code”) as if the Company was incorporated in the 
United Kingdom.
The Code seeks to ensure that the Company is run in a manner whereby the interests of shareholders are protected and as such 
the Code sets out principles of good corporate governance together with specific provisions. 
Statement of compliance with the provisions of good governance
The Directors consider that throughout 2008 and up to the date hereof, the Company has applied the principles and complied 
with the provisions of the Code, subject to exceptions identified in this report.
The Board
The Board plans to meet at least six times in a year. The role of the Board is to provide leadership of the Company, set values and 
standards, and to ensure that the Company’s obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are met. The Board has a 
formal schedule of matters reserved to itself for decision, including but not limited to, matters of a strategic nature, approval of the 
annual budget, approval of major acquisitions, investments and disposals, major changes to the Group’s capital structure, the 
preparation of financial statements, the recommendation or declaration of dividends, the entry into contracts which are deemed  
to be material strategically or by reason of size, succession planning and appointments to the Board, executive remuneration, 
ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal controls, reviewing its own and its Committees’ performance, and 
reviewing the Company’s overall corporate governance arrangements.
The current membership of the Board and the commitments of the Directors are stated on page 35, which record the names of 
the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the CEO. The names of the chairmen and members of each of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees are detailed below under the respective committee summaries. 
The Board met 11 times during the year and of these meetings four were conducted by telephone via a conference call. These 
meetings were required to deal with specific business matters which arose as part of the normal business of the Group and which 
needed to be addressed between scheduled Board meetings. In addition to the formal meetings of the Board, the Executive 
Directors maintain frequent verbal and written contact with the Non-Executive Directors to discuss various issues affecting the 
Company and its business. In addition, the Board executes a number of resolutions in writing to conduct Company business. The 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have met without the executives present when necessary. The agenda and appropriate 
supporting Board papers are distributed by the Secretary to the Board on a timely basis.
Attendance by the Directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees are summarised in the table below:
      Audit   Remuneration Nomination  
Meeting description     Board Committee Committee Committee
Total number of meetings      11 4 4 6
Jonathan Silver
 1
 Chairman of the Company     9 n/a n/a  n/a
Colin Goodall
 2
 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director    4 2 1 2
Richard Raynaut Non Executive Director     8 4  4 6 
Peter Whitbread
 3
 CEO     10 n/a n/a  n/a
Nigel McCue
 4
 COO     9  2  3 4
Scott Doak CFO     10 n/a n/a n/a
Peter Birch
 5
 Non-Executive Director     7 4  4 4
David Moran
 6
 DCC     7 n/a n/a n/a
 
1 Jonathan Silver was appointed as the Chairman of the Company on 27 March 2009.
2 Colin Goodall was appointed as the Senior Independent Director on 14 September 2008.
3 Peter Whitbread resigned as the Chairman of the Company on 5 February 2008 and will be appointed to the position of the Director of International Development with effect 
from 1 May 2009 on his resignation as CEO.
4 Nigel McCue was appointed to the position of the COO on 16 May 2008 and will be appointed to the position of the CEO with effect from 1 May 2009. 
5 Peter Birch resigned as a Director on 19 December 2008.
6 David Moran resigned as a Director on 2 November 2008.
The Group maintains Directors’ and Officers’ Liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
40
Corporate Governance (continued)
Chairman and Chief Executive
Section 1 A.2.2 of the Code states that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual 
and responsibilities between these roles should be clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board. The Chairman 
should meet the independence criteria set out in Section 1 A.3.1 of the Code.
Since 5 February 2008 the roles of Chairman and CEO have been split. Peter Whitbread is CEO and Jonathan Silver is Lamprell’s 
Non-Executive Chairman. Prior to Jonathan’s appointment on 27 March 2009, Peter Birch acted as Non-Executive Chairman, until 
he resigned for personal reasons in December 2008. 
Jonathan Silver was first appointed as Non-Executive Director based on the nomination received from the major shareholder 
Lamprell Holdings Limited and he is employed by a firm that represents the Company as one of its legal advisers. Jonathan Silver 
was therefore not deemed independent.
On the Company’s admission to the Official List of the LSE, Jonathan Silver, having been appointed at the request of Lamprell 
Holdings Limited, the Company’s principal shareholder, was removed as a Director in accordance with the provisions in the 
Articles of Association of the Company. However, the Board, considering his detailed knowledge of the Company and the Middle 
East, immediately re-appointed Jonathan as a Non-Executive Director. The Board and the Nomination Committee, considering his 
performance, experience and his knowledge of Lamprell plc, believe that, despite his lack of independence on appointment, 
Jonathan Silver’s appointment as the Chairman of the Company is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders. 
Board balance and independence
The Board currently has seven Directors, consisting of four Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors. The Board 
considers all the Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, Jonathan Silver, to be independent in accordance with the 
definition of the Code and their appointment to be in the best interests of the shareholders. To that end, half of the Board excluding 
the Chairman (as cited above), is comprised of Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent. However, due 
to changes in Board composition, during certain periods in the year the Company was not in compliance with the requirements of 
Section 1 A.3.2 of the Code. This requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive 
Directors determined by the Board to be independent or in the case of a smaller company, the Board should include at least two 
independent Non-Executive Directors. The Directors believe that the extensive knowledge and experience of the Non-Executive 
Directors combined with the focus and experience of the Executive Directors, enable the Board to lead and give direction to the 
Group without any imbalance that may allow any individual or group of individuals to dominate its decision making. Any Director 
having a concern in this or any other regard may raise this with the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director. 
Colin Goodall has been appointed as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and is available to shareholders if they have 
any concerns for which contact through the normal channels of Chairman and CEO or CFO cannot be resolved or for which such 
contact is inappropriate.
The Board considers that independence is a matter of judgement and therefore it believes that the Non-Executive Directors should 
be free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere in the exercise of their independent judgement. It is 
the Board’s policy to provide its Non-Executive Directors fair remuneration for the contribution they make with respect to the 
business and affairs of the Company and the responsibilities they undertake in performing their duties as Non-Executive Directors.
Appointments to the Board
All appointments to the Board are based on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee. The composition and working of 
the Nomination Committee are explained under “Principal Board Committees” on page 42. The terms and conditions of 
appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal 
business hours and will be available at the AGM 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
Induction and professional development 
A formal induction programme is provided to new Directors on their appointment. The programme is designed to cover 
Companies Act requirements, dealing restrictions as outlined in the Disclosure Rules and the Model Code on Directors’ dealings in 
securities contained in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, Board and business related 
matters, meetings with senior management, site visits and the opportunity to meet with major shareholders. Major shareholders 
have had discussions with Colin Goodall. Brian Fredrick, Lamprell’s other newly appointed Non-Executive Director will be available 
at the AGM to meet with major shareholders. 
The Directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, at the Company’s expense, if required. Directors have access to the 
advice and services of the Secretary to the Board, who is responsible for ensuring that the Board procedures and applicable rules and 
regulations are observed, and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters. The agenda for each Board and  Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
41
Corporate governance
Committee meeting is considered by the relevant Chairman and papers for each scheduled formal Board and Committee meeting are 
provided beforehand. In addition, the Chairman maintains regular contact with the Executive Directors to discuss specific issues.
Directors are free to meet individual members of the senior management team and have done so during the year under review. 
The Board and its Committees receive briefings on legislative and regulatory developments and new accounting requirements as 
appropriate and believe that, given the experience and skills of its Directors, the identification of general training needs is best left 
to individual discretion.
No Director took independent professional advice during the year.
Performance evaluation
A performance evaluation of the Board, its members and Committees was conducted through a questionnaire led interview with 
other members of the Board. The questionnaires included a review of the Directors’ attendance at Board meetings, the Board 
agenda, those areas on which the Board should focus during its meetings, the respective roles of the Executive and Non-
Executive Directors, Board procedures and administration, and the operation of the Board’s Nomination, Audit and Remuneration 
Committees. The results were considered satisfactory by the Board.
An evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was not carried out as Jonathan Silver was appointed to the position on 
27 March 2009 following Peter Birch’s resignation for personal reasons. 
The performance evaluation of the Board, its members and its Committees will continue on an annual basis.
Retirement and re-election
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to election at the first AGM after their 
appointment and one-third, or the number nearest to one-third of the Board, shall retire from office at every AGM. Any Director in 
office for more than three years at the start of an AGM shall also retire. Accordingly, Colin Goodall, Jonathan Silver and Brian 
Fredrick who were appointed to the Board after the last AGM of the Company will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 
forthcoming AGM. Scott Doak and Nigel McCue being the longest serving Directors, and making up the number nearest to 
one-third of the Board, will also retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM. The biographical details of the 
Directors proposed for re-election can be found on page 35. The Chairman confirms that following formal performance evaluation, 
the performance of the Directors proposed for re-election continues to be effective and such Directors demonstrate commitment 
to their roles. The Board supports the re-election of all the retiring Directors.
Directors’ remuneration
The principles and details of Directors’ remuneration are contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 53.  
The composition and working of the Remuneration Committee are explained under “Principal Board Committees” on page 42. 
Principal Board Committees
The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. A summary of the activities of each committee is set 
out below. The Committees are constituted with appropriate written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and are available 
on the Company’s website. The minutes of meetings and/or reports from the chairmen of the Committees are made available to the 
Board for its next scheduled meeting following the Committee meeting in question, or as soon as practicable thereafter.
Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are Richard Raynaut who acts as Chairman, Colin Goodall and Brian Fredrick. Others may be 
co-opted onto the Committee by the Committee members. The Board considers all the members of the Audit Committee who are 
Non-Executive Directors, to be independent in character and judgement and free from any relationship or circumstance which may, or 
could or would be likely to, or which appears to, affect their judgement. During the period from 15 May 2008 to 14 September 2008, at 
least two of the members of the Audit Committee were not independent Non-Executive Directors as is applicable to a smaller company 
under Section C.3.1 of the Code although this was corrected on the appointment of Colin Goodall. This requires that the Audit 
Committee should be made up of at least three, or in the case of smaller companies two, independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Meetings of the Audit Committee are held not less than three times a year. The CFO is invited to attend meetings, where appropriate, 
and the Company’s auditors are regularly invited to attend meetings, including once at the planning stage before the audit and once 
after the audit at the reporting stage. Other Board members may also be invited to attend, although at least once a year the Audit 
Committee meets the Company’s external auditors without management being present. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee 
include consideration of matters relating to the appointment of the Company’s auditors and the independence of the Company’s 
auditors, reviewing the integrity of the Company’s annual and interim reports, preliminary results announcements and any other formal 
announcement relating to its financial performance. The Audit Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s system of 
internal audit, internal control and compliance procedures. The Audit Committee has established and monitors the Group’s policy in  Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
42
Corporate Governance (continued)
relation to non-audit services provided by the external auditor, with a view to ensuring objectivity, independence and cost effectiveness. 
The Audit Committee also monitors the procedure to ensure that employees may raise ethical concerns in confidence.
The Audit Committee met (including meetings by conference call) four times during the year and the attendance at its meetings is 
reported on page 39.
Nomination Committee
The current members of the Nomination Committee are Colin Goodall, who acts as Chairman, Richard Raynaut and Brian Fredrick. 
During the period from 15 May 2008 to 24 September 2008, the majority of the members of the Nomination Committee were not 
independent Non-Executive Directors as required by Section 1 A.4.1 of the Code although this was corrected on the appointment of 
Colin Goodall. The Nomination Committee’s terms of reference are to periodically review the structure, size and composition, including 
the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared to its current position and make its recommendations to the 
Board with regard to any changes. The Nomination Committee also considers the future composition of the Board, taking into account 
the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and skills and expertise needed on the Board. The Nomination Committee also 
makes recommendations to the Board about the membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
During the year the Nomination Committee recommended the appointment of Colin Goodall and Brian Fredrick as Non-Executive 
Directors. The selection process involved interviews with a number of candidates who were shortlisted from a list of candidates 
who had been considered at the time of the Company’s IPO and from a list of candidates referred by the Directors and Company’s 
advisers. The Nomination Committee considered the candidate’s relevance to the Company’s business, experience and the 
candidate’s time commitment, as well as the skills required on the Board. 
 
While recommending the nomination for the position of the Chairman to replace Peter Birch, the Nomination Committee reviewed 
and accepted the job specification for the Chairman adopted by the Board in July 2008, assessed the time commitment expected 
for the position and the availability of the Chairman in the event of crisis. 
An external search for the Board appointments was not undertaken as the referrals and the information held by the Company for 
the positions of the Non-Executive Director and internal candidature for the position of the Chairman, satisfied the requirement.
The Nomination Committee met (including meetings by conference calls) six times during the year and the attendance at its 
meetings is reported on page 39.
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Richard Raynaut, who acts as Chairman, Colin Goodall and Brian Fredrick. 
During the period from 15 May 2008 to 24 September 2008, at least two of the members of the Remuneration Committee were 
not independent Non-Executive Directors as is applicable to a smaller company as per the requirement under Section 1 B.2.1 of 
the Code although this was corrected on the appointment of Colin Goodall. The terms of reference of the Remuneration 
Committee provide for it to determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the 
Company’s CEO, the COO and the CFO, any such other Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other such members of 
the executive management as it is designated to consider. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the 
Executive Directors. No Director or manager may be involved in any decisions as to his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee met (including meetings by conference call) four times during the year. The attendance at its 
meetings is reported on page 39.
Accountability and audit
The Board plays a direct role in the development of the Group’s internal controls and risk management systems in addition to 
overseeing controls and risk management procedures via the Audit Committee. However, the primary responsibility for developing 
and implementing internal control and risk management procedures covering strategic, commercial, operational and financial 
aspects of the business, lies with the management. 
Financial reporting
The statement on the responsibilities of the Directors in relation to the preparation of the accounts and the Directors’ evaluation of 
the business as a going concern is contained in the Directors’ Report on page 38.
Internal control
The control environment, risk management system and assurance processes being the three key elements leading to a robust 
system of internal control in the Group, are described below. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
43
Corporate governance
There exists a clear organisational structure for the control and monitoring of the Group’s businesses, including defined lines of responsibility 
and delegation of authority. The business follows policies and procedures which amongst other matters, include policies for the Company 
and its employees on health and safety, security, the environment, corporate social responsibility and areas of legal compliance.
The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. This has been  
in place for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual Report and is in accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.  
The Directors are aware that the Group’s risk management systems cannot completely eliminate risks and thus there can never be an 
absolute assurance against the Group failing to achieve its objectives or a material loss arising. In the Board’s regular review of the 
Group’s strategic plans, consideration is given to those risks which have been identified as potential impediments to achieving the 
Group’s strategic objectives. The Board receives regular formal updates from management on the key risks and the related controls  
in relation to the Group’s existing business and, if appropriate, on potential new business. Management thoroughly considers risks 
associated with undertaking new business.
The Directors receive assurances from the following internal and external controls:
Annual self assessment of agreed internal controls by process owners and review of such results by the internal auditors. −
Regular executive reports from management in areas covering key issues, performance, business outlook, human resources  −
and health, safety and environment.
Financial performance reports including analyses of significant variances regularly reported by the management.  −
External audit reports, presentations and management letters from the Group’s auditors. −
Reports from the Internal Audit function. −
Reports from internal Quality Audits. −
Reports from the Audit Committee. −
The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management systems. Where material weaknesses have been identified, safeguards are 
implemented and monitored.
Audit Committee and auditors
The composition and working of the Audit Committee are explained under “Principal Board committees” on page 41.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the performance of PricewaterhouseCoopers, the external auditors, who retire at the end of 
the AGM and recommends their reappointment. The Board concurs with the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
During the year, the external auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers, were also engaged to provide services in relation to the listing of 
the Company’s shares on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange. The Audit Committee, in accordance with the Policy 
on Auditor Independence and adopted by the Group, and having considered the nature of work to be carried out believes that, 
whilst being cost effective, the appointment of the external auditors to carry out the work for the Main Listing process did not 
affect the objectivity, or the independence, of the external auditors. 
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the CEO and the CFO have regular meetings with 
major shareholders and research analysts. The Board receives regular feedback from analysts and major shareholders, compiled by the 
Company’s brokers and financial public relations consultants, in particular, following presentations and meetings after the publication of 
financial results. The principal method of communicating with the majority of shareholders is via the Annual Report and Accounts and 
the Company’s website which contains details of financial presentations to analysts, press releases and other information about the 
Group. All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the AGM. All Directors were present at the 2008 AGM and all Directors intend to 
be present at the 2009 AGM to answer shareholders’ questions.
Constructive use of the AGM
The Board uses the AGM as an occasion to communicate with all shareholders, including private investors, who are provided with 
the opportunity to question the Directors. At the AGM the total number of proxy votes lodged on each resolution categorised as 
for, against, and votes withheld, will be made available both at the meeting and subsequently on the Company’s website. Each 
separate issue is presented as a separate resolution and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees 
will be available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Notice of the AGM, and related papers containing the text of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, and explanatory notes, 
where necessary, will be posted to the shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM. The interim and preliminary results 
of the Company, along with all other press releases, are posted on the Company’s website, www.lamprell.com, as soon as they 
are announced and are available for download. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
44
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Opening statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder, 
I am pleased to present to you the Remuneration Committee’s report on Directors’ remuneration for the year to 31 December 
2008. This past year has been a year of continued growth and success for the Company, despite the turmoil that has existed in 
the world’s financial markets. However, it has become apparent recently that there is a marked slowdown in the Company’s 
business except for the rig refurbishment business which is currently busy but is anticipated to slowdown in the second half of the 
year. As a result, and as announced on 20 March 2009, we expect the outturn for 2009 to be significantly below that of 2008.
The current economic crisis has emphasised the important role that remuneration committees have to play in designing 
appropriate remuneration packages to recruit, retain and motivate executive talent, whilst providing an appropriate balance 
between risk and remuneration. In determining the remuneration policy of the Company, the Remuneration Committee has had 
regard to the general market conditions and developing best practices, as well as to the challenges and opportunities facing the 
Company going forward.
The Remuneration Committee seeks to provide packages for the Executive Directors that are appropriate to the needs of Lamprell 
and that are competitive. In doing this, the Remuneration Committee has established a number of key principles which are set out 
on page 46. These remuneration principles provided the foundation for the arrangements in place this year, and also provided the 
basis on which we will base remuneration going forward.
The results of benchmarking exercises in 2007 and 2008 have indicated that whilst the total remuneration of the Executive 
Directors was not materially lower than that of the comparator group, the mix between base salary and bonus was significantly 
different. During 2009, the Remuneration Committee intends to undertake a review of the the remuneration policy of the Company 
to ensure that remuneration continues to be aligned with the strategy of the Company and with evolving investor guidelines. The 
results of this review will be outlined in next year’s Remuneration Report.
Amendments to the base salaries of Nigel McCue and Scott Doak have been made and reflect changes in their roles or 
responsibilities as Nigel McCue will assume the role of CEO from 1 May 2009, and Scott Doak, CFO, has assumed all 
responsibilities previously undertaken by the DCC who left the Company on 1 January 2009. It is noted that considerable savings, 
net of approved increments, will be achieved from the departure of the DCC and also from the change in the remuneration of the 
current CEO, who will retain the position of Director of International Development. 
The details of the changes have been outlined in this report. 
The Committee have also made share awards to Nigel McCue and Scott Doak and consider these awards essential to ensure that 
these Directors have a sufficient stake in the Company to align their interests more with those of shareholders. Both are relatively 
new to the Company and, as a result of circumstances, have not yet built up a stake in the Company commensurate to their 
positions as Directors of a UK listed plc. As noted below, the Performance Share Plan will only reward Senior Executives from the 
year ending 31 December 2011. These awards have been made under the Executive Share Option Scheme, but regular awards 
will no longer be made under this scheme. 
Following our listing on the London Stock Exchange, a separate resolution to approve this report will be put to the AGM,  
and I hope for your support for this resolution.
Richard Raynaut
Remuneration Committee Chairman
27 March 2009 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
45
Corporate governance
Introduction
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act, relevant provisions of the Listing Rules and the Combined Code.
The regulations require the auditors to report to the Company’s shareholders on the “auditable part” of the Remuneration Report 
and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act. 
This report has therefore been divided into two parts setting out the audited and non-audited information respectively.
A separate resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. 
Information not subject to audit
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) provide for it to determine, and agree with the Board, 
the policy for the remuneration of Lamprell’s Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and such other members of the 
executive management as it is designated to consider. The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the 
Company’s website – www.lamprell.com.
During the year there were several changes to the composition of the Committee. Peter Birch resigned as Chairman of the 
Committee on 24 September 2008 and was replaced by Richard Raynaut with immediate effect. Colin Goodall and Brian Fredrick 
were appointed as Non-Executive Directors of the Company on 14 September 2008 and were appointed to the Committee with 
effect from 24 September 2008 and 1 January 2009 respectively. Nigel McCue resigned from the Committee on 24 September 
2008 having been a member during 2008. The Board deems all of the current members of the Committee to be independent 
Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Committee met four times during 2008 with all members of the Committee at the date of each meeting in attendance.
Advisers to the Committee
The Committee has appointed Deloitte LLP (“Deloitte”) as its independent advisers in relation to remuneration matters and share 
incentive arrangements. Deloitte provided no other services to the Company during 2008. 
The Committee consults with the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive as appropriate, and both may be asked to 
attend meetings by request. By request, the Committee is also supported by the Company Secretary and other employees, 
although no individual is involved in discussions around their own remuneration.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy of the Company has been designed with the aim of enabling the recruitment, motivation and retention of 
Executive Directors and senior managers of the highest calibre. The remuneration structure should support the needs of the 
business in a competitive marketplace. UK shareholder guidelines will be followed to the highest possible extent consistent with 
the needs of the business.
The reward policy determined by the Committee aims to drive business performance and maximise shareholder value through the 
use of a mixture of fixed and variable pay. It is based on the following key principles:
remuneration is viewed from a total compensation perspective, taking account of all elements of reward; −
the total compensation opportunity should be market competitive to enable the recruitment and retention of the required talent  −
and experience;
a high proportion of the total compensation opportunity should be variable and therefore ‘at risk’ for the Executive Directors; and −
the reward policy should support the creation of shareholder value. −
Total remuneration is benchmarked against comparators of a similar size and complexity. As a secondary reference point, the 
Committee also has reference to the remuneration framework of the following UK-listed oil equipment and services sector companies:
Amec  −
John Wood Group  −
Petrofac  −
Wellstream Holdings −
Hunting −
  Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
46
On-target performance
1
2
Exceptional performance
1
2
1 Fixed
2 Variable
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
There are three main elements of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors:
basic annual salary and benefits, including a pension equivalent; −
annual cash bonus payments; and −
share-based long-term incentives. −
The table below summarises these elements and their key features:
  Positioning against 
Component Quantum market Purpose Delivery Other key features 
Base salary Varies by role  Below median Provides the fixed Monthly cash Reviewed annually 
 and individual  element of the payment 
   package  
Annual  Individual maxima,  Upper quartile To drive and reward Annual cash Based on annual 
performance with Executive Directors’   annual performance payment performance against 
bonus plan capped at 200% of   of individuals, teams  pre-determined 
 base salary  and the Company  objectives
Pension  c. 8% of base salary n/a – see below To provide a Cash payment This is based on 
equivalent   retirement benefit following  local UAE Labour 
    retirement, Law and is 
    based on length  consistently applied 
    of service and across all employees  
    final salary of the Company
Performance  Normally, up to 100% Competitive To motivate senior Shares following Effectively replaced 
Share Plan of salary  management and  a three-year Executive Share 
   align interests with  vesting period Option Plan awards 
   shareholders  for Executive  
     Directors
Each element is described in further detail in separate sections below. The charts below illustrate the relative proportions of pay at 
risk (variable) and not at risk (fixed) at different levels of performance based on a projected value methodology.
Elements of Remuneration
Base salary
Policy: below median base salary to facilitate high variable component
The Company has historically positioned the base salaries of the Executive Directors below the median for the competitive market, 
with a substantial proportion of their remuneration therefore being performance-related. 
Actual base salary levels are reviewed annually and are influenced by the Executive Director’s experience, responsibility and 
market value. Any changes usually take effect from the start of the year. During 2008, the Committee gave careful consideration to 
the level of base salaries and concluded that the base salaries would be reviewed after the results of the annual benchmarking 
exercise had been reviewed, particularly in context of the wider financial market and economic turmoil experienced in the fourth 
quarter of 2008. At a meeting of the Committee in March 2009 it was agreed that certain changes were necessary, largely to 
recognise the following:
the results of the benchmarking exercises undertaken by Deloitte in 2007 and 2008 which indicated anomalies between the  −
base salaries and bonus amounts paid by the Company, and that of its comparator group, with base salaries significantly lower 
and variable pay significantly higher than the comparator group. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
47
Corporate governance
the variable pay component of the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors was significantly higher than the  −
comparator group at 200% of base salary for on target performance. In line with the increased base the bonus maximum has 
been reduced to 175%. 
changes to the roles and responsibilities of both the current COO and CFO. Nigel McCue, COO, will assume the role of CEO  −
from 1 May 2009, and Scott Doak, CFO, has assumed all responsibilities previously undertaken by the Director of Corporate 
Communications who left the Company on 1 January 2009.
 
The table below shows the base salaries of each current Executive Director effective as at 1 January 2008, and those that will 
apply from 1 April 2009:
       Base salary  Base salary 
       from 1.1.2008 from 1.4.2009  
Name Position      USD USD % increase
Peter Whitbread Chief Executive Officer      360,000 378,000 5.0%
Nigel McCue Chief Operating Officer      300,000 415,500 38.5%
Scott Doak Chief Financial Officer      261,545 354,393 35.5%
The benchmarking reports for the last two years have identified that the base salaries of the Executive Directors are approximately 
55% of the comparator group median, while bonus opportunities are approximately double that of the comparator group. During 
2009, the Remuneration Committee intends to undertake a review of the remuneration policy of the Company to ensure that 
remuneration continues to be aligned with the strategy of the Company and with evolving investor guidelines.
Annual bonus
Policy: high maximum bonus to provide competitive total cash opportunity
The Executive Directors and senior management receive annual bonus payments based on the achievement of net profit targets 
and individual objectives, which are reviewed by the Committee at the start of the financial year. The Committee has an overriding 
discretion to consider, if deemed necessary, performance on environmental, social and governance issues when determining the 
annual bonus payments for the Executive Directors.
The Committee took into account the Executive Directors’ success in achieving the set financial objectives, as well as each 
individual’s performance, when determining the bonus awards for 2008. In particular, the Committee considered the Company’s 
record financial performance for the year, overachievement of financial targets versus budget and achievement of specific targets, 
including moving the Company’s listing to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange during the year. In addition, completing 
the incorporation of the new facility in Thailand with an eight-year tax holiday was noted as an achievement for 2008. The 
Committee determined that the bonus payments for the Executive Directors for the financial year 2008 would be as follows:
           
        Annual bonus paid % of 
Name Position       USD base salary
Peter Whitbread Chief Executive Officer       720,000 200%
Nigel McCue Chief Operating Officer       600,000 200%
Scott Doak Chief Financial Officer       523,090 200%
David Moran
 a
 Chief Financial Officer       270,000  75%
a) David Moran acted as the COO until 15 May 2008 and thereafter as DCC until 2 November 2008 when he resigned from the Board of Lamprell plc. 
The Committee keeps the remuneration arrangements under review and has determined it appropriate that the key principles of 
the annual bonus plan for financial year 2009 should be as follows:
the annual bonus opportunity will be capped at a maximum of 175% of base salary for the Executive Directors; and −
payout of 60% of the bonus will be based on financial targets, with the remaining 40% dependent on the achievement of  −
personal objectives. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
48
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
Long-term incentives
Policy: competitive rewards to recruit, retain and motivate individuals of a top calibre
At the last Annual General Meeting a new PSP was approved and this is now the Company’s main long-term incentive vehicle for 
Executive Directors and senior management. The main features of the PSP are as follows:
Awards over Lamprell shares can be made, on an annual basis, to Executive Directors and other key individuals. −
Awards will take the form of a promise to deliver free shares, but may be structured in an economically equivalent form subject  −
to an assessment of local tax and regulatory issues.
Awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant of the award, subject to any applicable performance  −
conditions having been satisfied.
In respect of any one financial year, share awards will typically be limited to a maximum of 100% of base salary for any  −
participant. However, in exceptional circumstance (e.g. for recruitment or retention purposes) awards up to a maximum of 150% 
of base salary can be made.
Awards may be satisfied by the issue of new shares or the transfer of shares purchased in the market and held either in an  −
employee benefit trust or as treasury shares (or through a cash payment). Where shares are issued, the Association of British 
Insurers’ guidelines on dilution will be followed.
The Committee believes the PSP performance conditions should strike a balance between achieving alignment with shareholder 
returns and reward for delivery of strong underlying performance, the latter point being more in the control of senior management. 
During 2008, no awards were made under the PSP, however, it is anticipated that the first awards will be made during 2009. 
These awards will be subject to achieving EPS growth relative to predefined targets, as the Committee considers EPS to be one of 
the key measures of the Company’s success. The intended EPS targets and their associated vesting levels are as follows (straight-
line vesting applies between the hurdles):
EPS growth over three-year period       Percentage of award vesting
Less than 15%       0%
15%       25%
45% or more       100%
The Committee regularly reviews both the overall suitability of the Company’s share-based remuneration, the level of awards made 
under the plans operated, and the performance conditions attached to those awards. 
 
Any value earned under the Company’s long-term incentive plans is not pensionable.
As part of the initial public offering in 2006, the Company implemented an Executive Share Option Plan. Under this plan, share 
options with a face value of up to 200% of base salary could be granted annually to the Executive Directors, which would vest on 
the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the achievement of performance conditions. This share option plan has 
effectively been replaced by the PSP, but has been retained for exceptional awards, as discussed below. 
Pension
Policy: in line with local market practice
Under employment law in the United Arab Emirates, the Executive Directors participate in a terminal gratuity scheme operated by 
the Company as a pension equivalent. This is operated as a cash payment based on the length of service and final salary of the 
Executive Director and the value of these cash provisions is c. 8% of base salary.
Under the terms of the local UAE labour law the terminal gratuity accrues benefit to an employee as follows:
21 days per annum for the first five years of employment −
30 days per annum for the remainder of their employment. −
The benefit accrues for incomplete years on a pro rata basis, is calculated using the current base salary and has a maximum 
benefit amounting to two years of the annual base salary. 
Other remuneration elements
The Executive Directors also receive other benefits including car allowances, housing allowances, utilities for housing, school fees 
for children up to the age of 18 years old, annual airline tickets, medical and life insurance, petrol costs and club memberships. 
The cash value of the benefits received by each Executive Director in 2008 is shown in the table on page 51. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
49
Corporate governance
Directors’ contracts
The policy set out below provides the framework for contracts for the Executive Directors. It is the Company’s policy that 
Executive Directors should have contracts with a rolling term providing for a maximum of one year’s notice. Consequently,  
no Executive Director has a contractual notice period in excess of twelve months.
Aspect of contract Policy
Notice period on termination by the Company or the  Twelve calendar months 
Executive Director 
Termination payment One times annual basic salary, plus benefits but excluding bonus
Vesting of long-term incentive scheme awards  In line with the rules of the relevant equity incentive scheme – generally 
pro-rated for time and performance for good leavers
Pension  Based on existing arrangements and terms of the UAE Labour Law with 
respect to terminal gratuity
The general policy on termination is that the Company does not make payments beyond its contractual obligations, i.e. no 
ex-gratia payments are made. 
The Committee will seek to ensure that there have been no unjustified payments for failure, and as such none of the Executive 
Directors’ contracts provides for liquidated damages, longer periods of notice on a change of control of the Company, or 
additional compensation on an Executive Director’s cessation of employment. 
The table below sets out the details of the Executive Directors’ service contracts:
Director     Date of contract Effective date
Peter Whitbread     11 September 2006 11 September 2006
Nigel McCue     16 May 2008 16 May 2008
Scott Doak     10 December 2006 1 March 2007
Outside appointments for Executive Directors
Any outside appointments must be approved by the Board. It is the Company’s policy that remuneration earned from such 
appointments may be kept by the individual Executive Director. The external appointments of the Directors are noted below.
During 2008 Peter Whitbread received CAD 23,000, Nigel McCue received CAD 16,275 and USD 147,000; and Scott Doak 
received £15,375 in respect of these appointments.
Director     Current Directorships
Peter Whitbread     Granjan Holdings
     Jura Energy Corporation
     Mavignon Shipping Limited
     Nemmoco Petroleum Limited
Nigel McCue     Dragon (Holdings) Limited
     Dragon Oil Limited
     Dragon Oil (Turkmenistan) Limited
     Frontier Holdings Limited
     Frontier Acquisition Company Limited
     Jura Energy Corporation
     Mavignon Shipping Limited
     Nemmoco Petroleum Limited
Scott Doak     Caledonian Investments (Dubai) Limited
     Caledonian Developments (Dubai) Limited
     Caledonian Management (Dubai) Limited
     Caledonian Investments (Gulf) Limited Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
31/12/206 11/10/2006 31/12/2007 31/12/2008
Total Shareholder Return (rebased to 100) 
Lamprell FTSE SC Ex. Inv. Trusts 
Lamprell – TSR since AIM listing 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
Non-Executive Directors’ fees and contracts
The Company aims to provide Non-Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with other companies of a similar size and 
complexity. The Company reviewed the Non-Executive fee structure during 2008 and determined to operate a fee structure with 
basic fees and additional fees for chairing a committee of the Board. The basic fee was set at £37,750 per annum, with an 
additional fee of £7,000 being payable for chairing a committee. Colin Goodall, as Senior Independent Director, receives no 
additional fee for chairing the Nominations Committee. 
The following table sets out the fees payable for the Non-Executive Directors during the financial year 2008:
Non-Executive Director         2008
Colin Goodall Senior Independent Director
  Chairman of the Nominations Committee      £75,000
Richard Raynaut  Non-Executive Director
  Chairman of the Audit Committee
  Chairman of the Remuneration Committee      £46,000
Jonathan Silver  Non-Executive Director        £36,000
Brian Fredrick
 b
 Non-Executive Director        –
Peter Birch
 a
 Non-Executive Chairman       £100,000
a) Peter Birch resigned from the Company with effect from 19 December 2008.
b) Brian Fredrick was appointed to the Board on 14 September 2008 with a start date of 1 January 2009. 
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Company’s incentive schemes.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts, but instead have specific letters of appointment which are available 
upon request. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, terminable by either the Company or the 
Non-Executive Director at will. In normal circumstances, and subject to performance and re-election at the AGM, the Non-
Executive Directors can be asked to serve additional three-year terms. Upon termination or resignation, Non-Executive Directors 
are not entitled to compensation and no fee is payable in respect of the unexpired portion of the term of appointment.
The following table shows the date of the letter of appointment for each Non-Executive Director:
Non-Executive Director      Date of letter of appointment
Colin Goodall      14 September 2008
Richard Raynaut      7 July 2006
Jonathan Silver      24 August 2007
Brian Fredrick      14 September 2008
TSR performance graph
The following graph sets out the performance of the Company relative to the FTSE SmallCap Index of which the Company is a 
constituent, from the date the Company originally listed on AIM (10 October 2006) to 31 December 2008. The graphs has been 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act and is not an indication of the likely vesting of awards granted under any of the 
Company’s incentive plans. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
51
Corporate governance
Audited Information
Annual remuneration
The table below summarises all Directors’ emoluments for the current and prior year for comparison. No payments for loss of 
office were made during the year and no other awards were made to any director during the year to 31 December 2008.
     Allowance and 
    Fees and salary other benefits Annual Bonus Total 2008 Total 2007 
    USD USD USD USD USD
Executive Directors
Peter Whitbread
 a
    360,000 139,646 2,720,000 3,219,646 1, 127,81 7
Nigel McCue
 b
    186,365 107,476 600,003 893,844  –
Scott Doak     261,545 153,117 523,089 937,751 926,863
David Moran
 c
    360,000 284,382 270,000 914,382 1,232,253
Total    1,167,910 684,621 4,113,092 5,965,623 3,286,933
Non-Executive Directors
Colin Goodall    20,373  –  – 20,373  –
Richard Raynaut    82,936  –  – 82,936 60,369
Jonathan Silver    67,602  –  – 67,602 22,585
Nigel McCue    30,426  –  – 30,426 59,790
Peter Birch
 c
    174,588  –  – 174,588 152,864
Total    375,925  –  – 375,925 295,608
a) Peter Whitbread’s bonus includes an amount of USD 2 million in respect of an agreed payment to remain as the Chief Executive Officer during 2008. The intention had been 
for Peter Whitbread to step down from this role in April 2008 in favour of David Moran.
b) Nigel McCue was appointed Chief Operating Officer with effect from 16 May 2008 and previously acted as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
c) David Moran and Peter Birch resigned from the Board on 2 November 2008 and 19 December 2008 respectively.
Pension equivalents
The table below summarises the Executive Directors’ pension equivalent contributions for the current year, and the prior year for 
comparison.
       Total 2008 Total 2007 
       USD USD
Executive Directors
Peter Whitbread       99,659 24,654
Nigel McCue       9,967  –
Scott Doak       17,601 9,696
David Moran       141,106 (19,283)
Total       268,333 15,067
In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligations 
at 31 December 2008 and 2007, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees’ end of service benefits payable 
under the UAE Labour Law. Under this method, an assessment has been made of an employee’s expected service life with the 
Group and the expected basic salary at the date of leaving the service. Management has assumed average increment/promotion 
costs of 4% to 5% (2007: 4% to 5%). The expected liability at the date of leaving the service has been discounted to its net present 
value using a discount rate of 6% (2007: 6.25%).  Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
52
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
Directors’ interests
The following interests of the Directors of the Company are shown in accordance with the Listing Rules:
      At At At 
      27 March 31 December 1 January 
       2009  2008 2008
Executive Directors   
Peter Whitbread      1,580,000 1,580,000 2,800,000
Nigel McCue      38,461 38,461 38,461
Scott Doak      8,000 8,000 8,000
Non-Executive Directors
Colin Goodall      6,000 6,000  –
 a
Richard Raynaut       – –  –
Jonathan Silver       –  –  –
Brian Fredrick       –  –  –
 a
a) Shown as at date of appointment.
The table above does not include unvested interests held under the Company’s equity-based incentive schemes. These interests 
are set out separately below.
Awards made prior to the initial public offering
Lamprell Holdings Limited Share Option Plan
Prior to the Company’s listing on the Alternative Investment Market, a one-off grant of options was made to selected key 
employees of the Company, including the Executive Directors. These awards, in aggregate, accounted for approximately 5% of the 
Company’s share capital, and will be satisfied with shares currently beneficially held by Steven Lamprell. The awards to the 
Executive Directors vested immediately on Admission, however, carried restrictions on how the shares could disposed over the 
first two years following Admission. The table below sets out the interests of the Executive Directors in share options under the 
Lamprell Holdings Limited Share Option Plan, all of which were granted on 10 October 2006. No further options will be granted 
under the Lamprell Holdings Limited Share Option Plan.
    Exercise Sold Lapsed 
Executive Director  At 1.1.2008 Exercise period price in year in year At 31.12.2008
Peter Whitbread  2,800,000 10.10.2008–10.10.2010 nil 1,250,000 nil 1,550,000
David Moran  1,625,441 10.10.2008–10.10.2010 nil 812,720 nil 812,721
On 31 March 2008, Peter Whitbread and David Moran exercised their right to sell 1,250,000 shares and 812,720 shares. The share 
price on that date was 400 pence per share. 
Share award to David Moran
At the time of admission to the Alternative Investment Market, David Moran was granted a deferred share award giving him an 
entitlement to receive shares at no cost, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions. 
This award vests in three equal tranches on the date of the announcement of the financial results for the years ending 
31 December 2007, 2008 and 2009 respectively. The following table sets out the interests of David Moran in relation to this award 
granted on 16 October 2006:
  Share price 
Executive Director At 1.1.2008 at grant Date of vesting Vested At 31.12.2008
David Moran 276,230 £1.95 Announcement of financial results for 2007 276,230  – 
 276,230 £1.95 Announcement of financial results for 2008  – 276,230
 a 
 276,229 £1.95 Announcement of financial results for 2009  –  276,229
 a
a) In accordance with the terms of the share award, the Committee permitted the unvested tranches to vest in full following the cessation of David Moran’s employment and 
these vested on 1 January 2009. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
53
Corporate governance
The actual number of shares transferred to David Moran amounted to 279,309 shares having been adjusted to reflect any 
dividends paid during the vesting period.
On 31 March 2008, David Moran sold 1,090,000 shares comprising shares exercised under the Lamprell Holdings Limited Share 
Option Plan and shares vested under this award. The share price on that date was 400 pence per share. 
Share awards to Scott Doak and Nigel McCue
As disclosed in the admission document for the listing on the London Stock Exchange, on 10 January 2008 and 20 May 2008 
respectively, Scott Doak and Nigel McCue were granted conditional rights to receive shares at no cost. The earliest date that they 
will be entitled to receive the shares under the conditional rights are 10 January 2010 and 20 May 2011 respectively. Receipt of the 
shares is conditional upon them remaining in employment with the Company until that date. 
The following table sets out the interests of Scott Doak and Nigel McCue in relation to their awards:
     Share price 
Executive Director   At 1.1.2008 Granted in year at grant Date of vesting Vested At 31.12.2008
Scott Doak   nil 22,725 £4.36 10.01.2010 nil  22,275
Nigel McCue   nil 70,000 £5.25 20.05.2011 nil 70,000
On vesting an amount will also be paid equal to the aggregate amount of dividends that would have been paid on the shares to 
which they are entitled between the grant date and vesting date.
Share option awards to Scott Doak and Nigel McCue
On 31 March 2009 Scott Doak and Nigel McCue were granted options under the Executive Share Option Plan. The earliest date 
that they will be entitled to receive the shares under the conditional rights are 31 March 2012. Receipt of the shares is conditional 
upon them remaining in employment with the Company until that date. 
The following table sets out the interests of Scott Doak and Nigel McCue in relation to their awards:
     Granted Exercise price 
Executive Director    At 31.12.2008 on 31.03.09 at grant Date of vesting Vested
Scott Doak    nil 275,000 £0.5725 31.03.2012 nil 
Nigel McCue    nil 275,000 £0.5725 31.03.2012 nil
On vesting, the Options become exercisable and, subject to the rules of the Plan, will remain exercisable until 31 March 2019 
(being the 10th anniversary of the grant date) and, to the extent not exercised by that date, will lapse. 
Share price information
On 31 December 2008, the closing price of a Lamprell plc ordinary share was 117.5p. The highest and lowest price of an ordinary 
share during 2008 was 575p and 73.25p respectively, based on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Approval
This report was approved by the Committee, on behalf of the Board, on the date shown below and signed on the Board’s behalf by:
Richard Raynaut
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
27 March 2009 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
54 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
54
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Lamprell plc
Report on the financial statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated and parent 
company financial statements of Lamprell plc which comprise 
the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as of 
31 December 2008 and the consolidated income statement, 
consolidated and parent company statements of changes in 
equity and consolidated and parent company cash flow 
statements for the year then ended and a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
Directors’ responsibility for the financial statements
The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair 
presentation of these financial statements in accordance with 
applicable Isle of Man law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing 
and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and 
fair presentation of financial statements that are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting 
and applying appropriate accounting policies; and making 
accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial 
statements based on our audit. This report, including the 
opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s 
members as a body in accordance with Section 15 of the Isle 
of Man Companies Act 1982 and for no other purpose. We do 
not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report 
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. We conducted 
our audit in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing. Those Standards require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement. 
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor 
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation 
and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to 
design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An 
audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of 
accounting policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as 
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
 
Auditor’s responsibility
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects 
the Company’s and Group’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the Combined Code (2006) specified for our 
review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, 
and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider 
whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all 
risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of 
the Company’s or Group’s Corporate Governance procedures 
or its risk and control procedures. We also review whether the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report includes the six disclosures 
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority and we report if it does not.
Opinion
In our opinion:
the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a  −
true and fair view of the financial position of the Group as of 
31 December 2008, and of its financial performance and its 
cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the European Union;
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair  −
view of the financial position of the parent company as of 
31 December 2008, and of its cash flows for the year then 
ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies 
Acts 1931-2004; 
except in respect of non accrual of the proposed dividends  −
as disclosed at Note 32, the financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Isle of Man 
Companies Acts 1931-2004.
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Douglas, Isle of Man
27 March 2009 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
55
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
 Year ended 31 December
      2008  2007 
    Note  USD’000  USD’000
Revenue      740,831  467,332
Cost of sales    5  (611,528)  (359,532)
Gross profit      129,303  107,800
Selling and distribution expenses    6  (1,874)  (1,395)
General and administrative expenses:
– share based payments    7  (8,059)  (14,942)
– others    8  (38,539)  (25,517)
      (46,598)  (40,459)
 
Other gains/(losses) – net    11  1,631  1,355
Operating profit      82,462  67,301
Interest income      2,993  4,249
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company    85,455  71,550
   
Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the Company  12
Basic      42.73c  35.78c
Diluted      42.59c  35.72c Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
56
Consolidated balance sheet
 As at 31 December
      2008  2007 
    Note  USD’000  USD’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment    15  92,354  47,766
Intangible asset    16  1,400  1,490
      93,754  49,256
Current assets
Inventories    18  20,506  6,705
Trade and other receivables    19  289,812  149,950
Derivative financial instruments    14  50  964
Cash and bank balances    21  97,824  159,088
      408,192  316,707
Total assets      501,946  365,963
e quity A nd li Abilities Capital and reserves 
Share capital    22  18,682  18,654
Legal reserve    23  29  24
Merger reserve    25  (22,422)  (22,422)
Translation reserve      (47)  –
Retained earnings      216,012  162,506
Total equity      212,254  158,762
Non-current liabilities
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits    26  14,329  9,740
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables    27  263,439  197,461
Borrowings    28  11,924  –
      275,363  197,461
Total liabilities      289,692  207 ,201
Total equity and liabilities      501,946  365,963
The financial statements on pages 55 to 61 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2009 
and signed on its behalf by:
Peter Whitbread Nigel McCue Scott Doak
Chief Executive Officer and Director Chief Operating Officer and Director Chief Financial Officer and Director
The notes on pages 62 to 87 form an integral part of these financial statements. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
57
Financial statements
Company balance sheet
 As at 31 December
      2008  2007 
    Note  USD’000  USD’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiaries    17  746,779  743,314
Current assets
Other receivable      30  59
Due from related parties    20  22,837  15,798
Cash at bank      125  47
      22,992  15,904
Total assets      769,771  759,218
e quity A nd li Abilities Capital and reserves 
Share capital    22  18,682  18,654
Other reserve    24  708,852  708,852
Retained earnings      38,989  31,161
Total equity      766,523  758,667
Non-current liabilities
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits    26  758  551
Current liabilities
Other payables and accruals      2,490  –
Total liabilities      3,248  551
Total equity and liabilities      769,771  759,218
The financial statements on pages 55 to 61 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2009 
and signed on its behalf by:
Peter Whitbread Nigel McCue Scott Doak
Chief Executive Officer and Director Chief Operating Officer and Director Chief Financial Officer and Director
The notes on pages 62 to 87 form an integral part of these financial statements. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
58
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
   Share Legal Merger Translation Retained  
   capital reserve reserve reserve earnings Total 
  Notes USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
At 1 January 2007  22, 23, 25 18,654 22 (22,422) – 93,616 89,870
Profit for the year   – – – – 71,550 71,550
Share based payments – value of services provided  7 – – – – 14,942 14,942
Transfer to Legal reserve   – 2 – – (2) –
Dividends   10 – – – – (17,600) (17,600)
At 31 December 2007  22, 23, 25 18,654 24 (22,422) – 162,506 158,762
Shares issued during the year  22 28 – – – (28) –
Profit for the year   – – – – 85,455 85,455
Share based payments – value of services provided  7 – – – – 8,059 8,059
Treasury shares purchased  22 – – – – (2,625) (2,625)
Currency translation difference   – – – (47) – (47)
Transfer to Legal reserve  23 – 5 – – (5) –
Dividends  10 – – – – (37,350) (37,350)
At 31 December 2008  22, 23, 25 18,682 29 (22,422) (47) 216,012 212,254
The notes on pages 62 to 87 form an integral part of these financial statements. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
59
Financial statements
Company statement of changes in equity
     Share Other Retained  
     capital reserve earnings Total 
    Notes USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
At 1 January 2007    22, 24 18,654 708,852 11,997 739,503
Profit for the year    29 – – 21,822 21,822
Share based payments – value of services provided    7 – – 11,680 11,680
Share based payments – investment in subsidiaries    17 – – 3,262 3,262
Dividends    10 – – (17,600) (17,600)
At 31 December 2007    22, 24 18,654 708,852 31,161 758,667
Shares issued during the year    22 28 – (28) –
Profit for the year    29 – – 37,444 37,444
Share based payments – value of services provided    7 – – 4,594 4,594
Share based payments – investment in subsidiaries    17 – – 3,465 3,465
Treasury shares issued    22 – – (297) (297)
Dividends    10 – – (37,350) (37,350)
At 31 December 2008    22, 24 18,682 708,852 38,989 766,523
The notes on pages 62 to 87 form an integral part of these financial statements. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
60
Consolidated cash flow statement
 Year ended 31 December
      2008  2007 
    Notes  USD’000  USD’000
Operating activities
Profit for the year       85,455  71,550
Adjustments for:   
Share based payments – value of services provided    7  8,059  14,942
Unrealised fair value loss/(gain) on derivative financial instruments    31  (964)
Depreciation     15  9,756  7,485
Amortisation of intangible asset    16  90  44
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment   11  5  (4)
Provision/(release) for slow moving and obsolete inventories   18  195  (657)
Provision for impairment of trade receivables, net    13  2,741  17
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits     26  5,300  2,215
Interest income      (2,993)  (4,249)
Operating cash flows before payment of employees’ end of service benefits  
 and changes in working capital      108,639  90,379
Payment of employees’ end of service benefits    26  (711)  (514)
Changes in working capital:
Inventories before movement in provision       (13,996)  (1,517)
Trade and other receivables before movement in provision for impairment  
 of trade receivables      (142,603)  (36,459)
Trade and other payables excluding unpaid dividend      66,112  124,914
Derivative financial instruments      883  –
Net cash generated from operating activities      18,324  176,803
Investing activities
Payments for property, plant and equipment    15  (54,444)  (14,978)
Acquisition of a subsidiary net of cash acquired    16  –  (1,586)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment     95  378
Interest income      2,993  4,249
Payments for acquisition of Inspec      –  (3,000)
Movement in margin deposits    21  3,456  (6,457)
Net cash used in investing activities      (47,900)  (21,394)
Financing activities
Due to a related party net of unpaid dividend and purchase consideration  
 payable for acquisition of Inspec      –  (98)
Treasury shares purchased    7, 22  (2,625)  –
Dividends paid    10  (37,484)  (22,457)
Borrowings – revolving facility    28  10,693  –
Net cash used in financing activities      (29,416)  (22,555)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents     (58,992)  132,854
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the year      149,264  16,410
Exchange rate translation      (47)  –
Cash and cash equivalents, end of the year     21  90,225  149,264
The notes on pages 62 to 87 form an integral part of these financial statements. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
61
Financial statements
Company cash flow statement
 Year ended 31 December
      2008  2007 
    Notes  USD’000  USD’000
Operating activities
Profit for the year       37,444  21,822
Adjustments for:   
 Share based payments – value of services provided    7  4,594  11,680
 Provision for employees’ end of service benefits     26  207  15
 Dividends received from LEL      (37,350)  (22,100)
 Interest income      (2)  –
Operating cash flows before payment of employees’ end of service benefits  
 and changes in working capital      4,893  11,417
Changes in working capital:
 Other receivables      29  (6)
 Other payables and accruals      2,490  –
 Due from related parties – net    20  (7,039)  (15,864)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities     373  (4,453)
Investing activities
Dividends received from LEL      37,350  22,100
Interest income      2  –
Net cash generated from investing activities      37,352  22,100
Financing activities
Treasury shares issued    22  (297)  –
Dividends paid    10  (37,350)  (1 7,600)
Net cash used in financing activities      (37,647)  (1 7,600)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents      78  47
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the year      47  –
Cash and cash equivalents, end of the year       125  47
The notes on pages 62 to 87 form an integral part of these financial statements. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
62
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2008
1 Legal status and activities
The Company was incorporated and registered on 4 July 2006 in the Isle of Man as a public company limited by shares under the 
Isle of Man Companies Acts with the registered number 117101C. The Company acquired 100% of the legal and beneficial 
ownership in LEL from LHL, under a share for share exchange agreement dated 25 September 2006 and this transaction was 
accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the uniting of interests method (Notes 17 and 25). The Company was 
admitted to AIM of the London Stock Exchange with effect from 16 October 2006. From 6 November 2008 the Company moved 
from AIM and was admitted to trading on the LSE plc’s main market for listed securities. The address of the registered office of the 
Company is 15-19 Athol Street, Douglas, Isle of Man and the Company is managed from the UAE. The address of the principal 
place of the business is PO Box 5427, Dubai, UAE. 
The principal activities of the Group are: the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs, fabrication, assembly and new 
build construction for the offshore oil and gas sector, including jackup rigs, FPSO and other offshore and onshore structures, 
oilfield engineering services, including the upgrade and refurbishment of land rigs. 
The Company has either directly or indirectly the following subsidiaries:
      Percentage Percentage  
      of legal of beneficial  
      ownership ownership Country of 
Name of the subsidiary      % % Incorporation
Lamprell Energy Limited      100 100 Isle of Man
Lamprell Dubai LLC     49
 
* 100 UAE
Lamprell Sharjah WLL     49
 
* 100 UAE
Maritime Offshore Limited     100 100 Isle of Man
Maritime Offshore Construction Limited     100 100 Isle of Man
International Inspection Services Limited     100 100 Isle of Man
Cleopatra Barges Limited     100 100 British Virgin Islands
Lamprell plc employee benefit trust     100 
†
 Unincorporated
Jebel Ali Investments Limited**     100 100 British Virgin Islands
Lamprell Energy FZCo (previously known as Ahbab FZCo)**    90
 +
 100 UAE
Lamprell Asia Limited (incorporated on 14 May 2008)     100
 ++
 100 Thailand
* The balance of 51% in each case is registered in the name of a UAE National who has assigned all the economic benefits attached to his shareholding to the Group entity. LEL 
has the power to exercise control over the financial and operating policies of the entities incorporated in the UAE through management agreements and accordingly, these 
entities are consolidated as wholly owned subsidiaries in these consolidated financial statements. The UAE National shareholders of these entities receive sponsorship fees 
from the Group (Note 20).
†
 The beneficiaries of the EBT are the employees of the Group. 
** During 2007 LEL acquired 100% of the legal and beneficial ownership of JIL (which has 100% of the beneficial ownership of LE FZCo) from LHL for a total purchase 
consideration of USD 1,594,000 (Note 16). 
+
 A FZCo is required to have a minimum of two shareholders and consequently the balance of 10% is held by an employee of LEL in trust for the beneficial interest of the Group.
++
 A Thailand registered company is required to have a minimum of three shareholders and consequently of the total 867,000 shares, 2 shares are held by employees of the 
Lamprell Group in trust for the beneficial interest of the Group and the balance of 866,998 shares are held by LE FZCo. 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated and parent company financial statements are 
set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the financial statements of the parent Company have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, IFRIC interpretations and the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931–2004. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 1982, the Company has not presented its own income 
statement. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the 
accounting polices below. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated and 
parent company financial statements are disclosed in Note 4.  Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
63
Financial statements
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.1 Basis of preparation (continued)
(a) Interpretation effective in 2008 but early adopted by the Group in prior years
IFRIC 11, ‘IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions’, provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving 
treasury shares or involving Group entities (for example, options over a parent’s shares) should be accounted for as equity-settled 
or cash-settled share-based payment transactions in the stand-alone accounts of the parent and Group companies. This 
interpretation was early adopted by the Group in 2006.
(b) Standards and amendments that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group
The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Group’s 
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods, but the Group has not early adopted them: 
IAS 1 (Revised), ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ (effective from 1 January 2009). The standard is still subject to endorsement 
by the European Union (“EU”). The revised standard will prohibit the presentation of items of income and expenses (that is, ‘non-
owner changes in equity’) in the statement of changes in equity, requiring ‘non-owner changes in equity’ to be presented separately 
from owner changes in equity. All non-owner changes in equity will be required to be shown in a performance statement, but entities 
can choose whether to present one performance statement (the statement of comprehensive income) or two statements (the income 
statement and statement of comprehensive income). Where entities restate or reclassify comparative information, they will be 
required to present a restated balance sheet as at the beginning comparative period in addition to the current requirement to present 
balance sheets at the end of the current period and comparative period. The Group will apply IAS 1 (Revised) from 1 January 2009.
IAS 1 (Amendment), ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ (effective from 1 January 2009). The amendment is part of the IASB’s 
annual improvements project published in May 2008. The amendment clarifies that some rather than all financial assets and 
liabilities classified as held for trading in accordance with IAS 39, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ are 
examples of current assets and liabilities respectively. The Group will apply the IAS 39 (Amendment) from 1 January 2009. It is not 
expected to have an impact on the financial statements.
IAS 36 (Amendment), ‘Impairment of Assets’ (effective from 1 January 2009). The amendment is part of the IASB’s annual 
improvements project published in May 2008. Where fair value less costs to sell is calculated on the basis of discounted cash flows, 
disclosures equivalent to those for value-in-use calculation should be made. The Group will apply the IAS 36 (Amendment) and 
provide the required disclosure where applicable for impairment tests from 1 January 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU.
IFRS 2 (Amendment), ‘Share-Based Payment’ (effective from 1 January 2009). The amendment to the standard is still subject to 
endorsement by the EU. The amended standard deals with vesting conditions and cancellations. It clarifies that vesting conditions 
are service conditions and performance conditions only. Other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions. 
These features would need to be included in the grant date fair value for transactions with employees and others providing similar 
services; they would not impact the number of awards expected to vest or valuation thereof subsequent to grant date. All 
cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment. The Group will apply IFRS 
2 (Amendment) from 1 January 2009. It is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 3 (Revised), ‘Business Combinations’ (effective from 1 July 2009). The revised standard is still subject to endorsement by the 
EU. The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes. For 
example, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments 
classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the income statement. There is a choice on an acquisition-by-acquisition 
basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate 
share of the acquiree’s net assets. All acquisition-related costs should be expensed. The Group will apply IFRS 3 (Revised) 
prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010.
IFRS 8, ‘Operating Segments’ (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009). IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14, ‘Segment 
reporting’, and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, ‘Disclosures About Segments of an 
Enterprise and Related Information’. The new standard requires a ‘management approach’, under which segment information is 
presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes. The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009.
There are a number of minor amendments to IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’, IAS 8, ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors’, IAS 10, ‘Events After the Reporting Period’, IAS 18, ‘Revenue’ and IAS 34, ‘Interim Financial 
Reporting’, which are part of the IASB’s annual improvements project published in May 2008 (not addressed above). These 
amendments, subject to endorsement by the EU, are unlikely to have any material impact on the Group’s accounts and have 
therefore not been analysed in detail. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
64
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.2 Revenue recognition
Contract revenue is recognised under the percentage-of-completion method. When the outcome of the contract can be reliably 
estimated, revenue is recognised by reference to the proportion that accumulated costs up to the year end bear to the estimated 
total costs of the contract. When the contract is at an early stage and its outcome cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is 
recognised to the extent of costs incurred up to the year end which are considered recoverable.
Revenue related to variation orders is recognised when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the amount 
of revenue arising from the variation can be reliably measured.
A claim is recognised as contract revenue when settled or when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is 
probable that the customer will accept the claim and the amount can be measured reliably.
Losses on contracts are assessed on an individual contract basis and provision is made for the full amount of the anticipated 
losses, including any losses relating to future work on a contract, in the period in which the loss is first foreseen.
The aggregate of the costs incurred and the profit/loss recognised on each contract is compared against progress billings at the 
year end. Where the sum of the costs incurred and recognised profit or recognised loss exceeds the progress billings, the balance 
is shown under trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts. Where the progress billings exceed the sum of 
costs incurred and recognised profit or recognised loss, the balance is shown under trade and other payables as amounts due to 
customers on contracts. 
In determining contract costs incurred up to the year end, any amounts incurred relating to future activity on a contract are 
excluded and are presented as contract work-in-progress. 
2.3 Consolidation
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally 
accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group, except for acquisitions 
involving entities under common control, which are accounted for using the uniting of interests method. The cost of an acquisition 
under the purchase method is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or 
assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination under the purchase method are measured initially at their fair values at 
the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. 
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as 
goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the Group’s share of the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the 
difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Business combinations involving entities under common control do not fall within the scope of IFRS 3. Consequently, the Directors 
have a responsibility to determine a suitable accounting policy. The Directors have decided to follow the uniting of interests 
method for accounting for business combinations involving entities under common control.
Under the uniting of interests method there is no requirement to fair value the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities and 
hence no goodwill is created as balances remain at book value. Consolidated financial statements include the profit or loss and 
cash flows for the entire year (pre and post merger) as if the subsidiary had always been part of the Group. The aim is to show the 
combination as if it had always been combined.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised 
losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries 
have been changed or adjustments have been made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, where necessary, to ensure 
consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
65
Financial statements
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.4 Investment in subsidiaries
In the Company’s separate financial statements, the investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost less provision for impairment. Cost 
is the amount of cash paid or the fair value of the consideration given to acquire the investment. Income from such investments is 
recognised only to the extent that the Company receives distributions from accumulated profits of the investee company arising 
after the date of acquisition. Distributions received in excess of such profit i.e. from pre-acquisition reserves are regarded as a 
recovery of investment and are recognised as a reduction of the cost of the investment.
2.5 Foreign currency translation 
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The Group’s activities are primarily carried out from the UAE 
and its currency the UAE Dirham, which is pegged to the US Dollar, is the functional currency of all the entities in the Group 
(except LAL whose functional currency is the Thailand Baht and the EBT whose functional currency is the British Pound). The 
consolidated and parent company financial statements are presented in US Dollars.
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at 
year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that 
have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; −
income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates for the year; and −
all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity. −
2.6 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. The cost of property, plant and equipment is the 
purchase cost, together with any incidental expenses of acquisition. Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis over the 
expected useful economic lives of the assets as follows:
        Years
Buildings        10–20
Operating equipment        5–10
Fixtures and office equipment        3–5
Motor vehicles        5
The assets’ residual values, if significant, and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is 
probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured 
reliably. All repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Capital work-in-progress is stated at cost. When commissioned, capital work-in-progress is transferred to property, plant and 
equipment and depreciated in accordance with Group policies.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its 
recoverable amount. 
Gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by reference to their carrying amounts and are 
taken into account in determining operating profit. 
2.7 Intangible assets
Intangible assets representing operating leasehold rights are carried at cost (being the fair value on the date of acquisition where 
intangibles are acquired in a business combination) less accumulated amortisation and impairment, if any. Amortisation is 
calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the leasehold right over its estimated useful life (17 years). Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
66
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.8 Inventories
Inventories comprise raw materials and consumables which are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. 
Cost is determined on the weighted average basis and comprises direct purchase and other costs incurred in bringing the 
inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value is the estimate of the replacement cost.
2.9 Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. Significant 
financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or 
delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective 
interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in 
the income statement within ‘general and administrative expenses – others’. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written 
off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited 
against ‘general and administrative expenses – others’ in the income statement.
2.10 Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
2.11 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the 
amount of the obligation can be made.
2.12 Employee benefits
(a) Provision for staff benefits 
A provision is made for the estimated liability for employees’ entitlements to annual leave and related benefits as a result of 
services rendered by the employees up to the balance sheet date. Provision is also made, using actuarial techniques, for the end 
of service benefits due to employees in accordance with the UAE Labour Law for their periods of service up to the balance sheet 
date. The provision relating to annual leave and leave passage is disclosed as a current liability and included in trade and other 
payables, while that relating to end of service benefits is disclosed as a non-current liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in assumptions are charged or credited in the income statement in the period in 
which they arise. 
(b) Share based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services 
received in exchange for the grant of the shares/options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed over the 
vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares/options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market 
vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions 
about the number of shares/options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the 
number of shares/options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the 
income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to Retained earnings.
The Company has granted rights to its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary companies conditional upon the 
completion of continuing service with the Group for a specified period. The total amount of the grant over the vesting period  
is determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted and is recognised in each period as an increase  
in the investment in the subsidiary with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings. In the separate financial statements of the 
subsidiary, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the equity instruments of the Company  
i.e. parent is recognised as an expense with a corresponding credit to Equity.
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
67
Financial statements
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.13 Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.14 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current accounts with banks less margin deposits, other short-term highly 
liquid investments with original maturity of less than three months and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet. 
2.15 Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised 
cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the repayment value is recognised in the income 
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
2.16 Dividend distribution
Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the Group’s consolidated and parent company financial statements in the 
period in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders.
2.17 Segment reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and 
returns that are different from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or 
services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments 
operating in other economic environments.
Given the nature of the business and operations the Group has assessed that it has one business and one geographical segment. 
As the Thailand facility is not fully operational it is included in the same geographical segment.
2.18 Taxation
The Company, which is incorporated in the Isle of Man, was not subject to income tax in the Isle of Man up to 5 April 2007 as it 
was registered as a tax exempt company. With effect from 6 April 2007 the tax exempt company status ceased to exist in Isle of 
Man legislation and the Company is taxable at 0% in the Isle of Man. The Group is not currently subject to income tax in respect of 
its operations carried out in the UAE. The Group would be subject to income tax in respect of its operations through LAL in 
Thailand which was incorporated in May 2008. However, LAL has not yet commenced its commercial operations.
2.19 Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables. Currently 
the Group does not have any held to maturity and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which 
the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
(a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category 
if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they 
are designated as hedges. The Group has not classified any derivatives as hedges in a hedging relationship. Assets in this 
category are classified as current assets.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in 
the income statement. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired 
or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the ‘financial assets at fair value through profit or loss’ category are 
presented in the income statement within ‘other gains/(losses) – net’ in the period in which they arise. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
68
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.19 Financial assets (continued)
(b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. These are 
classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise trade receivables (Note 2.9), other receivables 
(excluding prepayments) and cash and cash equivalents (Note 2.14) in the Group balance sheet and amounts due from a related 
party in the Company balance sheet.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial 
assets is impaired.
2.20 Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts (e.g. sales contracts) are treated as separate 
derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts. Such derivative financial 
instruments are stated at fair value with movements in fair value recorded in the income statement. 
The fair value of the resulting (embedded) forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange 
rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. 
2.21 Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount 
exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. 
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash 
flows (cash-generating units). Non-financial assets that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment 
at each reporting date. Any material impairment loss is recognised in the income statement and separately disclosed.
2.22 Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in 
equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any 
directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders 
until the shares are cancelled or reissued. Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any 
directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the 
Company’s equity holders.
3 Financial risk management
3.1 Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange, cash flow and fair value 
interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. These risks are evaluated by the management on an ongoing basis to assess and 
manage critical exposures. The Group’s liquidity and market risks are managed as part of the Group’s treasury activities. Treasury 
operations are conducted within a framework of established policies and procedures. 
(a) Market risk – foreign exchange risk
The Group does not have any significant foreign currency exposure, as the majority of the revenue and purchases are 
denominated in US Dollars or the UAE Dirham which is pegged to the US Dollar. 
(b) Market risk – cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group holds its surplus funds in short term bank deposits. During the year ended 31 December 2008, if interest rates on 
deposits had been 0.5% higher/lower, the interest income would have been higher/lower by USD 549,000 (2007: USD 447,000). 
The Group does not have any long term borrowings and does not have significant interest rate risk exposure on bank overdrafts 
and revolving term facilities.
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
69
Financial statements
3 Financial risk management (continued)
3.1 Financial risk factors (continued)
(c) Credit risk
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is detailed in Notes 14, 19 and 21. The Group has a policy for dealing with customers with an 
appropriate credit history. The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banks, and trade 
receivables. The Group has a formal procedure of monitoring and follow up of customers for outstanding receivables. For banks 
and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of ‘A’ are accepted. The Group assesses 
internally the credit quality of each customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
At 31 December 2008, the Group had a significant concentration of credit risk with nine of its largest customer balances 
accounting for 85% (2007: 75%) of trade receivables outstanding at that date. Management believes that this concentration of 
credit risk is mitigated as the Group has long-standing relationships with these customers.
The table below shows the rating and balance of the thirteen major counterparties at the balance sheet date.
 2008 2007
     External  External  
Counterparty     rating
+
 USD’000 rating
+
 USD’000
Bank A      AA 29,821  AA 31,618
Bank B      AA– 61,454  AA 16,813
Bank C      A+ 4,756  AA– 4,009
Bank D      A 1,592  A 106,337
      97,623  158,777
+
 Based on Standard & Poor’s long term rating.
 2008 2007
     Internal  Internal  
     rating
++
 USD’000 rating
++
 USD’000
Customer 1      Group B 70,666 Group B 11,269
Customer 2      Group B 8,480 Group B 8,982
Customer 3      Group A 4,662 Group B 5,311
Customer 4     Group A 4,303 Group A 4,813
Customer 5     Group C 3,284 Group A 3,176
Customer 6     Group B 3,116 Group B 2,806
Customer 7     Group C 3,090 Group A 2,617
Customer 8     Group B 2,773 Group A 2,589
Customer 9     Group A 2,678 Group A 2,589
      103,052  44,152
The nine major customers in 2008 are not necessarily the same customers in 2007.
++
 Refer to Note 14 for the description of internal rating.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties, except for one customer with a balance 
of USD 2.8 million at 31 December 2008 which has been fully provided.
(d) Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an adequate amount 
of committed credit facilities. Due to the nature of the underlying business and through progress billings, the Group maintains 
adequate bank balances to fund its operations.
Management monitors the forecast of the Group’s liquidity position on the basis of expected cash flow. 
The Group is currently financed from Shareholders’ equity, Retained earnings and borrowings. All contractual commitments for 
financial liabilities are due within twelve months from the balance sheet date. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
70
3 Financial risk management (continued)
3.2 Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to 
provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure. Total capital for 
the Group and the Company is calculated as ‘total equity’ as shown in the Consolidated balance sheet and in the Company 
balance sheet respectively.
Presently, the Group has a dividend policy which takes into account the Group’s capital requirements, cash flows and earnings. 
4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
4.1 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom 
equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
Revenue recognition
The Group uses the percentage-of-completion method in accounting for its contract revenue. Use of the percentage-of-
completion method requires the Group to estimate the stage of completion of the contract to date as a proportion of the total 
contract work to be performed in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.2. As a result, the Group is required to 
estimate the total cost to completion of all outstanding projects at each period end. The application of a 10% sensitivity to 
management estimates of the total costs to completion of all outstanding projects at the year end would result in the revenue and 
profit increasing by USD 14.0 million (2007: USD 6.5 million) if the total costs to completion are decreased by 10% and the revenue 
and profit decreasing by USD 12.9 million (2007: USD 5.7 million) if the total costs to completion are increased by 10%.
Employee’s end of service benefits
The rate used for discounting the employees’ post employment defined benefit obligation should be based on market yields on 
high quality corporate bonds. In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market yields on government bonds 
should be used. In the UAE there is no deep market either for corporate or government bonds and therefore, the discount rate has 
been estimated using the US government bond rates as a proxy adjusted for the credit rating of the UAE and other differences 
noted in the lending rates of the UAE. On this basis the discount rate applied was 6%. If the discount rate used were to differ by 
0.5 points from management’s estimates, the carrying amount of the employee’s end of the service benefits provision at the 
balance sheet date would be an estimated USD 431,000 lower or USD 574,000 higher. 
5 Cost of sales
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Materials and related costs       254,969 146,019
Sub-contract costs       162,126 82,860
Staff costs (Note 9)       100,507 67,095
Sub-contract labour       36,326 27,586
Equipment hire       16,502 8,392
Repairs and maintenance       9,134 4,968
Depreciation       6,891 4,978
Yard rent       1,307 2,511
Others       23,766 15,123
       611,528 359,532
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
71
Financial statements
6 Selling and distribution expenses
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Advertisement and marketing       512 436
Entertainment        172 187
Travel       802 324
Other expenses       388 448
       1,874 1,395
7 General and administrative expenses – share based payments
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Proportionate amount of share based charge for the year:
– relating to shares gifted/granted in 2006       5,301 13,276
– relating to deferred share award in 2006       1,331 1,382
– relating to Free Share Plan       1,337 228
– relating to Executive Share Option Plan       90 56
       8,059 14,942
On 10 October 2006, LHL agreed with selected Directors and management personnel of the Group to gift a total of 9,311,996 
shares of Lamprell plc. The fair value, computed based on the Company’s share price on 11 October 2006 (£1.95), amounted  
to USD 33.9 million. The vesting of these shares is conditional upon the continued employment of the Director/management 
personnel concerned and these shares also accrue dividends which are also transferred to employees on vesting. In the event  
of the vesting condition not being satisfied by the employees the respective shares and the accumulated dividend revert to LHL. 
As part of the arrangements, 3,266,414 shares vested immediately in 2006, 2,212,721 shares vested during 2007 and the balance 
3,832,861 shares vested in 2008. During the year, a charge of USD 5.3 million (2007: USD 13.3 million) has been recognised in the 
consolidated income statement with a corresponding credit to the consolidated Retained earnings. This includes an amount of 
charge recognised in the income statement of the Company with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings of USD 3.1 million 
(2007: USD 10.3 million).
On 16 October 2006, the Company also granted a Director a deferred share award that gives him an entitlement to receive a certain 
number of shares equivalent to USD 3 million at no cost. The award, subject to satisfaction of a performance target and continued 
employment, will normally vest in three equal tranches on the announcement of the Company’s final results for each of the financial 
years ending 31 December 2007, 2008 and 2009. The performance target relates to the growth in the Company’s earnings per share. 
The number of shares awarded under this scheme, computed based on the Company’s share price on 11 October 2006 (£1.95), was 
828,689. The performance target for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 was achieved and following the announcement of 
the Company’s final results in March 2008, one third of the shares (276,230 shares) vested and was issued to the Director, along with 
3,079 shares relating to the dividend entitlement on those shares (Note 22). In accordance with the terms of the award, the balance of 
552,459 shares vested on 1 January 2009 following the resignation of the Director as he was considered a “good leaver” and were 
issued out of treasury shares together with 24,385 shares relating to the dividend entitlement on those shares in January 2009. 
Accordingly, the Group and Company have each recognised a charge of USD 1.3 million (2007: USD 1.4 million) in the income 
statement with the corresponding credit to Retained earnings. Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
72
7 General and administrative expenses – share based payments (continued)
During 2007 and 2008, the Company awarded shares to selected Directors, key management personnel and employees under 
the Free Share Plan that gives them entitlement to receive these shares at no cost. These free shares are conditional on the 
Directors/key management personnel/employee completing a specified period of service (the vesting period). The award does not 
have any performance conditions and does not entitle participants to dividend equivalents during the vesting period (except for 
92,725 shares awarded to two Directors during 2008 which entitles them to dividend equivalents during the vesting period). The 
fair value of the share awards made under this plan is based on the share price at the date of the grant less the value of the 
dividends foregone during the vesting period. The details of the shares granted under this scheme are as follows:
2007
        Expected 
  Number  Vesting  Fair value  withdrawal 
Grant date  of shares  period  per share  rate
16 May 2007  99,365  18 months  £3.16  5%
2008
        Expected 
  Number  Vesting  Fair value  withdrawal 
Grant date  of shares  period  per share  rate
10 January 2008  99,337  24 months  £4.00  5%
7 April 2008  25,301  24 months  £3.96  5%
27 April 2008  123,620  18 months  £4.28  5%
20 May 2008  70,000  36 months  £5.08  5%
Total  318,258      
Accordingly a charge of USD 1,337,108 (2007: USD 228,000) has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the 
period with a corresponding credit to the consolidated Retained earnings. This includes an amount of charge recognised in the 
income statement of the Company with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings of USD 0.2 million (2007: Nil).
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to settle the free share award in cash.
An analysis of the number of shares gifted/granted, vested during the year and expected to vest in future periods is provided below:
        Number of 
        shares
Shares expected to vest in future periods at 1 January 2007       6,874,271
Shares gifted under Free Share Plan        99,365
Shares vested during 2007        (2,212,721)
Shares forfeited during 2007        (6,873)
Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2007       4,754,042
Shares gifted under Free Share Plan        318,258
Shares vested and released out of shares gifted by LHL       (3,825,989)
Shares vested and issued out of treasury shares        (85,294)
Shares vested and new shares issued        (276,230)
Shares lapsed during the year due to non satisfaction of vesting conditions      (14,070)
        870,717
The above includes Nil shares at 31 December 2008 (2007: 1,613,269 shares) gifted by LHL on 10 October 2006 and held by the 
EBT in trust for certain management personnel. 
During 2008, EBT acquired 754,551 shares (2007: Nil) of the Company. The total amount paid to acquire the shares was USD 2.6 
million and has been deducted from the Consolidated Retained earnings (Note 22). Of the above, 85,294 shares (2007: Nil) 
amounting to USD 0.3 million (2007: Nil) were issued to employees on vesting of the free shares and 669,257 shares (2007: Nil) are 
held as treasury shares at 31 December 2008. The Company has the right to reissue these shares at a later date. These shares 
will be issued on the vesting of the deferred share award/free shares granted to certain employees of the Group (Note 22). 
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
73
Financial statements
7 General and administrative expenses – share based payments (continued)
The shares are expected to vest as follows:
 Number of shares
Year       2008 2007
2008       – 4,201,583
2009       694,320 276,230
2010       106,397 276,229
2011       70,000 –
       870,717 4,754,042
On 16 May 2007, the Company also granted share options to certain employees under the Executive Share Option Plan. This 
option plan does not entitle the employees to dividends. The exercise price of the granted options is £3.22. These options are 
conditional on the employee completing three years’ service (the vesting period) and hence the options are exercisable starting 
three years from the grant date, and have a contracted option term of ten years. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation 
to repurchase or settle the option in cash.
The movement in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise price are as follows:
       Average  
       exercise  
       price in  
       £ per share Options
At 1 January 2007       – –
Granted in 2007       3.22 105,369
       3.22 105,369
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have an expiry date of 16 May 2017 and none of the options outstanding were 
exercisable at 31 December 2008.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in 2007 determined using a binomial valuation model was £1.61 per option. The 
significant inputs into the model were a share price of £3.20 at the grant date, exercise price shown above, volatility of 40%, 
dividend yield of 0.81%, an expected option term of ten years, an annual risk-free interest rate of 4.95% and withdrawal rate of 5% 
per annum. As the Company was only listed in October 2006, the share price volatility was based on FTSE AIM peers in the same 
sector, Oil Equipment and Services. A charge of USD 89,942 (2007: USD 56,000) has been recognised in the consolidated income 
statement for the year with a corresponding credit to the consolidated Retained earnings. This includes an amount of charge 
recognised in the income statement of the Company with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings of USD 17,000 (2007: USD 
11,000).
On 22 January 2009, 600,000 free shares amounting to USD 725,618 were granted to certain key management personnel. These 
free shares have a vesting period of 24 months.
8 General and administrative expenses – others
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Staff costs (Note 9)       21,312 15,450
Utilities and communication       2,348 1,548
Depreciation       2,865 2,507
Other expenses       12,014 6,012
       38,539 25,517
Other expenses for the year 2008 include USD 3.4 million incurred mainly towards various legal and professional charges in 
connection with the admission of Lamprell plc to the official list of the LSE and provision for doubtful debts of USD 2.8 million 
(2007: USD 0.02 million) (Notes 13 and 19).  Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
74
9 Staff costs
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Wages and salaries        73,631 53,283
Employees’ end of service benefits (Note 26)       5,300 2,215
Share based payments – value of services provided (Note 7)      8,059 14,942
Other benefits       42,888 27,047
       129,878 97,487
Staff costs are included in:  
Cost of sales (Note 5)       100,507 67,095
General and administrative expenses – share based payments (Note 7)     8,059 14,942
General and administrative expenses – others (Note 8)      21,312 15,450
       129,878 97,487
Number of employees at 31 December        5,447 4,331
Directors’ remuneration comprises:
     Share based    
     payments –    
   Allowances  value of Post   
   and  services employment   
 Salary Fees benefits Bonus provided benefits Total Total 
 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2007 
 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
Executive Directors
Peter Whitbread 360 – 140 2,720
 
* 1,936 100 5,256 7,660
Nigel McCue
 
** 186 – 107 600 110 10 1,013 –
David Moran
 
*** 360 – 284 270 2,455 141 3,510 6,373
Scott Doak
 +
 262 – 153 523 93 17 1,048 948
Non-Executive Directors
Nigel McCue
 
** – 30 – – – – 30 60
Richard Raynaut – 83 – – – – 83 60
Peter Birch
 ++
 – 175 – – – – 175 153
Jonathan Silver
 ^
 – 68 – – – – 68 23
Colin Goodall
 ^^
 – 20 – – – – 20 –
 1,168 376 684 4,113 4,594 268 11,203 15,277
The emoluments of the Chief Executive Officer, which were also the emoluments of the highest paid Director, were USD 5.3 million 
(2007: USD 7.7 million) and these principally comprised salary, benefits, bonus and share based payments. 
* Includes USD 2 million in respect of an agreement to remain as the Group’s Chief Executive Officer. 
** Appointed as Chief Operating Officer and resigned as Non-Executive Director on 16 May 2008.
*** Appointed as a Director on 4 July 2006 and served as Chief Operating Officer until 15 May 2008 and resigned with effect from 1 January 2009. 
+
 Joined as Chief Financial Officer on 1 March 2007 and appointed as a Director on 11 June 2007. 
++
  Appointed as a Director on 7 July 2006 and resigned with effect from 19 December 2008.
^
  Appointed as a Director on 24 August 2007.
^^
  Appointed as a Director on 14 September 2008.
10 Dividends 
During the year (on 25 March 2008 and 26 September 2008), the Board of Directors of the Company approved dividends  
of USD 37.3 million comprising USD 24.5 million (US cents 12.25 per share) relating to 2007 and an interim dividend of  
USD 12.8 million (US cents 6.40 per share) for 2008. At 31 December 2008, the unpaid dividend amounted to USD 9,000 (Note 27).
During 2007 (on 2 April 2007 and 25 September 2007), the Board of Directors of the Company approved dividends of USD 17.6 million 
comprising USD 7.6 million (US cents 3.8 per share) relating to 2006 and an interim dividend of USD 10 million (US cents 5 per share) 
for 2007. At 31 December 2007, the unpaid dividend amounted to USD 143,000 (Note 27).
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
75
Financial statements
11 Other gains/(losses) – net
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Insurance reimbursement for property, plant and equipment and inventory damaged     833 3,275
Write off of property, plant and equipment damaged       – (315)
Write off of inventory damaged       – (2,960)
Fair value gain on derivative financial instruments (net)      192 1,351
(Loss)/profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment      (5) 4
Others       611 –
       1,631 1,355
12 Earnings per share
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding ordinary shares purchased by the company and held as treasury 
shares (Notes 7 and 22).
(b) Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume 
conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. For the deferred share award, free share award and share options, a calculation 
is done to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value (determined as the average annual market 
share price of the Company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share 
awards/options. The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued 
assuming the exercise of the share awards/options.
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
The calculations of earnings per share are based on the following profit and numbers of shares:
Profit for the year       85,455 71,550
Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share     200,010,565 200,000,000
Adjustments for:
Assumed vesting of deferred share awards        576,844 249,275
Assumed exercise of free share awards       75,778 52,766
Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share     200,663,187 200,302,041
Earnings per share:
Basic       42.73c 35.78c
Diluted       42.59c 35.72c
13 Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging:
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Depreciation       9,756 7,485
Auditor’s remuneration – audit services       419 337
Auditor’s remuneration – non-audit services re admission to the LSE      677 –
Auditor’s remuneration – taxation and other services       37 –
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings       9,988 8,758
Provision for impairment of trade receivables       2,778 88
Release of provision for impairment of trade receivables (Note 19)     (37) (71)
       2,741 17 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
76
14 Financial instruments by category
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below:
Group
       Assets at  
       fair value  
       through 
      Loans and profi t 
      receivables and loss Total 
      USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
31 December 2008
Derivative financial instruments      – 50 50
Trade receivables       120,517 – 120,517
Other receivables excluding prepayments      4,381 – 4,381
Cash and bank balances      97,824 – 97,824
Total      222,722 50 222,772
       Assets at  
       fair value  
       through 
      Loans and profi t 
      receivables and loss Total 
      USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
31 December 2007
Derivative financial instruments      – 964 964
Trade receivables      58,565 – 58,565
Other receivables excluding prepayments      5,698 – 5,698
Cash and bank balances      159,088 – 159,088
Total      223,351 964 224,315
Derivative financial instruments represent embedded derivatives arising in respect of one sale contract (2007: two contracts) (Note 2.20).
Group
 Liabilities at amortised cost
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Trade payables       83,778 24,329
Other payables and accruals       105,552 52,902
Borrowings       11,924 –
Total       201,254 77,231
Company
 Loans and receivables
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Cash at bank       125 47
Due from related parties       22,837 15,798
Total       22,962 15,845
 Liabilities at amortised cost
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Other payables and accruals       2,490 –
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
77
Financial statements
14 Financial instruments by category (continued)
Credit quality of financial assets
Group
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to historical information 
about counterparty default rates:
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Trade receivables
Group A       6,648 9,592
Group B       15,706 14,755
Group C       4,116 1,806
       26,470 26,153
Derivative financial assets
Group A       50 964
       50 964
Group A – Last six months average debtor days is less than 45.
Group B – Last six months average debtor days is between 46 and 90.
Group C – Last six months average debtor days is above 90.
None of the financial assets that is fully performing has been renegotiated in the last year.
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Cash at bank and short-term bank deposits
Standard & Poor ratings
AA       29,821 48,576
AA–       61,470 4,009
A+       4,756 –
A       1,592 106,344
A–       7 –
       97,646 158,929
Cash in hand       178 159
Cash at bank and in hand       97,824 159,088
Company
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Cash at bank 
Standard & Poor ratings
AA–       125 47 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
78
15 Property, plant and equipment 
     Fixtures,  Capital  
    Operating and office Motor work-in-  
   Buildings equipment equipment vehicles progress Total 
   USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
Cost
At 1 January 2007   16,045 35,871 5,586 1,932 579 60,013
Additions   537 8,866 1,702 834 3,039 14,978
Acquisition of a Subsidiary (Note 16)   52 – – – – 52
Transfers   27 521 11 – (559) –
Disposals   (506) (230) (116) (68) – (920)
At 31 December 2007   16,155 45,028 7,183 2,698 3,059 74,123
Additions   2,669 21,689 2,326 1,494 26,266 54,444
Transfers   514 1,014 66 – (1,594) –
Disposals   – (20) (739) (352) – (1,111)
At 31 December 2008   19,338 67,711 8,836 3,840 27,731 127,456
Depreciation
At 1 January 2007   4,241 10,454 3,719 1,004 – 19,418
Charge for the year   1,179 5,035 957 314 – 7,485
Disposals   (274) (120) (105) (47) – (546)
At 31 December 2007   5,146 15,369 4,571 1,271 – 26,357
Charge for the year   1,239 6,798 1,193 526 – 9,756
Disposals   – (13) (659) (339) – (1,011)
At 31 December 2008   6,385 22,154 5,105 1,458 – 35,102
Net book amount 
31 December 2008   12,953 45,557 3,731 2,382 27,731 92,354
31 December 2007   11,009 29,659 2,612 1,427 3,059 47,766
Buildings have been constructed on land leased, on a renewable basis, from the relevant Government authorities in the UAE.  
The remaining lives of the leases range between two to eight years. The Group has renewed the land leases, upon its expiry,  
in the past and its present intention is to continue to use the land and renew the leases for the foreseeable future.
Depreciation charge of USD 6,891,000 (2007: USD 4,978,000) has been charged to cost of sales and USD 2,865,000  
(2007: USD 2,507,000) to general and administrative expenses.
 
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
79
Financial statements
16 Business combinations
On 25 June 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of JIL for a purchase consideration of USD 1,594,000 from LHL (a 
related party). JIL is a holding company and beneficially owns 100% of LE FZCo which in turn has a favourable lease of land in 
Jebel Ali Free Zone up to November 2014. This lease is renewable for a further period of 10 years. 
        USD’000
Purchase consideration        1,594
Fair value of net identifiable assets acquired (see below)       1,594
Goodwill/Negative goodwill        –
The details of net assets acquired are as follows:
       Acquiree’s 
       carrying value Fair value 
       USD’000 USD’000
Value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired: 
Property, plant and equipment       52 52
Intangible asset
 
*       – 1,534
Deposits and prepaid expenses       21 21
Cash and bank balance (margin deposit)       8 8
Trade and other payables       (21) (21)
Net identifiable assets acquired       60 1,594
* Intangible asset represents a favourable operating leasehold right acquired, the value of which has been determined by calculating the present value of the expected future 
economic benefits to arise from the favourable lease term (17 years). The movement in intangible asset is as follows:
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
At 1 January       1,490 –
Acquired during the year       – 1,534
Amortisation charge during the year       (90) (44)
At 31 December        1,400 1,490
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2007, consolidated revenue and consolidated profit for the year ended 31 December 
2007 would have been USD 467.3 million and USD 71.5 million respectively. The post acquisition revenue of LE FZCo arises only 
from sub-leasing its land to a Group Company. 
        USD’000
Outflow of cash to acquire business, net of cash acquired: 
– cash consideration        1,594
– cash and bank balance in subsidiary acquired        (8)
Cash outflow on acquisition        1,586 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
80
17 Investment in subsidiaries
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Balance at 1 January       743,314 740,052
Effect of share based payments to subsidiaries employees under IFRIC 11     3,465 3,262
       746,779 743,314
On 25 September 2006, the Company entered into a share for share exchange agreement with LEL and LHL under which it 
acquired 100% of the 49,003 issued shares of LEL from LHL in consideration for the issue to LHL of 200,000,000 shares of the 
Company.
On 11 October 2006, the Company obtained a listing on the AIM. With effect from 6 November 2008 the Company moved from 
AIM to the official list of the LSE.
As a part of the listing on the AIM, LHL sold a number of shares of the Company to investors at £1.95. The investment in LEL has 
been recognised at cost being the fair value of 200,000,000 shares of the Company at £1.95. The difference between the cost of 
the investment (USD 727,506,000) in LEL and the nominal value of Share capital of the Company (USD 18,654,000) has been 
recorded as Other reserve (Note 24). The acquisition of LEL has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method in the 
consolidated financial statements.
During 2008, the Company granted free shares to employees of LEL and Inspec under its Free Share Plan (Note 7). The fair value 
of these free shares at grant date was USD 2.7 million. These shares have a vesting period of eighteen to thirty six months. 
Accordingly, USD 0.8 million has been recorded as an increase in investment in subsidiaries with a corresponding credit to 
Retained earnings.
During 2007, the Company granted free shares and stock options to employees of LEL, LD and Inspec under its Free Share Plan 
and Executive Share Option Plan (Note 7). The fair value of these free shares and options at grant date was USD 968,000. These 
shares and options have a vesting period of eighteen to thirty six months. Accordingly, USD 0.4 million (2007: 0.3 million) has been 
recorded as an increase in investment in subsidiaries with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings.
During 2006, the Company granted rights to its equity instruments to certain employees of LEL. The fair value of these shares at 
grant date was USD 17.8 million. The fair value was computed based on the Company’s share price on 11 October 2007 (£1.95). 
As part of the arrangements shares with a fair value of USD 11.9 million vested immediately and the balance was held under 
lock-in arrangements and vested over a period of two years. Accordingly, USD 2.2 million (2007: USD 3 million) has been recorded 
as an increase in the investment in LEL with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings.
18 Inventories
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Raw materials and consumables       11,494 7,052
Goods in transit       9,554 –
Less: Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories      (542) (347)
       20,506 6,705
The cost of raw materials and consumable inventories recognised as an expense and included in contract costs amounted to  
USD 22.4 million (2007: USD 11.7 million). In the opinion of the Directors, the replacement cost of the inventories does not differ 
significantly from its carrying value.
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
81
Financial statements
19 Trade and other receivables
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Trade receivables       120,517 58,565
Other receivables and prepayments       16,385 12,571
Advances to suppliers        22,239 –
       159,141 71,136
Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables       (2,788) (87)
       156,353 71,049
Amounts due from customers on contracts       103,846 24,868
Contract work in progress (Note 2.2)       29,613 54,033
       289,812 149,950
Amounts due from customers on contracts comprise: 
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Costs incurred to date       426,803 216,007
Attributable profits        112,237 73,683
       539,040 289,690
Less: Progress billings       (435,194) (264,822)
       103,846 24,868
An analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Fully performing       26,470 26,153
Past due but not impaired       91,259 32,325
Impaired       2,788 87
       120,517 58,565
Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are generally not considered impaired. As of 31 December 2008, trade 
receivables of USD 91.3 million (2007: USD 32.3 million) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of independent 
customers for whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Up to 3 months       84,318 27,993
3 to 6 months       6,117 3,432
Over 6 months       824 900
       91,259 32,325
  Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
82
19 Trade and other receivables (continued)
At 31 December 2008, trade receivables of USD 2.8 million (2007: USD 0.09 million) were impaired and provided for. The ageing of 
these receivables is as follows:
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Up to 3 months       2,772 –
Over 6 months       16 87
       2,788 87
Group
The carrying amounts of the group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
US Dollar       113,810 53,731
UAE Dirham        6,707 3,711
Euro       – 1,123
       120,517 58,565
Movements on the group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
At 1 January       87 97
Provision for receivables impairment       2,778 88
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible      (40) (27)
Unused amounts reversed (Note 13)       (37) (71)
At 31 December       2,788 87
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in ‘general and administrative expenses – 
others’ in the income statement (Note 8). Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no 
expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. With 
respect to receivable from one customer, amounting to USD 71 million, the Group has possessory lien on the new build unit under 
construction and the materials procured for the construction of the unit.
The carrying value of trade receivables approximates their fair value.
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
83
Financial statements
20 Related party balances and transactions 
Related parties comprise LHL (which owns 33% of the issued share capital of the Company), certain legal shareholders of the 
Group companies and Directors and key management personnel of the Group. Related parties for the purpose of parent company 
financial statements also include subsidiaries owned directly or indirectly. Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial 
statements, the Group entered into the following significant transactions during the year with related parties at prices and on terms 
agreed between the related parties: 
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Key management compensation       16,482 21,714
Sponsorship fees paid to legal shareholders of Lamprell  Dubai LLC and Lamprell Sharjah WLL (Note 1)  139 131
Key management compensation comprises:
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Salaries and other short term employee benefits       10,868 7,495
Share based payments – value of service provided       5,064 14,250
Post-employment benefits       550 (31)
       16,482 21,714
Due from related parties
       2008 2007 
Company       USD’000 USD’000
Lamprell Energy Limited (receivable in respect of management fees charged by the Company)   20,504 15,798
EBT*        2,333 –
       22,837 15,798
* Includes USD 2,328,296 due in respect of payment made for treasury shares acquired by EBT on behalf of the Group.
LEL provided a financial guarantee on behalf of Nemmoco Slovenia Corporation (“NSC”), a company previously under the control 
of LHL, in respect of certain royalty payment obligations of NSC. LHL indemnified LEL for any payment it may have to make under 
its obligation to NSC and LHL was, in turn, indemnified to the extent of 50% of the liability, if any, by a Director of LEL. The 
guarantee was expected to fall away at such time as NSC ceased to be owned, directly or indirectly, by LEL or its owners. NSC 
ceased to be owned by LEL in 2003 and LHL ceased to have any interest in NSC as from 7 March 2007.
In light of the above, and based on information available at 31 December 2008 and 2007 the possibility of an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits in relation to this guarantee is considered to be remote.
During the year, the Company has provided performance guarantees on behalf of its subsidiary. These guarantees issued in the 
normal course of business are outstanding at the year end and no outflow of resources embodying economic benefits in relation 
to these guarantees is expected by the Company.
Dividends paid by the Company include an amount of USD 13.1 million (2007: 6.4 million) in respect of shares held by key 
management personnel (including those held by the EBT in respect of shares gifted) of which USD 12.3 million (2007: 5.8 million) 
was paid to LHL, a company controlled by Steven Lamprell who is a member of key management.  Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
84
21 Cash and bank balances
Group
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Cash at bank and on hand       21,112 11,828
Short term and margin deposits       76,712 147,260
Cash and bank balances       97,824 159,088
Less: Margin deposits       (6,368) (9,824)
Less: Bank overdrafts (Note 28)       (1,231) –
Cash and cash equivalents (for cash flow purpose)       90,225 149,264
At 31 December 2008 and 2007, the cash at bank and short term deposits were held with six banks. The effective interest rate on 
short term deposits was 2.79% (2007: 4.68%) per annum. These deposits have an average maturity of seven days to one month. 
The margin deposits with the bank are held under lien against guarantees issued (Note 31).
22 Share capital
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares
Company
 Equity share capital
       Number USD’000
At 1 January 2007 and 2008       200,000,000 18,654
Issued on 26 March 2008 in connection with a deferred share award granted on 16 October 2006 (Note 7)  279,309 28
At 31 December 2008       200,279,309 18,682
The above includes Nil shares at 31 December 2008 (2007: 1,613,269 shares) gifted by LHL on 10 October 2006 and held by the 
EBT in trust for certain management personnel (Note 7).
The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 400 million (2007: 400 million shares) with par value of 5 pence per share  
(2007: 5 pence per share).
On 26 March 2008, the Company issued 279,309 shares at a nominal value of £0.05 per share by debiting the Retained earnings. 
These shares which include 3,079 shares relating to dividend entitlement were issued to a Director of the Company, following the 
satisfactory fulfilment of the vesting condition, in accordance with the deferred share award granted on 16 October 2006 (Note 7).
During 2008, EBT acquired 754,551 shares (2007: Nil) of the Company. The total amount paid to acquire the shares was USD 2.6 
million and has been deducted from the Consolidated Retained earnings (Note 7). Of the above, 85,294 shares (2007: Nil) 
amounting to USD 0.3 million (2007: Nil) were issued to employees on vesting of the free shares and 669,257 shares (2007: Nil) are 
held as treasury shares at 31 December 2008. The Company has the right to reissue these shares at a later date. These shares 
will be issued on the vesting of the deferred share award/free shares granted to certain employees of the Group (Note 7).
23 Legal reserve 
The Legal reserve of USD 29,436 (2007: USD 24,077) relates to subsidiaries incorporated as limited liability companies in the UAE. 
In accordance with the respective subsidiary’s Articles of Association and the UAE Federal Law No. (8) of 1984, as amended, 10% 
of the profit for the year of such companies is transferred to a Legal reserve. Such transfers are required to be made until the 
reserve is equal to, at least, 50% of the share capital of such companies.
24 Other reserve
Other reserve of USD 708,852,000 represents the difference between the cost of the investment in LEL (USD 727,506,000) and 
the nominal value of Share capital issued by the Company to acquire LEL (USD 18,654,000) (Notes 17 and 22). The Other reserve 
is not available for distribution. 
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
85
Financial statements
25 Merger reserve
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Nominal value of shares of the Company       18,654 18,654
Share capital of LEL       (82) (82)
Merger reserve on acquisition of LEL       18,572 18,572
Purchase consideration relating to acquisition of Inspec      4,000 4,000
Share capital of Inspec       (150) (150)
Merger reserve on acquisition of Inspec       3,850 3,850
Total       22,422 22,422
On 11 September 2006, LEL acquired 100% of the legal and beneficial ownership of Inspec from LHL for a consideration of  
USD 4 million. This acquisition has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method and the difference between the 
purchase consideration (USD 4 million) and Share capital of Inspec (USD 150,000) has been recorded in the Merger reserve. 
On 25 September 2006, the Company entered into a share for share exchange agreement with LEL and LHL under which it 
acquired 100% of the 49,003 shares of LEL from LHL in consideration for the issue to LHL of 200,000,000 shares of the 
Company. This acquisition has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method and the difference between the nominal 
value of shares issued by the Company (USD 18,654,000) and the nominal value of LEL shares acquired (USD 82,000) has been 
recorded in the Merger reserve.
26 Provision for employees’ end of service benefits
Group
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
At 1 January       9,740 8,039
Charge for the year (Note 9)       5,300 2,215
Payments during the year       (711) (514)
At 31 December       14,329 9,740
Company
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
At 1 January       551 536
Charge for the year       207 15
At 31 December       758 551
In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligations 
at 31 December 2008 and 2007, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees’ end of service benefits payable 
under the UAE Labour Law. Under this method, an assessment has been made of an employee’s expected service life with the 
Group and the expected basic salary at the date of leaving the service. Management has assumed average increment/promotion 
costs of 4% to 5% (2007: 4% to 5%). The expected liability at the date of leaving the service has been discounted to its net present 
value using a discount rate of 6% (2007: 6.25%).  Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
86
27 Trade and other payables
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Trade payables       83,778 24,329
Other payables and accruals       105,552 52,902
Amounts due to customers on contracts       72,479 95,087
Advances received for contract work       1,621 25,000
Dividend payable
 ++
 (Note 10)       9 143
       263,439 197,461
Amounts due to customers on contracts comprise:  
 Progress billings       375,806 302,710
 Less : Cost incurred to date       (247,401) (165,495)
 Less : Attributable profits       (55,926) (42,128)
       72,479 95,087
++
 The dividend payable represents an amount held by the EBT in respect of treasury shares (2007: in respect of shares gifted to employees held under lock-in arrangements). 
This dividend will be paid by the EBT to the employees upon completion of the vesting period.
28 Borrowings
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Bank overdrafts       1,231 –
Revolving facility       10,693 –
       11,924 –
The bank facility relating to overdrafts and revolving facility carry interest at LIBOR/EIBOR + 2.0% to 2.5%.
The carrying amounts of borrowings approximate to their fair value and are denominated in the following currencies:
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
UAE Dirham       11,779 –
US Dollar       145 –
       11,924 –
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Floating rate:
Expiring within one year       250 22,250
Expiring beyond one year       15,076 –
       15,326 22,250
The facilities expiring within one year are annual facilities subject to review at various dates during 2009. The other facilities have 
been arranged to meet the working capital requirements of the Group.
29 Profit of the parent company
The profit of USD 37,443,956 (2007: USD 21,822,143) in respect of the Company has been included in these consolidated financial 
statements.
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2008 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
87
Financial statements
30 Commitments
(a) Operating lease commitments
The Group leases land and staff accommodation under various operating lease agreements. The remaining lease terms of the 
majority of the leases are between 7 to 25 years and are renewable at mutually agreed terms. The future minimum lease payments 
payable under operating leases are as follows:
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Not later than one year       6,063 3,753
Later than one year but not later than five years       14,001 8,951
Later than five years       36,321 52,308
       56,385 65,012
(b) Other commitments
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Letters of credit for purchase of materials and operating equipment     11,326 12,029
Capital commitments for purchase of operating equipment      3,215 6,976
Capital commitments for construction of a facility       25,413 13,962
31 Bank guarantees
       2008 2007 
       USD’000 USD’000
Performance/bid bonds       135,903 107 ,672
Advance payment, labour visa and payment guarantees      14,147 6,838
       150,050 114,510
The various bank guarantees, as above, were issued by the Group’s bankers in the ordinary course of business. A few guarantees 
are secured by 100% cash margins, assignments of receivables from some customers and in respect of guarantees provided by 
banks to the Group companies, they have been secured by Parent company guarantees. In the opinion of the Management the 
above bank guarantees are unlikely to result in any liability to the Group.
32 Events after balance sheet date
The Board of Directors of the Company have proposed a dividend of 3.15 cents per share amounting to USD 6.31 million at a 
meeting held on 27 March 2009. In accordance with the accounting policy under IFRS set out at Note 2.16 this dividend has not 
been accrued at 31 December 2008 (2008: 12.25 cents per share amounting to USD 24.5 million declared on 25 March 2008 was 
not accrued at 31 December 2007). However, this is not in accordance with the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931–2004 which 
require such a proposed dividend to be accrued at the balance sheet date.  Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
88 Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
88
Definitions
The following definitions apply throughout this document 
unless the context requires otherwise:
“Admission” – the admission of the entire issued ordinary 
share capital of the Company to AIM becoming effective in 
accordance with paragraph 6 of the AIM Rules
“AGM” – Annual General Meeting
“Ahbab” – Ahbab FZCO
“AIM” – Alternative Investment Market – a market operated by 
London Stock Exchange Plc
“API” – American Petroleum Institute 
“BassDrill” – BassDrill Limited
“Board” or “Directors” – the Board of Directors of the 
Company
“CAD” – Canadian Dollars
“CBL” – Cleopatra Barges Limited 
“CEO” – Chief Executive Officer
“CFO” – Chief Financial Officer
“CSR” – Corporate Social Responsibility
“Company” – Lamprell plc
“COO” – Chief Operating Officer
“DBMA” – Don Bosco Maritime Academy
“DCC” – Director of Corporate Communications
“EBITDA” – Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and 
Amortisation
“EBT” – Lamprell plc Employee Benefit Trust
“EPC” – Engineering, Procurement and Construction
“EPS” – Earnings Per Share
“E&I” – Electrical & Instrumentation
“FPSO” – Floating, Production, Storage and Offloading 
“FTSE” – Financial Times Stock Exchange index
“FZCo” – Free Zone Company
“Group” – The Company and its subsidiaries
“HSE” – Health, Safety and Environment 
“IAS” – International Accounting Standards 
“IFRIC” – International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee interpretation 
“IFRS” – International Financial Reporting Standards
“Inspec” – International Inspection Services Limited
“IPO” – Initial Public Offering
“ISO” – International Organisation for Standards
“JIL” – Jebel Ali Investments Limited
“Labour Law” – Labour Law (Federal Law No.8 of 1980 (as 
amended))
“Lamprell” – the Company and its subsidiary undertakings 
“LD” – Lamprell Dubai LLC
“LEL” – Lamprell Energy Limited
“LHL” – Lamprell Holdings Limited 
“LS” – Lamprell Sharjah WLL
“LTDS” – LeTourneau Technologies Drilling Systems Inc.
“LTI” – Lost Time Incident 
“MOCL” – Maritime Offshore Construction Limited 
“MOL” – Maritime Offshore Limited
“NDC” – National Drilling Company
“PSP” – Performance Share Plan
“RIAP” – Rig Integrity Assurance Programme
“SBM” – Single Buoy Moorings
“UAE” – the Federation of the United Arab Emirates
“United States” or “US” – the United States of America Lamprell plc is a leading 
contractor in the Arabian Gulf, 
providing specialist services to 
the offshore and onshore oil 
and gas industry.
The principal markets in which Lamprell 
operate are: 
 new build construction of jackup rigs and  −
liftboats and upgrade and refurbishment  
of jackup rigs; and
other new build construction for the  −
offshore oil and gas sector including FPSO, 
tender assist drilling units and other 
offshore and onshore structures.
Lamprell is also involved in providing  −
oilfield engineering services, including the 
new build construction, upgrade and 
refurbishment of land rigs.
Contents Business overview
01 2008 Highlights
02 Lamprell at a Glance
04 Chairman’s Statement
06 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Business review
10 Continuous Growth
12 Diversifying our Core Offering
14 Maintaining Superior Customer Service
16 Our Strategy
18 Review of Operations
24 Financial Review
28 Risk Factors
30 Corporate Social Responsibility
34 Board of Directors
Corporate governance
36 Directors’ Report
39 Corporate Governance
44 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial statements
54 Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of Lamprell plc
55 Consolidated Income Statement
56 Consolidated Balance Sheet
57 Company Balance Sheet
58 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
59 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
60 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
61 Company Cash Flow Statement
62 Notes to the Financial Statements
88 Definitions
ibc Corporate Advisers
Corporate Advisers
Broker
J.P. Morgan Cazenove Limited
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA 
UK
Legal Advisers to the Company
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street 
London EC4Y 1HS 
UK
Clyde & Co. 
PO Box 7001 
City Tower 2
Sheikh Zayed Road 
Dubai 
UAE
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Sixty Circular Road 
Douglas
Isle of Man IM1 1SA
Principal Bankers
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
PO Box 3766
Dubai
UAE
Registrars
Capita Registrars (Jersey) Limited
PO Box 532
St Helier
Jersey JE2 3QA
UK Transfer Agent
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham BR3 4TU
UK Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Registered Office:
15–19 Athol Street
Douglas
Isle of Man
IM1 1LB
Operations:
PO Box 5427
Dubai
United Arab Emirates
Telephone: +971 6 5282323
Fax: +971 6 5284325
Email: lamprell@lamprell.com
Website: www.lamprell.com
