 Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Registered Office:
15–19 Athol Street
Douglas
Isle of Man
IM1 1LB
Operations:
PO Box 5427
Dubai
United Arab Emirates
Telephone: +971 6 5282323
Fax: +971 6 5284325
Email: lamprell@lamprell.com
Website: www.lamprell.com
Lamprell plc
Annual report and accounts 
2009  Lamprell plc is a leading 
contractor in the Arabian Gulf, 
providing specialist services to 
the offshore and onshore oil 
and gas industry.
The principal markets in which Lamprell operate are: 
 new build construction of jackup rigs and liftboats  −
and upgrade and refurbishment of jackup rigs; and,
other new build construction for the offshore oil and  −
gas sector including FPSO, tender assist drilling 
units and other offshore and onshore structures.
Lamprell is also involved in providing oilfield  −
engineering services, including the new build 
construction, upgrade and refurbishment of  
land rigs.
Contents
Business overview
01 Highlights
02 Lamprell at a Glance
04 Chairman’s Statement
06 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Business review
10 Continuous Growth
12 Diversifying our Core Offering
14 Customer Satisfaction
16 Our Strategy
18 Operating Review
22 Risk Factors
24 Financial Review
28 Corporate Social Responsibility
32 Directors’ Biographies
Corporate governance
34 Directors’ Report
38 Corporate Governance
46 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial statements
56 Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of Lamprell plc
57 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
58 Consolidated Balance Sheet
59 Company Balance Sheet
60 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
61 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
62 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
63 Company Cash Flow Statement
64 Notes to the Financial Statements
93 Definitions
IBC Corporate Advisers
Corporate Advisers
Broker
J.P. Morgan Cazenove Limited
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA 
UK
Legal Advisers to the Company
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street 
London EC4Y 1HS 
UK
Clyde & Co. 
PO Box 7001 
City Tower 2
Sheikh Zayed Road 
Dubai 
UAE
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Sixty Circular Road 
Douglas
Isle of Man IM1 1SA
Principal Bankers
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
PO Box 3766
Dubai
UAE
Registrars
Capita Registrars (Isle of Man) Limited
3rd Floor, Exchange House
54–62 Athol Street
Douglas
Isle of Man IM1 1JD
UK Transfer Agent
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham BR3 4TU
UK Operating proﬁt
USD million
2007 2008 2009
67.3
82.5
27.9
Earnings per share
US cents
2007 2008 2009
35.8
42.7
14.3
EBITDA
USD million
2007 2008 2009
74.8
92.3
41.2
Net proﬁt
USD million
2007 2008 2009
71.6
85.5
28.4
Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
01
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Highlights
USD 320.4 million of contract awards  −
from Fred Olsen Windcarrier AS for the 
construction of two wind turbine 
installation vessels
Delivered first Seajacks Self Elevating,  −
Self Propelled Liftboats “Seajacks 
Kraken” and “Seajacks Leviathan”
Delivered first “New Build” Jackup  −
Drilling Rig constructed in Hamriyah Yard 
to Scorpion
 First revenue generation at Lamprell’s  −
new facility in Thailand
 Key Board changes with the appointment  −
of a new CEO to maintain experience  
and expertise Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
02
Lamprell  
at a Glance
Lamprell is located in the UAE in the Arabian 
Gulf, one of the most important oil and gas 
regions in the world. The Group has four 
facilities in three locations in the UAE and a 
facility in Thailand. The development of a new 
much larger facility in the Hamriyah Free 
Zone, in the UAE is underway. 
Jebel Ali 
The facility occupies an area of 
178,900m² that includes more than 
16,000m² of covered work spaces 
with internal overhead cranes 
suitable for carrying out fabrication 
and assembly activities under cover. 
The covered areas also contain the latest 
welding and CNC cutting machinery. This 
protected work environment is cooler, 
safer and more productive than an 
outside location, and it allows the 
production of a higher quality product at 
less cost. The yard was designed to allow 
optimum production based on a clear 
and logical flow of material through the 
facility. In addition to the covered 
fabrication areas it has extensive open 
fabrication areas that are equipped with 
gantry and mobile crawler cranes. 
Oilfield Engineering 
The Oilfield Engineering facility 
was completed in 2005 and is a 
purpose-built facility located within 
the boundaries of the Jebel Ali 
facility. The Oilfield Engineering 
facility is accredited with  
all relevant API licences  
and certifications. 
In addition to the covered fabrication 
areas it has extensive open fabrication 
areas that are equipped with gantry and 
mobile crawler cranes. These open areas 
are used to assemble the final structures. 
There are also first class project, 
production, engineering and client offices 
for more than 300 people at the facility.
Lamprell’s Jebel Ali facility was purpose 
built in 2002 and is one of the most 
modern in the region. It is located in the 
Jebel Ali Free Zone and is 25km from  
the centre of Dubai.
Middle East Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
03
Business overview
Hamriyah 
This 51,000m² portside facility  
has direct quayside access.  
This facility primarily undertakes 
jackup rig upgrade and 
refurbishment projects together 
with new build projects.
The core workforce at this facility as with 
both the Sharjah and the Jabel Ali 
facilities workforce is supplemented from 
the local labour market when required to 
meet the demands of specific projects.
New facility 
When completed the new facility will have 
a developed area of 250,000m
2
 with a 
deepwater berthing quay wall 1,250m in 
length and 9m deep. This will enable 
Lamprell to work on up to 10 rigs and 
simultaneously construct up to three new 
build jackups.
Sharjah 
Lamprell’s facility in Sharjah is 
located in Port Khalid, a designated 
free zone, and it has 360m of direct 
quayside access at which the 
majority of Lamprell’s jackup rig 
upgrade and refurbishment 
projects are executed. 
The facility has a total surface area of 
36,000m² that includes 28,000m² of  
open fabrication areas that are serviced 
by mobile crawler cranes and tower 
cranes, as well as 3,500m² of covered 
fabrication areas. Lamprell’s senior 
management team and the service 
departments such as finance, human 
resources and procurement are all 
located at the Sharjah facility.
Thailand 
Five year lease for a 46,950m² 
facility with 158m of exclusive 
deep water quayside in Sattahip, 
Thailand, in May 2008.
The Company believes this expansion 
provides an excellent opportunity to 
transfer the skills and reputation Lamprell 
has built over many years, through its 
operations in the United Arab Emirates,  
to a region which offers a significant  
fleet of jackup drilling rigs owned by 
predominantly the same group of clients 
that operate in the Middle East. 
The yard has been granted necessary 
operating licences and has commenced 
commercial operations.
Asia Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
04
Chairman’s 
Statement
2009 was a challenging year for the 
Company with unprecedented trading 
conditions around the globe. 
Jonathan Silver, Chairman
Steven D. Lamprell, President
Despite these conditions and increased 
competition, Lamprell was able to achieve 
solid financial results at the same time as 
continuing to position itself, through 
capacity expansion, operating efficiencies 
and a wider service offering, for the many 
opportunities that the changing economic 
and industrial environment will bring. As 
the start of 2010 has already 
demonstrated, Lamprell is well placed to 
harness these opportunities.
Lamprell generated revenue in 2009 of 
USD 426 million, adjusted net profit of 
USD 28 million and fully diluted and 
adjusted earnings per share of 14.20 
cents. Given the challenging market 
conditions and the dramatic reduction of 
credit in Lamprell’s operating markets, 
these metrics represent a very solid 
performance for the year.
A landmark year for Lamprell as the first 
three Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction contracts delivered on time 
and on budget.
Lamprell announces USD 320.4 
million of contract awards. Contract 
awards from Fred Olsen Windcarrier AS 
which in aggregate total USD 320.4 million. 
Each Engineering, Procurement & 
Construction contract award from 
Windcarrier is for the design, construction 
and delivery of a Gusto MSC NG-9000 
self elevating and self propelled offshore 
wind turbine installation vessel.
A landmark year La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
05
Business overview
In response to the challenging trading 
conditions that the Company experienced 
at the beginning of the year, the Board 
has taken action to manage the 
Company’s finances prudently and to 
utilise the Company’s flexible business 
model to control the cost base tightly. 
This has ensured the ongoing financial 
health of the business. Management have 
focused much time and effort on 
developing the Company’s bid pipeline 
and replenishing its order book. We are 
seeing the fruits of those labours with 
more than USD 3.7 billion of bids 
outstanding at the year end and USD 420 
million of contracts awarded since then.
The foundation for these awards remains 
Lamprell’s reputation for high quality 
project execution, which enables it to win 
repeat business as well as attracting 
major, new customers, as seen with the 
recent contract awards. 2009 saw the 
completion of several significant projects 
including the delivery, in April 2009, of the 
Company’s first new-build jackup rig, the 
Offshore Freedom and the successful 
completion, for Seajacks, of two liftboats 
for wind turbine installation. The latter 
project, in particular, marks the Company’s 
entry into an exciting new market with 
encouraging growth potential.
In May 2009 our COO Nigel McCue took 
over as CEO from Peter Whitbread, who 
has remained on the Board in the role as 
Director of International Development. 
Peter retires by rotation at the time of the 
AGM in June and has decided to retire 
from the Company at that time and not 
offer himself for reappointment. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank Peter 
for the tremendous contribution that he 
has made to the Company over the years.
I am pleased to announce that, having 
considered the current market conditions, 
profit earned and cash generated during 
the year ended 31 December 2009, the 
Board is recommending a dividend of 
3.80 cents per share. If approved, this will 
be paid to shareholders on 16 June 2010 
provided they were on the register on  
14 May 2010.
I believe that the Board is well-equipped 
to meet the challenges that this volatile 
and rapidly changing market presents 
and I am confident that Lamprell’s 
reputation for quality, technical capability, 
project execution and delivery, coupled 
with the experience of Lamprell’s 
management and staff, will provide a 
strong platform for further successes  
in 2010.
Jonathan Silver
Chairman 
Lamprell plc
Lamprell delivers “Seajacks Kraken” 
the first self elevating, self propelled 
Liftboat to Seajacks. This is the first of 
two harsh environment, new build 
projects undertaken at our Jebel Ali facility. 
The Kraken was successfully delivered on 
schedule in March 2009.
Lamprell delivers newbuild jack up 
rig “Offshore Freedom” to owners 
Scorpion. The delivery marks the first of 
two LeTourneau designed Super 116E 
rigs that Lamprell are contracted to 
deliver to Scorpion Offshore. The rig has 
a water depth operating capability of 350 
feet and can drill to a depth of 30,000 
feet, with luxury quarters for 110 crew.
Lamprell delivers “Seajacks 
Leviathan” the second self elevating, 
self propelled Liftboat to Seajacks. 
Intended for use in harsh environment 
conditions. Both of the Seajacks vessels 
were detailed designed and constructed 
by Lamprell’s to meet the strenuous 
Northern European Offshore 
Construction Codes and practices. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
06
Chief 
Executive 
Officer’s 
Statement
“Lamprell’s combined strengths of prudent 
cost management and operational excellence 
has enabled us to deliver a solid revenue 
performance set against a backdrop of 
challenging operating conditions which are 
universally acknowledged to have been the 
most difficult in a generation.”
Nigel McCue, Chief Executive Officer
As expected, 2009 proved to be a 
turbulent year for global markets. The 
financial crisis led to lower oil and gas 
prices, a severe, and continuing, 
disruption of the worldwide credit market 
and overall economic uncertainty which 
has led to lower capital investment by our 
clients in all sectors of our business. It is 
pleasing, therefore, under these 
circumstances, to be able to report a very 
solid annual performance for the 
Company, with revenues of USD 426 
million resulting in a net profit of USD 54 
million, restated to USD 28 million after 
one-off charges in respect of one, 
previously announced, project.
We have always sought to run our 
business conservatively without any 
long-term debt. Never before has the 
importance of a strong balance sheet and 
a rigorous approach to cost control in all 
facets of our business been so important 
to the Company. Lamprell’s combined 
strengths of prudent cost management 
and operational excellence has enabled 
us to deliver a solid revenue performance 
set against a backdrop of challenging 
operating conditions which are universally 
acknowledged to have been the most 
difficult in a generation.
Throughout the Company’s history, the 
quality of our project execution has 
underpinned our longstanding client 
relationships and resulted in a significant 
amount of repeat business, and we remain 
committed to achieving the highest 
standards of excellence for our customers. It 
is the source of much pride that even against 
the extremely volatile backdrop of the last 18 
months we have been able to maintain our 
benchmark of engineering quality, delivering 
projects on time and on budget.
USD 426m
Revenues
USD 28m
Net profit Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
07
Business overview
“Throughout the Company’s history, 
the quality of our project execution has 
underpinned our longstanding client 
relationships and resulted in a significant 
amount of repeat business, and we remain 
committed to achieving the highest standards 
of excellence for our customers.”
In this regard, 2009 saw the completion 
of projects that I believe reinforce our 
reputation for delivery as well as opening 
up opportunities with the potential for 
significant growth for the Company in the 
coming years.
In our EPC business March and June 
respectively saw the delivery of two harsh 
environment, self-propelled, self-elevating 
liftboats, the Kraken and the Leviathan, to 
Seajacks for use in the North Sea wind 
farm market. The successful completion of 
these significant contracts ideally positions 
us to take advantage of forthcoming 
opportunities in the much publicised 
expansion of the European, and 
worldwide, offshore wind farm market. The 
recent prestigious contract award for the 
construction of two highly sophisticated 
wind farm installation liftboats for Fred 
Olsen Windcarrier AS in February 2010 
further underpins our confidence in  
this sector.
In April 2009 the new build LeTourneau 
Super 116E jackup drilling rig, Offshore 
Freedom, was delivered to Scorpion, on 
time and on budget. The construction of 
the second unit, Offshore Mischief, is on 
schedule and on budget for delivery in 
the second quarter 2010.
We were also pleased to have resolved 
the outstanding payment issue relating to 
the tender assist drilling barge, BassDrill 
Alpha, being built for BassDrill. Lamprell 
delivered its first new build tender assist 
drilling barge, BassDrill Alpha, in January 
2010. The company received cash 
payment of USD 55 million and 28 million 
shares in BassDrill, which represented 
20% of the equity of BassDrill, equivalent 
at the subscription price of USD 0.1786  
to USD 5 million and subject to an  
option agreement.
Future Developments
As previously reported, capital 
expenditure on the expansion of our new 
250,000m² facility in the Hamriyah Free 
Zone was phased in light of the prevailing 
economic conditions. Notwithstanding 
this, we have already felt the benefit of the 
additional capacity which the new yard 
provides. Despite the slowdown in the 
development of the facility earlier last 
year, the quayside at the new facility has 
been in partial use since April 2009 when 
the first jackup rig and since then the 
facility has seen a further 13 rigs at the 
quayside. In addition the Offshore 
Freedom new build jackup was 
completed and delivered at the quayside 
of our new facility. We now look forward 
to a number of rig upgrade and 
refurbishment projects being executed at 
this facility in 2010.
The Company continues to pursue new 
opportunities that the expanded site 
allows, such as those relating to the 
construction and refurbishment of 
semi-submersible drilling rigs, and 
drillship refurbishment, supporting the 
overall strategic and commercial 
reasoning behind the Company’s 
decision to build greater capacity.
Given the overall strengthening in the 
markets we have recently committed to a 
further capital expenditure programme of 
USD 25 million to complete the 
development of the facility by early 2011. 
This funding will provide for the 
completion of an 800 man office block, 
additional workshops, fabrication pads 
and utility distribution infrastructure.
Market Overview
The new build market for liftboats for 
offshore wind turbine installation provides 
Lamprell with an opportunity to establish 
itself as an early leader in a growing 
market. The success of the UK 
Government’s recent offshore wind farm 
licensing round in January 2010 
reinforced the international interest in the 
offshore sector; the current constraint on 
liftboat capacity means we are well 
placed to capitalise on the construction 
opportunities this presents. Accordingly 
this area represents a significant 
proportion of our bidding pipeline.
Our recently announced contract award 
to design and construct two offshore well 
head platforms for an offshore gas field 
development in India represents a 
successful step to secure more work in 
this sector.
As outlined previously, the new build 
market for jack-up rigs continues to be 
constrained by existing capacity, new 
build rigs entering the market for the first 
time together with the ongoing impact of 
budget cuts arising from the oil price 
collapse eighteen months ago.
We previously reported that we 
anticipated seeing the regional rig 
refurbishment market dip in the light of 
the economic conditions and whilst we 
saw the level of rig activity exceed our 
expectations, the level of expenditure 
decreased, as expected, as a result of the 
market conditions. Both our Sharjah and 
new Hamriyah facilities were busy 
throughout the year undertaking upgrade 
and refurbishment projects. In total 33 
jackup rigs projects were undertaken, 
including two jackups at our Sattahip 
facility in Thailand. There are currently 
nine jackup rigs at our UAE facilities and 
we look forward to a busy year in this 
area of our business. We continue to 
expand our services to clients who 
require work to be undertaken outside of 
our own yards. A case in point being 
Transocean who awarded Lamprell the 
contract for the upgrade and  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
08
Chief 
Executive 
Officer’s 
Statement
(continued)
refurbishment of the Key Manhattan 
jackup drilling unit. This project was 
undertaken in Croatia by Lamprell at the 
Nauta Lamjana shipyard. The initial 
contract value was USD 13.4 million and 
the work scope includes extensive steel 
renewals and associated painting works, 
structural repairs to the cantilever and 
derrick, and the replacement of hull 
piping systems. The work commenced 
during September 2009 and was 
completed in March 2010.
In the FPSO market, Saipem, one of 
Lamprell’s key customers, awarded a 
USD 18.1 million contract for the 
construction of six process modules, 
pipe-rack sections and interconnecting 
pipe spools for the Aquila Phase 2 FPSO 
Project. The modules will be constructed 
at our Jebel Ali facility and are scheduled 
to be completed in November 2010. We 
are presently seeing a slow recovery in 
this sector of our business which had 
seen a significant decline due to low 
commodity prices and the effects of the 
global financial crisis.
Activities relating to land rigs have 
continued and we were pleased to deliver 
four new build API 2000 HP fast moving 
land rigs during 2009. In addition to the 
new build projects we also successfully 
worked on a number of land rig 
refurbishment and rotary equipment 
repair projects. There have been a 
number of land rigs which have been 
temporarily laid up during 2009, reflecting 
a lower oil price and the impact of the 
worldwide financial uncertainty, and the 
period of this slow down in land rig 
activity extended further than we 
originally anticipated. However, because 
of the regional dynamics of the Middle 
Eastern market, we anticipate a recovery 
in land drilling activities in the Middle East 
in 2010 and this provides management 
with confidence that both the 
refurbishment and new build land rig 
markets will recover in the region and will 
be attractive for Lamprell for some years 
to come.
The Board
As previously advised, in March 2009, 
Jonathan Silver was appointed Non-
Executive Chairman of the Board. I took 
over as CEO from Peter Whitbread in May 
of 2009 and would like to thank Peter, 
who continued on the Board as the 
Director of International Development, for 
making the transition as smooth and 
efficient as possible. Peter has decided to 
retire at the time of the AGM and I would 
like to take this opportunity to express my 
further thanks for the enormous 
contribution he has made to the growth 
and success of the Company over the 
past 18 years.
Dividend
The Board of Directors is recommending 
a final dividend payment of 3.80 cents per 
ordinary share, with a Sterling equivalent 
of 2.55 pence per ordinary share. This will 
be payable, when approved, on 16 June 
2010 to eligible shareholders on the 
register at 14 May 2010.
Outlook
Despite the challenging market backdrop, 
2010 has started positively, as evidenced 
by the major contract awards announced 
in the first quarter of the year. We have a 
substantial order book extending into 
2012 and this combined with our tender 
pipeline, development strategy and the 
ongoing expansion of our facilities 
supports our confidence for future growth 
and success.
Whilst we are seeing positive signs and 
evidence of improvements in our markets 
they currently continue to remain 
3.80 cents
Dividend (per ordinary share)
“We continue to expand our services to 
clients who require work to be undertaken 
outside of our own yards.” Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
09
Business overview
competitive. With our shareholders in 
mind, it is therefore a priority for 
management to remain focussed on 
pro-actively managing the Company’s 
cost base and ensuring first class project 
execution. We remain confident that our 
long-term prospects continue to be 
promising based upon our strong 
platform for growth.
I would like to take this opportunity to 
express the thanks and appreciation of 
the Board of Directors, and my personal 
thanks, to all of our management and 
employees for their support and efforts 
throughout a challenging 2009. In 
addition, I would finally like to thank our 
founder and President of the Company, 
Steven Lamprell, for his continuing 
support, which is very much appreciated.
Nigel McCue
Chief Executive Officer
“We remain confident that our long-term 
prospects continue to be promising based 
upon our strong platform for growth.” Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
10
Continuous growth as the 
construction at the new facility 
in Hamriyah progresses and 
our Thailand operation gains 
momentum.
Growth Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
11
Construction of the new facility at Hamriyah 
continues and is planned for completion in 
quarter 1, 2011. When completed the new 
facility will have a developed area of 
250,000m² with a deepwater berthing quay 
wall 1,250m in length and 9m deep. This 
will enable Lamprell to work on up to 10 
rigs simultaneously and construct up to 
three new build jackups. 
The Company signed an initial five year lease for a 
46,950m² facility with 158m of exclusive deep water 
quayside in Sattahip, Thailand in May 2008. The first 
revenue generating project was undertaken in the first 
quarter of 2009, which has been followed by further 
refurbishment work during the year.  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
12
Diversifying our core offering 
continues to be a key focus.  
A number of engineering,  
procurement and construction 
contracts have been successfully 
completed during the year.
Diversification Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
13
The construction of the BassDrill Alpha 
tender assist drilling unit for BassDrill Limited 
was successfully delivered in January 2010. 
Large scale engineering, procurement and 
construction of drilling and rig related 
equipment continues to be  a key 
component of our future growth strategy. 
Diversification
The successful delivery in March 2009 of the Seajacks 
Kraken was followed by the delivery of the Offshore 
Freedom in April 2009 and the Seajacks Leviathan in 
June 2009, reinforcing our belief in business based on 
commitment to quality, price and delivery schedule. The 
exploration into new business streams, in areas such as 
wind farms, floating desalinisation plants and power 
barges, to which many of Lamprell’s skills and technical 
capabilities are transferable, continues as the potential, 
particularly in fields such as alternative energy gains 
momentum. The contract award for two new award self 
elevating and self propelled offshore wind turbine 
installation vessels from Fred Olsen Windcarrier AS 
supports this strategy.  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
14
Service
Customer satisfaction with 
regard to quality, delivery 
and cost remains as the core 
of our operating philosophy. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
15
Every project undertaken is supported by 
superior customer service and this along 
with our philosophy of project execution 
on time and on budget to high industry 
standards has lead to high levels of 
repeat business. 
We constantly strive to improve upon our exacting 
standards Many of our customers have been working 
with us over many years which is testament to our 
quality control and service culture. 
We carry out project reviews upon completion of projects 
such that improvements to customer service can be 
implemented for future projects.
  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
16
Our Strategy
Our strategy is centred on sustainable, 
profitable growth. In delivering this strategy 
our main aim is to secure value enhancement 
for our shareholders and other stakeholders. 
We use financial and non-financial KPI’s to 
measure our success in the delivery of our 
strategy and the management of our business.
Maintaining a leading 
position in the  
EPC market
Maintaining a focus on 
repeat business and 
continued expansion  
of services 
Investment in a new 
facility in Hamriyah  
Free Zone 
Continuing to expand 
its client base  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
17
Business overview
Objectives: Performance:
–  Focus on maintaining relations with all  
market participants
– Expansion of facilities and service offering
– Transfer of skills to new regions
–  Investment in capital equipment to improve  
service levels 
During 2009 we successfully completed and delivered three 
EPC projects. These deliveries demonstrate our commitment 
to delivery on time and on budget and support our ongoing 
objective of securing additional EPC projects. In February 2010 
we were awarded contracts by Fred Olsen Windcarrier AS to 
build two Gusto MSC NG-9000 design self elevating and self 
propelled offshore wind turbine installation vessels.
Objectives: Performance:
– Differentiated service offering
–  Focus on quality, timeliness of delivery and price 
competitiveness
– Expansion of offering to include major EPC projects
– Focus on achieving leading HSE standards
– Focus on quality assurance and quality control
–  Expansion of engineering services to include 
detailed design 
Lamprell values its relationship with all its clients, many of 
which have worked with Lamprell on a repeat basis for a 
number of years. This repeat business is founded on a client 
focused approach to business and to ensuring that all work is 
executed under the highest safety standards and to high quality 
standards. In 2009 this strategy resulted in contract awards 
from a number of repeat customers in various segments, 
including jackup drilling rig upgrade and refurbishment and 
the construction of process modules.
Objectives: Performance:
– Production focused design
– Emphasis on operating efficiency
–  Yard layout and quayside design focused on rig  
related operations
–  Increased capacity to accommodate multiple  
new build projects
– Improved staff welfare facilities
– Focus on semi-automated processes
 
The development of the fist phase of our Hamriyah facility 
progressed greatly in 2009. The dredging and quaywall works 
were completed and the on-site development of our first office 
building and production workshops is on schedule. In addition 
several open fabrication pads were completed. In early 2010 
we approved the budget for phase two of the development.
Objectives: Performance:
– Maintain customer focus
– Broad service offering
– International marketing in multiple sectors
– Transfer of skills to alternative energy markets
– Strategic marketing across sectors
 
Our international marketing effort continued throughout 2009 
and resulted in Lamprell securing new clients in new sectors. 
The most prominent of awards flowing from these efforts were 
secured early in 2010 from Fred Olsen Windcarrier AS and a 
leading oil and gas operator in India who awarded Lamprell, 
under a consortium agreement, a contract to design and 
construct two offshore wellhead platforms for an offshore 
gas development in India.  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
18
Operating 
Review
“In addition to our attention on project 
execution there has also been a significant 
focus throughout 2009 on the reduction of 
operating costs and this has resulted in the 
streamlining of some aspects of our 
operation to improve efficiency.”
From an operational perspective Lamprell 
had a successful year in 2009, with all 
operating facilities working on a wide 
range of different projects.
During the year Lamprell has continued to 
focus on maintaining its high standards of 
project execution with particular attention 
on safety, maintaining high quality 
standards and delivering projects both on 
time and on budget to all our customers. 
This focus has ensured that Lamprell has 
not only maintained and indeed 
strengthened its relationships with its 
existing customers, but also added new 
customers to our expanding client base. 
In addition to our attention on project 
execution there has also been a 
significant focus throughout 2009 on the 
reduction of operating costs and this has 
resulted in the streamlining of some 
aspects of our operation to improve 
efficiency. This process will continue 
throughout 2010.
During the year Lamprell has continued to 
focus on the execution of EPC new build 
projects, including the construction of 
jackup drilling rigs, liftboats and a tender 
assist drilling unit, whilst continuing our 
traditional rig refurbishment and 
fabrication projects for the offshore oil 
and gas sector. During 2009 we 
successfully delivered our first EPC 
projects and continued to progress other 
projects for delivery in 2010.
The principal markets in which Lamprell 
operates, and the principal services 
provided are:
EPC new build construction of jackup  −
drilling rigs, liftboats and tender assist 
drilling units;
upgrade and refurbishment of offshore  −
jackup rigs;
new build construction for the offshore  −
oil and gas sector; and,
oilfield engineering services, including  −
the upgrade and refurbishment of 
land rigs.
The operational aspects of these business 
activities are reviewed as follows:
Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction
Throughout 2009 Lamprell continued the 
construction of and delivered a range of 
major EPC new build projects. These 
projects were executed at both our Jebel 
Ali and Hamriyah Free Zone facilities.
Seajacks liftboats
In 2009 we completed the construction of 
two harsh environment special purpose 
self-propelled four legged jackup liftboats 
for Seajacks. These turnkey contracts 
were awarded in January 2007 and 
covered all aspects of project execution 
from design to delivery. The first unit, the 
Seajacks Kraken, was delivered in March 
2009 and the second unit, the Seajacks 
Leviathan, was delivered to Seajacks in 
June 2009. Both projects were completed 
on time and on budget.
Scorpion S116E jackup drilling rigs
Throughout 2009 construction continued 
at Lamprell’s Hamriyah facility on the 
Offshore Freedom and Offshore Mischief 
LeTourneau design S116E jackup drilling 
rigs for Scorpion.
The Offshore Freedom was delivered in 
April 2009 and is now working for the 
Al-Khafji Joint Operation in the Saudi 
Arabia and Kuwait ex neutral zone.
The Offshore Mischief hull was launched 
using Lamprell’s semi-submersible barge, 
Hamriyah Pride, in November 2009 and 
the rig is scheduled for final delivery to 
Scorpion in April 2010.
USD 61.8m
Gross profit
Chris Hand, Chief Operating Officer La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
19
Business review
BassDrill tender assist drilling unit
The construction of the BassDrill Alpha 
tender assist drilling unit for BassDrill 
continued at our Jebel Ali facility 
throughout 2009. In October 2009 we 
launched the tender assist vessel using 
Lamprell’s semi-submersible barge, 
Hamriyah Pride. The modular mast 
equipment package was installed and 
commissioned in December 2009 and 
the unit was successfully delivered to 
BassDrill in January 2010.
Upgrade and refurbishment of 
offshore jackup rigs
During 2009 Lamprell executed 
refurbishment and upgrade works on a 
total of 33 jackup rigs. The rigs, owned by 
a wide range of international drilling 
contractors including National Drilling 
Company, Ensco Offshore International 
Company, Nabors Drilling International 
Limited, Noble International Limited, RDC 
Arabia Drilling Inc. and Atwood Oceanics 
Pacific LTD, were berthed at our Sharjah, 
Hamriyah and Thailand facilities.
Refurbishment and upgrade projects 
such as these vary greatly in scope from 
project to project and depend on the 
existing condition of each rig and the 
owner’s upgrade requirements. A minor 
project can have a work schedule lasting 
a few days, whereas a major upgrade 
project with a significant engineering 
requirement can last for 12 months or 
more. Typical upgrade and refurbishment 
projects include some of the following 
work scopes:
leg extensions and/or strengthening; −
conversion of slot rigs to cantilever mode; −
living quarters extension, upgrade and  −
refurbishment;
engine replacement and repower works; −
mud process system upgrade and/or  −
refurbishment;
helideck replacement, upgrade and/or  −
refurbishment; and,
Lamprell provides a wide range of 
engineering services to its clients. These 
services are produced using 3D drafting and 
analytical software and include concept 
engineering, basic design, detailed and 
construction engineering and the production 
of as-built drawings. In addition the 
engineering group provide project 
commissioning assistance and liaise with 
various third party authorities who certify 
that Lamprell’s engineering meets the 
relevant standard.
Lamprell Engineering Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
20
Operating 
Review
(continued)
condition-driven refurbishment,  −
including structural steel and piping 
replacement and painting.
The jackup rig upgrade and refurbishment 
projects carried out in 2009 included:
Noble Roy Rhodes
The rig, which was working for Dubai 
Petroleum, arrived at our Sharjah facility 
in March 2009 for an extensive upgrade 
and refurbishment program. The work 
scopes on this project included a 
cantilever extension, the extension of the 
rig legs from 344 feet to 410 feet and the 
extension of the rigs living quarters to 
accommodate 120 personnel. In addition 
some of the rigs drilling equipment was 
replaced and condition driven work 
including hull steel replacement and 
piping renewals were carried out.
Ensco 53
The Ensco 53 arrived at Lamprell’s 
Sharjah facility in October 2008 after 
completing a continuous four year drilling 
program in India. Following the 
completion of a detailed condition survey 
an extensive scope of work was 
executed. This included the replacement 
of approximately five hundred tonnes of 
hull steel, an accommodation upgrade 
and extensive hull painting. The works 
were completed in April 2009 and the rig 
returned to India to undertake a contract 
with British Gas.
Transocean Key Manhattan
In addition to the rigs refurbished at our 
UAE facilities, Lamprell was awarded a 
contract by Transocean to refurbish the 
Key Manhattan at the Nauta Lamjana d.d. 
shipyard in Croatia. The rig arrived at the 
shipyard in September 2009 with a major 
upgrade and refurbishment work scope, 
including condition driven works such as 
hull steel replacement and piping 
renewals, as well as accommodation 
refurbishment and rig repainting. The 
work was successfully completed in 
March 2010.
Offsite and other services
In addition to major refurbishment 
projects we also undertook a wide range 
of minor projects including the supply of 
engineering services, procurement 
activities and various smaller rig 
refurbishment projects carried out on 
board rigs whilst they remain in operation. 
These projects do not account for a large 
proportion of revenue but they provide a 
critical service to our customers and 
reflect Lamprell’s flexible approach to 
servicing our clients needs.
New build construction for the 
offshore oil and gas sector
Our Jebel Ali facility has been working  
on a variety of major projects during 2009 
for clients including SBM, Saipem and 
Master Marine ASA. These projects all 
require the utilisation of our state-of-the-art 
facility as well as high levels of project 
management control to ensure that safety 
and quality standards are maintained whilst 
keeping a strong focus on timely delivery.
The Jebel Ali facility undertakes a range 
of different new build construction 
projects which in 2009 included:
FPSO process modules
Saipem Livorno
In May 2008 Lamprell was awarded  
a contract by Saipem to construct two 
units for the Livorno Floating Storage 
Regasification Unit. The project 
fabrication phase started in March 2009 
and through the year Lamprell has been 
working on the main regasification 
module which weighs over 2,100 tonnes 
and the smaller nitrogen module which 
weighs 350 tonnes. The modules are 
scheduled to be completed and delivered 
in April 2010.
“We ended 2009 with 4,515 permanent 
staff in the Company.” Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
21
Business review
Master Marine Spud Cans
In February 2009 the Norwegian company 
Master Marine ASA awarded Lamprell a 
contract to build four add-on footings (“Spud 
Cans”) for their service jackup Service Jack 
1. The combined fabrication weight of the 
four spud cans is 2,600 tonnes and the 
completed structures were delivered in 
March 2010.
Oilfield Engineering Services
Lamprell’s Oilfield Engineering operation, 
located within our main Jebel Ali facility, 
executed contracts throughout 2009 for a 
variety of clients including LTDS, Nabors 
Drilling, KCA Deutag and Ensign. Projects 
executed during 2009 included the 
completion of four fast moving land rigs for 
LTDS, the upgrade and refurbishment of 
land rigs, as well as the inspection and 
overhaul of mechanical and rotary 
equipment. In addition to these projects, 
we also executed a number of minor offsite 
projects to assist our clients by providing 
our services on location at drilling sites.
Human resources
Attracting, developing and retaining talented 
staff is of paramount importance to the 
success of Lamprell as a business. At 
Lamprell we consider our employees to be 
our greatest asset and the continuous 
development and multi-skilling of our staff 
remains a focus for our success. The Human 
Resources (“HR”) Department has 
developed policies and best practices for 
effective employee management enabling 
managers to capitalise on the strengths of 
the employees and their ability to contribute 
to the accomplishment of work. It is 
recognised that successful employee 
management helps employee motivation, 
development, and retention.
As a result of the general slowdown in 
economic activity during 2009 we shifted 
our focus carefully to capacity utilisation. 
We managed excess capacity by releasing 
local labour supply and contractors 
previously hired during high demand 
periods and thereby keeping our 
redundancy rate to a minimum. This 
demonstrates the importance placed by the 
Company on retaining its core workforce. 
We are now in the process of recruitment 
following recent project awards.
Lamprell continues to provide purpose-built 
accommodation and transportation for the 
labour force and this enhances our ability to 
attract and retain our workforce, and 
dramatically improves the quality and work/
life balance expectations of the employees.
We aim to provide a safe and supportive 
work environment to our employees, who 
are from diverse cultural backgrounds, 
and to do so in an environment that 
provides a competitive compensation 
programme that is affordable to the 
Company. We believe this continues to be 
our market differentiator and will 
strengthen our position as an “employer 
of choice” into 2010 and beyond.
The HR department continues to work 
closely with senior business leaders on 
strategy execution, in particular designing 
HR systems and processes that address 
strategic business issues, organisational 
and people capability-building, longer term 
resource and talent management planning.
General recruitment
Recruitment has commenced due to recent 
awarded projects. We ended 2009 with 
4,515 permanent staff in the Company 
which equates to a 17.1% decrease in 
headcount as a result of cost control 
measures undertaken in 2009. Our search 
for new and talented staff is a continual 
process as a result of the competitive 
market in which the Company operates. As 
a result of the growth Lamprell has 
experienced in recent years and also recent 
contract awards, we aim to recruit staff with 
the requisite skills and professional 
experience to add value to the Company 
and the service which we offer to our 
clients. This is particularly so in the areas of 
engineering and project management, 
where we clearly differentiate ourselves 
from our competitors.
Operating facilities
In accordance with our strategy to grow 
the business organically, we maintained 
our capital investment program 
throughout 2009. The aim of this 
investment is to increase our capacity, 
raise our existing levels of productivity 
and improve the working environment for 
both yard and administrative personnel. 
The main area of investment in 2009 has 
been the continued development of our 
250,000m
2
 facility in the Hamriyah free 
zone. The marine work including dredging 
and quay wall construction was 
completed in 2009 as were the 
construction of a number of concrete 
fabrication areas. In addition the initial 240 
man office block and CNC/fabrication 
workshops are also nearing completion. It 
is anticipated that the facility will be 
substantially complete by the end of 
2010. In addition, we continued to 
develop our facility in Sattahip, Thailand 
during 2009. This development included 
completing the outfitting of the 3,000 m
2
 
workshop and investment in additional 
fabrication equipment.
Chris Hand
Chief Operating Officer
“In accordance with our strategy to grow the 
business organically, we maintained our 
capital investment program throughout 2009.” Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
22
Risk Factors
Risk factors
As an oil and gas related business with 
current operations concentrated in the 
United Arab Emirates and Thailand, the 
Company is, by virtue of the nature of its 
business and the countries in which it 
operates, subject to a variety of business 
risks. Outlined below is a description of 
the principal risk factors that may affect 
the Group’s business. Such risk factors 
are not intended to be presented in any 
assumed order of priority. 
Any of the risks and uncertainties 
discussed in this document, could have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s 
business. In addition, the risks set out 
below may not be exhaustive and 
additional risks and uncertainties, not 
presently known to the Company, or 
which the Company currently deems 
immaterial, may arise or become material 
in the future. In particular, the Company’s 
performance might be affected by 
changes in market and/or economic 
Business risks
The Company is subject to counterparty 
credit risk;
The Group’s growth in the longer term 
may be dependent on the availability of 
financing both for its own future projects 
and for its customers;
Demand for the Company’s services 
may be adversely impacted by a fall in 
the levels of expenditure by oil and 
gas companies;
If the Company is unable to find any 
customers for whom to construct a new 
build jackup rig it has purchased in kit 
form, it may suffer a loss on the 
significant expenditure it has already 
incurred and that which it is contractually 
obliged to make;
On certain projects, the Company 
operates on the basis of lump sum 
contracts and is therefore subject to 
financial risk if it fails to operate within 
budget. The Company may also be 
subject to liquidated damages payments 
if it fails to complete its contracts on time;
The Company is dependent on a relatively 
small number of contracts at any given 
time, many of which are for the same 
customers;
The Company operates on a project-by-
project basis for EPC contracts and it 
does not have long-term commitments 
with the majority of its customers, which 
may cause its visible order book to 
fluctuate significantly;
The Company’s visible order book for 
upgrade and refurbishment work is 
usually relatively short and can 
fluctuate significantly;
The Company’s revenues, cash flow 
and earnings may vary in any period 
depending on a number of factors, 
including its performance on 
major contracts;
The Group may be affected by the 
actions of third parties, including sub-
contractors and manufacturers; 
The Company may be adversely affected 
by inflation and rising labour costs; 
The Company operates in a highly 
competitive industry and its ability to 
compete successfully depends on its 
ability to provide and service high quality 
products and systems;
The Company may not be able to 
manage its growth effectively;
The Company operates in markets where 
legal systems are still developing and 
which do not offer the certainty or 
predictability of legal systems in 
mature markets;
The Company is subject to a variety of 
local and federal regulations in the UAE 
and Thailand; and,
Certain countries in which the Company’s 
customers operate have experienced 
armed conflict or terrorism. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
23
Business review
conditions and in legal, regulatory and tax 
requirements. Additionally, there may be 
risks of which the Board is not aware or 
believes to be immaterial which may,  
in the future, adversely affect the  
Group’s business.
The management conducts an  
annual risk assessment and review  
and wherever possible effort is made  
to mitigate risks or transfer risks through 
purchase of insurance. 
Human resources risks The Company faces significant 
challenges in attracting and retaining 
sufficient numbers of skilled personnel;
The Company depends on the 
performance of its President, Directors, 
Senior Managers and other essential 
employees and if it loses any of these key 
personnel, its business may be impaired; 
and,
The Company’s ability to perform its 
contractual obligations may be adversely 
affected by work stoppages and other 
labour problems.
Liability risks The Company could be subject to 
substantial liability claims due to the 
hazardous nature of its business;
Liability to customers under warranties 
may materially and adversely affect the 
Company’s earnings;
The Company’s business is subject to 
risks resulting from product defects, faulty 
workmanship or errors in design as well as 
warranty claims and other liabilities;
The Company may be involved in litigation 
in the future; and,
The Company conducts its business 
within an increasingly strict environmental 
and health and safety regime and may be 
exposed to potential liabilities and 
increased compliance costs.
Taxation risks Changes in the fiscal regime of the UAE 
or Thailand could adversely impact the 
financial condition of the Group.
Hazards Hazards constitute perils such as fire and 
flood. Hazards are managed through 
prevention, mitigation, continuity planning 
and risk transfer through the purchase 
of insurance.
Financial risks An analysis of the financial risks can be 
found on pages 73 to 74.
Risks relating to the ordinary shares 
in the Company
The Company’s reporting currency is 
different to the currency in which 
dividends will be paid; 
Lamprell Holdings Ltd, the principal 
shareholder, whose interests may conflict 
with the interests of other shareholders 
and investors, holds a significant 
shareholding in the Company;
The Group may, in the longer term, seek 
to raise further funds through the issue of 
additional shares or other securities.  
Any funds raised in this way may have a 
dilutive effect on existing shareholdings, 
particularly in circumstances in which a 
non pre-emptive issue is made, or where 
shareholders do not take up their rights 
to subscribe for shares as part of a 
pre-emptive issue; and,
Pre-emptive rights may not be available to 
US holders. Scott Doak, Chief Financial Officer
Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
24
Financial 
Review
“The gross margin reduction largely reflects 
the price discount on the EPC project, 
however, excluding this discount, the gross 
margin was 18.9% reflecting a strong 
performance and has largely arisen from 
better margins achieved on the completion of 
the three main EPC projects completed in the 
first half of the year.”
Group revenue decreased by 42.6% to 
USD 425.5 million (2008: USD 740.8 
million) reflecting a lower level of activity 
from the prior year. This decrease was 
largely driven by a significant reduction in 
revenue generated from EPC projects as 
three major projects were delivered in 
2009, including one new build jackup and 
two new build liftboats. The reduction 
also resulted from an adjustment to 
revenue arising from a price discount 
given on the completion of a self erecting 
tender assist drilling unit for BassDrill 
amounting to USD 23 million. Revenue 
from other key activities reflected a solid 
performance but generally was lower 
than 2008 as the current year reflected a 
lower level of jackup rig upgrade and 
refurbishment revenue, where a higher 
level of rig activity was achieved in the 
facilities but with generally a lower level of 
average expenditure. The offshore new 
build activity, based in Jebel Ali, also 
reflected a lower level of revenue for the 
year with major 2008 projects largely 
being completed in the first half of the 
year and no significant new projects 
commencing until the second quarter of 
2009. Revenue from Oilfield Engineering 
services, related to the refurbishment and 
construction of land rigs and land camps, 
reflected revenues from the construction 
of four new build fast moving land rigs 
under a contract with LTDS. Revenue 
includes the results of Inspec with 
revenue growth resulting from a 
significant increase in the demand for the 
inspection and non-destructive testing 
services the subsidiary provides.
Gross profit decreased by 52.2% to 
USD 61.8 million (2008: USD 129.3 
million) resulting in a gross margin of 
14.5% (2008: 17.5%). The decrease in 
14.2 cents
Diluted earnings per share La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
25
Financial review
gross profit is largely due to the lower 
level of revenue achieved during the year 
across key business areas and also the 
adjustment to revenue arising from the 
price discount on the tender assist drilling 
unit. The gross margin reduction largely 
reflects the price discount on the EPC 
project, however, excluding this discount, 
the gross margin was 18.9% reflecting a 
strong performance and has largely 
arisen from better margins achieved on 
the completion of the three main EPC 
projects completed in the first half of the 
year. The year reflected a lower level of 
higher margin rig refurbishment activity 
than the prior year and a lower level  
of major offshore construction new  
build activities undertaken in the  
Jebel Ali facility.
EBITDA decreased to USD 41.2 million 
(2008: USD 92.3 million) a reduction of 
55.4% over the prior year. EBITDA margin 
for the year was 9.7% (2008: 12.5%) 
reflecting the decrease in operating 
margin. Prior to charging exceptional 
costs for the prior year, EBITDA 
amounted to USD 102.3 million with an 
EBITDA margin of 13.8%.
Operating profit in 2009 was USD 27.9 
million (2008: USD 82.5 million) reflecting 
a decrease of 66.2%. This decrease 
reflects a lower level of activity in the 
current year and also the price discount 
on the EPC project. The prior year reflects 
exceptional charges for share-based 
payments of USD 6.6 million related to 
shares granted at the time of the 
admission of Lamprell plc to AIM and also 
reflects various legal and professional 
charges amounting to USD 3.4 million 
incurred in connection with the admission 
of Lamprell plc to the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange plc.
Results for the year from operations
     2009 2008 
     USD ’000 USD ’000
Revenue     425,518 740,831
Gross profit     61,849 129,303
EBITDA     41,179 92,308
Operating profit     27,903 82,462
Net profit     28,423 85,455
The operating profit margin decreased 
from 11.1% in 2008 to 6.6% in 2009 
largely reflecting a lower gross margin as 
a result of the price discount adjustment, 
and also the lower level of absorption of 
selling, general and administration 
charges reflecting the reduction in 
revenue despite the cost control 
programs implemented during the year. In 
addition, other charges reflect the 
provision of USD 2.5 million against the 
BassDrill equity received as part of the 
settlement of the BassDrill tender assist 
drilling unit. The operating profit for the 
prior year before exceptional charges 
amounted to USD 92.5 million reflecting 
an operating margin before exceptional 
charges of 12.5%.
As a result of the lower revenue in the 
year and the price discount adjustment 
offset by lower selling, general and 
administration expenses, net profit 
decreased by 66.7% to USD 28.4 million 
(2008: USD 85.5 million). The net margin 
decreased to 6.7% (2008: 11.5%) primarily 
due to the decrease in the Group’s 
operating margin and a decrease in net 
interest income to USD 0.5 million (2008: 
USD 3.0 million) largely reflecting lower 
average deposit rates, lower cash 
balances held by the Group during the 
year and interest expense of USD 0.9 
million largely reflecting interest on 
short-term overdraft facilities used by the 
Group during the year. The net profit for 
the prior year before exceptional charges 
amounted to USD 95.5 million reflecting  
a net margin before exceptional charges 
of 12.9%.
Interest income
Interest income of USD 1.4 million (2008: 
USD 3.0 million) relates mainly to bank 
interest earned on surplus funds 
deposited on a short-term basis with the 
Group’s bankers. The decrease reflects a 
lower level of average deposit rates and 
lower cash balances during the year 
when compared to 2008.
Taxation
The Company, which is incorporated in 
the Isle of Man, has no income tax liability 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 as 
it is taxable at 0% in line with local Isle of 
Man tax legislation. The Group is not 
currently subject to income tax in respect 
of its operations carried out in the United 
Arab Emirates, and does not anticipate 
any liability to income tax arising in the 
foreseeable future. On 4 December 2008, 
Lamprell Asia Limited, was granted Board 
of Investment privileges which allows the 
Company’s wholly owned subsidiary in 
Thailand to operate with a tax exempt 
status for a period of up to eight years. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
26
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share for 2009 
decreased to 14.28 cents (2008: 47.73 
cents). Fully diluted earnings per share for 
2009 decreased to 14.20 cents (2008: 
42.59 cents) reflecting the reduced profit 
of the Group for the year.
Operating cash flow and liquidity
The Group’s net cash flow from operating 
activities for the year reflected a net 
outflow of USD 23.9 million (2008: USD 
18.3 million net inflow). The net cash flow 
from operations was lower than the prior 
year and mainly reflects reduced profit for 
the period and movements in working 
capital, largely comprising an increase in 
inventory, resulting from the receipt of 
stock for a new build jackup, and a 
decrease in trade and other receivables, 
mainly related to amounts due from 
customers on contracts from 
predominantly EPC projects as three 
major projects were completed during the 
year with completion payments received. 
Trade and other payables also reflect a 
decrease largely arising from lower 
amounts due to customers on contracts 
at 31 December 2009 amounting to USD 
20.2 million (2008 USD 72.5 million) which 
includes cash advances due to 
customers of USD 15.6 million (2008: 
USD 32.7 million). Other working capital 
movements reflect timing differences in 
respect to other receivables and also 
supplier commitments primarily on the 
larger EPC contracts.
Investing activities for the year absorbed 
USD 20.1 million (2008: USD 47.9 million) 
as a result of the continued investment in 
property, plant and equipment amounting 
to USD 18.5 million (2008: USD 54.4 
million), largely comprising the purchase 
of operating equipment and investment in 
the new Hamriyah facility and also 
increased deposits of USD 3.8 million. 
This investment activity was offset by 
interest income of USD 1.4 million received 
from surplus funds and also the release of 
margin deposits of USD 0.7 million.
Net cash generated from financing 
activities reflected a net inflow of USD 3.0 
million (2008: USD 29.4 million outflow). 
This represents dividend payments of 
USD 6.3 million (2008: USD 37.5 million) 
and the purchase of treasury shares to 
meet the settlement of share awards to 
certain directors and staff of USD 1.7 
million (2008: USD 2.6 million). This was 
offset by an increase in short-term 
borrowings of USD 11.9 million (2008: 
USD 10.7 million).
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure on property, plant 
and equipment during the year amounted 
to USD 18.5 million (2008: USD 54.4 
million). The main area of expenditure was 
the investment in operating equipment 
amounting to USD 2.9 million to support 
the growth in activities experienced 
during the year and to replace hired 
equipment where this was deemed cost 
effective. Further expenditure on buildings 
and related infrastructure at Group 
facilities amounted to USD 14.4 million, 
including capital work-in-progress, with 
additional committed expenditure 
amounting to USD 18.3 million reflecting 
the development of the infrastructure of 
the Group at all facilities but primarily 
expenditure at the new Hamriyah facility.
Shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity increased from USD 
212.3 million at 31 December 2008 to 
USD 234.8 million at 31 December 2009. 
The movement mainly reflects the 
retained profit for the year of USD 28.4 
million net of dividends declared of USD 
6.3 million. The movement also reflects a 
credit for the accounting for share-based 
USD 18.5m
Capital expenditure
Financial 
Review
(continued) Revenue
USD million
2007 2008 2009
467.3
740.8
425.5
Capex
USD million
2007 2008 2009
15.0
54.4
18.5
Net proﬁt margin
%
2007 2008 2009
15.3
11.5
6.7
EBITDA margin
%
2007 2008 2009
16.0
12.5
9.7
Earnings per share (diluted)
US cents
2007 2008 2009
35.7
42.6
14.2
Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
27
Financial review
payments of USD 1.9 million made to 
certain Directors and employees of the 
Group and charged to General and 
Administrative expenses.
Shareholders’ equity includes a Merger 
reserve amounting to USD 22.4 million that 
was created in the year ended 31 
December 2006 as a result of Lamprell 
plc, on 25 September 2006, entering into 
a share for share exchange agreement 
with LEL and LHL under which it acquired 
100% of the 49,003 shares of LEL from 
LHL in consideration for the issue and 
transfer to LHL of 200 million shares of the 
Company. This acquisition was accounted 
for using the uniting of interests method 
and the difference between the nominal 
value of shares issued by the Company 
(USD 18.7 million) and the nominal value of 
LEL shares acquired (USD 0.082 million) 
was taken to the Merger reserve. In 
addition, during 2006 LEL acquired 100% 
of the legal and beneficial ownership of 
Inspec from LHL for a consideration of 
USD 4 million on 11 September 2006. This 
acquisition was accounted for using the 
uniting of interests method and the 
difference between the purchase 
consideration (USD 4 million) and share 
capital of Inspec (USD 0.15 million) was 
taken to the Merger reserve.
Dividends
For the year ended 31 December 2009, 
the Board of Directors of the Group 
having duly considered the current 
market conditions, profit earned, cash 
generated during the year and taking note 
of the capital commitments for the year 
2010, recommend a final dividend of 
3.80 cents per share. If approved this will 
be paid to shareholders on 16 June 2010 
provided they were on the register on 
14 May 2010.
Scott Doak
Chief Financial Officer Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
28
Corporate  
Social  
Responsibility
A commitment to the local 
community
At Lamprell we recognise the value of 
fulfilling our responsibilities as a corporate 
citizen, believing that by doing so we will 
bring benefits to all our stockholders.
Having been based in Dubai since 1977 , the 
Company is rooted in a community within 
which it has worked for over 30 years and it 
has both benefited from, and been a 
contributor to, that community’s 
development during that period. As a result 
of both this history and the international 
nature of our business, we believe we are 
fortunate to have a local business with a 
genuinely global perspective, and a rich 
variety of cultures and backgrounds from 
which to draw expertise and experience.
Formalising our principles
Our commitment to act as a responsible 
corporate player has long been reflected 
throughout the entire organisation, but 
the Group has formalised this approach 
by creating and implementing a set of 
policies that state the principles by which 
we seek to manage our operational 
activities, work with our staff and host 
communities, and minimise our impact on 
the environment.
Our business, the provision of 
construction services to the oil and gas 
industry, requires the highest standards 
of engineering skill and Health, Safety and 
Environment awareness. Our fundamental 
principle is to carry out these activities in 
a way that delivers the best possible 
product to our customers whilst 
minimising risks and maximising rewards 
to our wider stakeholders.
Accordingly, when we make all our 
investment and operational decisions, we 
take account of the social and 
environmental impacts that they may 
have, and minimising these is a central 
part of our decision-making process.
As a publicly listed company our aim is to 
ensure that our reporting meets all the 
requisite levels of scrutiny for a business 
of our size and areas of activity. 
Maintaining our reputation by aligning our 
commercial goals with our ethical 
standards is an essential part of achieving 
this aim.
Social initiatives
In 2009, we continued to work closely with 
local communities, business partners and 
regulatory authorities to make a positive 
difference within the localities where we 
operate. In particular we at Lamprell are 
aware of the cultural mix of our employees 
with some 80% originating from India.
Don Bosco Snehalaya is a project 
focused on the street children and youth, 
living in the city of Vadodara. With 
Lamprell’s support, the basic objective of 
Snehalaya is to provide shelter to the 
young living on the railway platforms and 
in the streets, and other vulnerable 
children who are in need of care and 
protection. Snehalaya provides food, 
clothes, medicines, recreational facilities, 
counseling, job placement, contact with 
their families, and training in trades 
according to their capacities and 
individual circumstances. They are given 
opportunities to interact with the public, 
to express their potential and their talents. 
This helps them to develop their self 
confidence and the awareness that they 
too can contribute something to society. 
Ultimately, Snehalaya aims at enabling 
these street children to return to a decent 
life within mainstream society.
Lamprell’s training and development 
program called “LEARN2WORK”, 
developed jointly with the DBMA in  La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
29
Financial review
Mumbai, India, was initially set up as a 
training school for potential welders and 
fabricators who would ultimately join the 
Company after qualification. In 2008, 260 
qualified employees joined Lamprell 
further to this scheme.
The “WORK2LIVE” program introduced in 
January 2008 to provide welfare, education 
and support to disadvantaged young 
people in the North West of India was an 
extension to the initial “LEARN2WORK” 
program. The concept of the program is to 
provide sufficient support to the 
disadvantaged such that they will ultimately 
acquire a working skill which will enable 
them to become self sufficient. This broad 
spectrum education and training program 
will ultimately produce better educated and 
skilled members of society who can rise 
above the poverty line and become 
productive members of society. We believe 
that both the wider community and 
Lamprell will benefit. We have the 
advantage of not only providing the financial 
resources to provide this education and 
training but ultimately to provide direct 
employment within our Company.
At the beginning of 2009 the above 
programs, which are related to the 
provision of labour, were suspended due 
to the economic conditions at that time. 
However, this is currently under review 
and the programs may be reintroduced in 
some form during 2010.
People
Attracting, developing and retaining 
talented staff is a major challenge for the 
oil and gas industry and at Lamprell we 
are fortunate to have high quality people 
across the whole range of our services. It 
is therefore vital for our continued 
success that we encourage our staff’s 
personal development and career.
“We believe we are fortunate to have a 
local business with a genuinely global 
perspective, and a rich variety of cultures 
and backgrounds from which to draw 
expertise and experience.”
progression, and treat our people with 
respect, maturity and openness. We also 
invest significantly in building their skill 
sets. We are confident that this approach 
is the one most likely to enable us to 
achieve our business objectives by 
providing quality, continuity and growth. 
Our policy is to ensure equal opportunity 
in career development, promotion, 
training and reward for all of our 
employees. We aim to ensure that all our 
employees understand our business 
goals and our business principles through 
ongoing communications programs.
With a diverse range of nationalities 
working within the Group, we also 
respect and recognise the value of 
different cultures.
Health, safety, environment and 
security summary
Given the nature and demands of our 
business, ensuring a high level of 
performance in Health, Safety, 
Environment and Security is absolutely 
essential, and Lamprell has a strong track 
record in these areas. We are very 
conscious though that there is no room 
for complacency in HSES and we seek to 
improve our performance year-on-year.
Health and safety
Internal measures for health and safety 
performance are very important to ensure 
focus on this area of our business. Our 
aim for 2009 was to maintain and improve 
the developed “safety culture” within the 
organisation, with all staff encouraged to 
report any activities they perceive as not 
conforming to best practice through the 
incentive linked in-house Safety 
Observation Audit Program so that any 
areas of oversight can be rectified and 
brought up to the highest possible 
standard as quickly as possible.
A contributory factor again this year was 
the encouraged use of the now 
centralised reporting system for 
administering first aid treatments. This 
system through the reporting and 
analysing of first aid case trends, 
identified potential areas for LTI.
As a result of this approach, we have 
maintained a strong track record in the 
area of safety. Lamprell has established a 
safety record which is exceptional for the 
oil and gas construction industry and we 
have seen ongoing, progressive 
improvements in these safety figures over 
the past five years.
The facilities individually achieved LTI 
statistics as follows:
  LTI 
  Frequency 
 LTI Rate
Sharjah 3 0.71
Jebel Ali 1 0.29
Hamriyah 3 1.07
LOEF 0 0.00
Thailand 1 3.62
In line with our standardised and 
centralised program, the Lamprell Group 
of companies achieved an overall 
performance LTI frequency Rate of 0.71.
However, whilst our own measurement of 
our safety performance is essential, we 
also recognise the importance of external 
analysis of our methods and have 
achieved relevant accreditation by third 
parties of our capabilities.
In 2009 Lamprell maintained the 
accreditation with the management 
system certificate ISO 14001: 2004 and 
the updated Occupational, Health and 
Safety Assessment Series, OHSAS 
18001: 2007. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
30
In accordance with this update Lamprell 
created and internally promoted the Jebel 
Ali HSE Manager to the newly appointed 
position of Group HSES Manager.
Environment
Across all our activities we seek to 
minimise the mark we leave on the sites 
at which we work. A good example is at 
Hamriyah where, as we expand our 
existing facility, we are seeking ways to 
minimise our impact on the local 
environment and increase our energy 
efficiency and recycling capability.
Throughout our business by delivering 
the best possible product to our 
customers utilising the most up to date 
technologies, we also have a direct 
impact on the environmental performance 
of the rigs we refurbish by improving their 
systems and ensuring they conform to all 
relevant international legislation.
Our policy is to strive to achieve continual 
improvement in environmental 
performance. We are committed to 
preventing pollution and reducing the 
overall impact of our operations on the 
environment. In addition, we maintain an 
internal management structure for the 
management of environmental issues 
which includes clearly defined 
responsibilities for environmental 
management capable of delivering this 
policy commitment.
At all times Lamprell aims to comply with, 
and where possible, exceed applicable legal 
and other requirements relating to the 
organisation. We are also committed to 
monitoring and reporting of our 
environmental performance, setting 
objectives and targets for improvement 
and at all times provide appropriate training 
and awareness programs for our staff. 
Feasibility plans are currently in progress 
to join the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Waste Management Policy
All businesses affect the environment 
through the use of resources and 
discharge of waste products. Our Waste 
Management Policy is therefore 
consistent with our broader 
Environmental Policy, which includes a 
stated commitment to minimise the 
environmental impacts of our operations 
and prevent pollution. Our aim is to limit 
our discharge of waste material wherever 
we can and the policy lays out how we 
seek to achieve this goal.
Security
During this year Lamprell maintained a 
high level of internal and external security 
controls of its assets on behalf of all 
stakeholders. These controls were in the 
form of security procedures, a corporate 
wide security access system and 
continued physical security presence.
Quality
Lamprell aims to achieve maximum 
customer satisfaction and quality of 
product. In the pursuit of this objective 
the Company will comply with all national 
and international standards and 
requirements with respect to quality 
assurance. Lamprell will also strive to 
optimise resources and reduce wastage 
in the development of our facilities and 
training of personnel. Whilst aiming to 
meet these objectives the Company 
ensures cost effective jobs and services, 
and delivery on time.
Lamprell meets these objectives by 
understanding customer requirements, 
working together with our customers to 
meet those requirements, understanding 
our processes well and monitoring and 
measuring our activities. Ultimately the 
Company strives to continually improve 
the Quality Management Systems  
and operations.
Corporate  
Social  
Responsibility
(continued)
“Across all our activities we seek to 
minimise the mark we leave on the sites 
at which we work.” La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
31
Financial review
0.70 per million man-hours 
LTI frequency rate
Lamprell has maintained a strong track 
record in the area of safety and has 
established a record which is exceptional for 
the oil and gas construction industry. 
Ongoing and progressive improvements in 
these safety figures has been witnessed over 
the past five years with the LTI frequency 
rate in 2009 at 0.70 per million man-hours 
compared with industry average of 3.03. 
Safety at Lamprell Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
32
1 Jonathan Silver (57)
Chairman
Jonathan Silver joined the Board on 24 
August 2007 and was appointed as the 
Chairman of the Company on 27 March 
2009. Jonathan trained with a leading 
City of London law firm and qualified as a 
solicitor in 1978, working first in London 
and later in the United Arab Emirates. In 
1981, he started his own practice in the 
United Arab Emirates and merged that 
practice with Clyde & Co in 1989. Since 
then he has headed up Clyde & Co’s 
operations in the region, creating the 
largest international law firm operating in 
the Middle East. Jonathan chairs Clyde & 
Co’s regional management board and 
represents the region on the firm’s global 
management board. Throughout his 
career in the legal profession, Jonathan 
has worked in the areas of international 
banking and finance, mergers & 
acquisitions, private equity, project and 
construction work involving him in most 
sectors of commercial activity including 
international trade, energy, construction, 
shipping, commodities and insurance. He 
has advised the boards of public and 
private companies from around the world 
extensively on their obligations, 
responsibilities and governance 
arrangements. Jonathan has, for more 
than 20 years, been associated with the 
Lamprell Group, providing legal advice on 
numerous matters including on the 
Company’s listing on AIM and more 
recently, the Official List. Jonathan is 
currently a Director of Tri-Emirates 
Property Corporation.
2 Nigel Robert McCue (58)
Chief Executive Officer
Nigel McCue was appointed to the role of 
Chief Executive Officer in May 2009. He 
joined the Board of Lamprell on 7 July 
2006 as a Non-Executive Director prior to 
being appointed to the Executive position 
Directors’ 
Biographies
1 5
2 6
3 7
4 Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
33
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
of Chief Operating Officer in May 2008. 
Nigel has over 30 years of experience in 
the petroleum industry. He was a Director 
and the Chief Executive Officer of Jura 
Energy Corporation, a company listed on 
the Toronto Stock Exchange, and is now 
its Chairman and a member of the 
Compensation Committee. Prior to this, 
he was a Director and the Chief Financial 
Officer of Lundin Petroleum AB. Nigel has 
also held various positions with Chevron 
Overseas Inc. and Gulf Oil Corporation. 
Nigel is the Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director, within the definition of 
the FRC Combined Code, of Dragon Oil 
plc, where he is the Chairman of its Audit 
Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. He is also a Director of 
Nemmoco Petroleum Limited, a private 
exploration and production company, 
Frontier Acquisition Company Limited, 
Frontier Holdings Limited, Pyramid 
Energy International Inc. and Mavignon 
Shipping Limited.
3 Scott Doak (48)
Chief Financial Officer
Scott Doak joined Lamprell in March 
2007. Scott is responsible for the finance 
and administration activities of Lamprell. 
Prior to joining Lamprell, he worked for 
Reuters Limited, based in Dubai, in the 
position of Head of Finance for Middle 
East & Africa, where he was a member of 
the Senior Management Group involved 
in strategic planning and market 
development. Previously he has held 
senior financial roles with Telerate Limited, 
Dubai, Price Waterhouse, Dubai and 
Whinney Murray & Company (Saudi 
affiliate to Ernst & Young). Scott is a 
member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland and has a 
Bachelor of Accountancy from the 
University of Glasgow.
4 Peter Whitbread (65)
Director of International Development
Peter Whitbread joined Lamprell in 1992. 
Peter is a Chartered Quantity Surveyor 
with over 35 years of experience in the oil 
and gas services sector, with extensive 
experience in managing marine 
construction companies and in the direct 
project management of a wide range of 
major marine projects, heavy marine 
equipment and vessels. He was the Chief 
Executive Officer of the Group until May 
2009 and was also the Chairman of the 
Group until 5 February 2008. He was 
appointed as the Director of International 
Development in May 2009. During his 
career he has held a number of other 
senior management positions and 
directorships with marine construction 
companies in the Middle East region.
5 Colin Goodall (65)
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Colin Goodall was appointed to the Board 
on 14 September 2008. He Chairs the 
Nomination Committee of the Company 
and is a member of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees. He is also the 
Chairman of Dana Petroleum plc; 
Parkmead Group plc and Sindicatum 
Carbon Capital Ltd. Colin qualified as a 
chartered accountant and is a member of 
the Chartered Institute of Taxation. He 
spent most of his career in the upstream 
oil & gas industry with BP plc, where he 
joined the finance team in 1975, later 
becoming the first Chief of Staff within the 
BP Group. From 1995 to 1999 he served 
as Chief Financial Officer for BP Europe 
and then as BP’s senior representative in 
Russia. His career has involved 
assignments in Africa, the Middle East, 
Europe, Russia and the Americas.
6 Richard Germain Daniel Raynaut (54)
Non-Executive Director
Richard Raynaut was appointed to the 
Board on 7 July 2006. He Chairs the Audit 
Committee of the Company and is a 
member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees. Richard has 
been involved in the oil and gas industry 
since 1977 when he was appointed as an 
accountant at IHC Caland. Between 1977 
and 2004, he held a variety of positions at 
IHC Caland (renamed SBM Offshore), 
including Chief Accountant, Treasurer and 
Financial Controller. From 2000 to 2004, 
he was appointed the Chief Financial 
Officer of the offshore division and was an 
Executive board member of Single Buoy 
Moorings Inc. From January 2005 
onwards he has been involved in Sri 
Lanka, with the charity Monaco Aide  
et Presence.
7 Brian Fredrick (58)
Non-Executive Director
Brian Fredrick was appointed to the Board 
on 1 January 2009. He Chairs the 
Remuneration Committee of the Company 
and is a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees. Brian spent most 
of his career in the financial services 
industry in Asia and the Middle East and 
worked in the United Arab Emirates in the 
1980s and 1990s. He has also worked for 
HSBC in Hong Kong, where he was HSBC 
Asia-Pacific Head of International between 
2003 and 2007 and in Brunei, and 
Vietnam. He was the Chief Executive 
Officer of HSBC’s operations in Mauritius, 
the Philippines and Indonesia for over 10 
years. He has served on the boards of a 
number of companies including A. Soriano 
Corporation and Concrete Aggregates Inc, 
both quoted on the Philippine Stock 
Exchange, Techcombank, one of the 
largest private sector banks in Vietnam 
and was Chairman of HSBC Bank 
(Mauritius) Ltd. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
34
Directors’ 
Report
The Directors present their Annual Report 
on the affairs of the Company and the 
Group together with the financial 
statements and Auditor’s Report, for the 
year ended 31 December 2009. Lamprell 
plc is the holding company of the Group 
and all its issued, and authorised, 
ordinary shares were admitted to listing 
on the main market of the London Stock 
Exchange on 6 November 2008.
Principal activities
The principal activity of the Group is the 
provision of specialised refurbishment 
and construction services to the oil and 
gas industry. The Group operates through 
a number of subsidiaries which are set 
out in Note 1 to the financial statements.
The principal activity of the Company is to 
act as a holding company for the Group.
Results and dividends
The financial statements of the Group for 
the year ended 31 December 2009 are as 
set out on pages 57 to 63.The Group net 
profit for the year amounted to USD 28.4 
million (2008: USD 85.5 million).
The Directors recommend a final dividend 
of 3.80 cents per ordinary share with a 
Sterling equivalent of 2.55 pence per 
ordinary share which, if approved, will be 
paid on 16 June 2010 to eligible 
shareholders on the register at 14 May 
2010. The Company did not pay an 
interim dividend during the year.
There was a transfer of USD 22.4 million 
(2008: USD 53.5 million) to retained 
earnings for the year ended 31 December 
2009 representing the profit for the year, 
less dividends paid, adjustments for 
share-based payments and the purchase 
of treasury shares. For details refer to the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity on page 60.
Business review and future 
developments
A full review of the Group’s activities 
during the year, recent events and future 
developments is contained in the 
Chairman’s statement on pages 4 to 5, 
the Chief Executive Officer’s statement on 
pages 6 to 9, the Operating review on 
pages 18 to 21, and the Financial review 
on pages 24 to 27.
Corporate governance and corporate 
social responsibility
The Corporate governance report on 
pages 38 to 45 and the Corporate social 
responsibility report on pages 28 to 31 
provide full details on the efforts made by 
the Company in these areas.
Directors’ remuneration report
Details of Directors’ remuneration for the 
year ended 31 December 2009 can be 
found in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 46 to 55.
Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association 
provide for a Board of Directors 
consisting of not fewer than two but not 
more than 12 Directors, who manage the 
business and affairs of the Company. The 
Directors may appoint additional or 
replacement Directors, who shall serve 
until the next AGM of the Company at 
which point they will be required to stand 
for election by the members. At each 
AGM one-third or the number nearest to 
one third of the Directors are required to 
retire by rotation and they may stand for 
re-election. A Director may be removed 
from office at a general meeting by the 
passing of an Ordinary Resolution. La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
35
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
The Directors who served in office during the financial year were as follows:
Jonathan Silver
Peter Whitbread
Nigel McCue
Scott Doak
Colin Goodall
Richard Raynaut
Brian Fredrick (Appointed on 14 September 2008 with a start date of 1 January 2009)
Peter Whitbread retires by rotation at the time of the AGM in June and has decided to 
retire from the Company at that time and not offer himself for reappointment. The 
Board would like to take this opportunity to thank Peter Whitbread for the tremendous 
contribution that he has made to the Company over the years.
Directors’ interests
The Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on page 54.
Capital structure and significant shareholders
Details of the authorised and issued share capital together with details of movements 
in share capital during the year are included in note 24 to the financial statements. The 
Company has one class of share in issue, ordinary shares of 5 pence each, all of 
which are fully paid. Each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights including one 
vote per share on a poll at general meetings of the Company, subject to the terms of 
the Company’s Articles of Association and applicable laws. Votes may be exercised by 
shareholders attending or otherwise duly represented at general meetings. Deadlines 
for the exercise of voting rights by proxy on a poll at a general meeting are detailed in 
the notice of meeting and proxy cards issued in connection with the relevant meeting. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares.
Details of employee share schemes are disclosed on page 50 of the Directors’ 
remuneration report and in note 8 to the financial statements. During the year the 
following awards of ordinary shares of 5 pence were granted:
 2009 
||
 2008
 2009 2008 2009 2008
Lamprell plc Free Share Award Plan 763,052 318,258 917,148 870,717
Lamprell plc Retention Share Plan 600,000  600,000
Lamprell plc Executive Share Option Plan 550,000  635,784 105,369
The awards under the Lamprell plc Free Share Plan and the Lamprell plc Retention 
Share Plan are granted at nil price.
Pursuant to the Company’s share schemes, the EBT as at the year-end, held a total of 
1,336,259 (2008: 669,257) ordinary shares of 5 pence, representing 0.67% (2008:0.33%) 
of the issued share capital. The voting rights attaching to these shares cannot be 
exercised directly by the employees, but can be exercised by the Trustees. However, in  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
36
line with good practice, the Trustees do not exercise these voting rights. In the event of 
another company taking control of the Company, the employee share schemes operated 
by the Company have set change of control provisions. In short, awards may, in certain 
circumstances and in approved proportions, be allowed to vest early or be allowed to be 
exchanged for awards of equivalent value in the acquiring company.
The Company was given authority at the 2009 AGM to make market purchases of up 
to 20 million ordinary shares of 5 pence. This authority will expire at the 2010 AGM, 
where approval from shareholders will be sought to renew the authority.
Approval from shareholders is also proposed to be sought to authorise the Directors 
to allot the Company’s unissued shares up to a maximum nominal amount of  
£3 million, representing approximately 30% of the Company’s current issued ordinary 
share capital (excluding treasury shares) and to issue equity securities of the Company 
for cash to persons other than existing shareholders, other than in connection with 
existing exemptions contained in the Company’s Articles of Association or in 
connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other similar issue, up to an aggregate 
nominal value of £500,000 representing approximately 5% of the current issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company. Similar authorities were given by the 
shareholders at the AGM in 2009 and the authorities now sought, if granted,
will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the AGM of the Company next year and 
the date which is 15 months after the granting of the authorities.
As at 26 March 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this 
Annual Report, the significant interests in the voting rights of the Company’s issued 
ordinary shares as per notification received by the Company (at or above the 3% 
notification threshold) were as follows:
 Voting rights % of  
 attaching to total 
 issued of total voting  
 ordinary shares rights Nature of holding
Lamprell Holdings Limited  66,333,944  33.12  Direct
Standard Life Investments Ltd  17,932,984 8.95 Direct/Indirect
Royce & Associates LLC 10,054,900 5.02  Direct
Ignis Investment Services Ltd  8,592,941 4.29  Indirect
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by a resolution of the 
shareholders. A resolution to adopt new Articles of Association is being proposed at 
the 2010 AGM and full details can be found in the accompanying Notice of AGM.
AGM
The Company’s fourth AGM as a listed public company will be held at the Suite 102, 
City Tower 2, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, United Arab Emirates on Monday, the 7th of 
June 2010 at 12.00 noon (UAE time). The notice of meeting and an explanatory circular 
to shareholders setting out the AGM business accompanies this Annual Report.
Directors’ 
Report
(continued) La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
37
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board has established a process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks the Group faces. A 
detailed analysis of the risks and 
uncertainties can be found on pages 22 
to 23.
Payment policy
The Group’s policy in respect of its 
vendors is to agree and establish terms of 
payment when contracting for the goods 
or services and to abide by those 
payment terms. The Company is the 
holding Company of the Group and has 
no trade creditors.
Charitable and political donations
During the year the Group made no 
political (2008: nil) or charitable donations 
(2008: nil).
Auditors
As far as each Director is aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware. In 
addition, each Director has taken all the 
steps that he ought to have taken as a 
Director in order to make himself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s Auditors are 
aware of that information.
The auditors for the year ended 31 
December 2009 were 
PricewaterhouseCoopers. They have 
expressed their willingness to continue in 
office as auditors and a resolution to 
reappoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the 
Directors consider that the Company and 
the Group have adequate resources to 
remain in operation for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
The Directors confirm that suitable 
accounting policies have been used and 
applied consistently. They also confirm 
that reasonable and prudent judgements 
and estimates have been made in 
preparing the financial statements for the 
year ended 31 December 2009 and that 
applicable accounting standards have 
been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
proper accounting records which disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the 
Group and to enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements comply with the 
Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 to 
2004. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial statements have been 
prepared on the going concern basis 
since the Directors have reasonable 
expectation that, firstly, the Company’s 
and the Group’s activities are sustainable 
and, secondly, that adequate resources 
are available to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the 
Company website. Your attention is 
drawn to the fact that legislation in the Isle 
of Man governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from other jurisdictions and 
uncertainty regarding the legal 
requirements is compounded as 
information published on the internet is 
accessible in many countries with 
different legal requirements relating to the 
preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements.
Subsequent events
Subsequent events are as set out in note 
34 to the Financial Statements.
By order of the Board
Ravindra Dabir
Company Secretary
26 March 2010 
Ravindra Dabir, Company Secretary Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
38
Corporate 
Governance 
Report
The Company is incorporated in the Isle 
of Man, where there is no formal Code 
covering Corporate Governance. 
However, as the shares of the Company 
are listed on the Official List of the LSE 
and as the Board is strongly committed to 
the highest standards of corporate 
governance, the Board applies the 
provisions of the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance published in 2008 
(“Code”) as if the Company was 
incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Code seeks to ensure that the 
Company is run in a manner whereby the 
interests of shareholders are protected 
and as such the Code sets out principles 
of good corporate governance together 
with specific provisions.
Statement of compliance with the 
provisions of good governance
The Directors consider that throughout 2009 
and up to the date hereof, the Company has 
applied the principles and complied with the 
provisions of the Code, subject to exceptions 
identified in this report.
The Board
The Board plans to meet at least six times 
in a year. The role of the Board is to 
provide leadership of the Company, set 
values and standards, and to ensure that 
the Company’s obligations to its 
shareholders and other stakeholders are 
met. The Board has a formal schedule of 
matters reserved to itself for decision, 
including but not limited to, matters of a 
strategic nature, approval of the annual 
budget, approval of major acquisitions, 
investments and disposals, major 
changes to the Group’s capital structure, 
the preparation of financial statements, 
the recommendation or declaration of 
dividends, the entry into contracts which 
are deemed to be material strategically or 
by reason of size, succession planning 
and appointments to the Board, executive 
remuneration, ensuring the maintenance 
of a sound system of internal controls, 
reviewing its own and its Committees’ 
performance, and reviewing the 
Company’s overall corporate governance 
arrangements.
The current membership of the Board 
and the commitments of the Directors are 
stated on pages 32 and 33, which record 
the names of the Chairman, the Senior 
Independent Director and the Chief 
Executive Officer. The names of the 
Chairmen and members of each of the 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees are detailed below under the 
respective Committee summaries.
The Board met 10 times during the year 
and of these meetings five were 
conducted by telephone via a conference 
call. These meetings were required to 
deal with specific business matters which 
arose as part of the normal business of 
the Group and which needed to be 
addressed between scheduled Board 
meetings. In addition, the Board executes 
a number of resolutions in writing to 
conduct Company business. The 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
have met without the executives present 
when necessary and the Executive 
Directors maintain frequent verbal and 
written contact with the Non-Executive 
Directors to discuss various issues 
affecting the Company and its business. 
The agenda and appropriate supporting 
Board papers are distributed by the 
Secretary to the Board on a timely basis. La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
39
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Attendance by the Directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees are 
summarised in the table below:
   Audit   Remuneration Nomination 
Meeting description Board Committee Committee Committee
Total number of meetings   10 4 5 4
Jonathan Silver
1
 9 n/a n/a   n/a
Chairman of the Company
Colin Goodall 9 4 5 4
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Richard Raynaut 10 4 5 4
Non Executive Director
Brian Fredrick
2
 10 4 5 4
Non Executive Director
Nigel McCue
3
 9 n/a n/a  n/a
Chief Executive Officer
Peter Whitbread
4
 10 n/a n/a   n/a
Director of International Development
Scott Doak 9 n/a n/a   n/a
Chief Financial Officer
1 Jonathan Silver was appointed as the Chairman of the Company on 27 March 2009.
2  Brian Fredrick was appointed as a Director on 1 January 2009.
3  Nigel McCue was appointed to the position of the Chief Executive Officer on 27 March 2009 with effect from  
1 May 2009.
4  Peter Whitbread resigned as the Chief Executive Officer on 27 March 2009 and was appointed to the position of 
the Director of International Development with effect from 1 May 2009.
The Group maintains Directors’ and Officers’ Liability insurance cover, the level of 
which is reviewed annually.
Chairman and Chief Executive
Section 1 A.2.2 of the Code states that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
should not be exercised by the same individual and responsibilities between these 
roles should be clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board. The 
Chairman on appointment should meet the independence criteria set out in Section 1 
A.3.1 of the Code.
Nigel McCue is the Chief Executive Officer and Jonathan Silver is the Non-Executive 
Chairman. Jonathan Silver is employed by a firm that represents the Company as one 
of its legal advisers. Jonathan Silver was therefore not deemed independent on 
appointment as the Chairman of the Company. However, the Board and the 
Nomination Committee, considering his performance, experience and his detailed 
knowledge of the Company and the Middle East, believe that, despite his lack of 
independence on appointment, Jonathan Silver’s appointment as the Chairman of the 
Company is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
40
Board balance and independence
The Board currently has seven Directors, 
consisting of four Non-Executive Directors 
and three Executive Directors. The Board 
considers all the Non-Executive Directors, 
excluding the Chairman, Jonathan Silver, to 
be independent in accordance with the 
definition of the Code and their 
appointment to be in the best interests of 
the shareholders. To that end, half of the 
Board excluding the Chairman (as cited 
above), is comprised of Non-Executive 
Directors determined by the Board to be 
independent. The Directors believe that the 
extensive knowledge and experience of the 
Non-Executive Directors combined with 
the focus and experience of the Executive 
Directors, enable the Board to lead and 
give direction to the Group without any 
imbalance that may allow any individual or 
Group of individuals to dominate its 
decision making. Any Director having a 
concern in this or any other regard may 
raise this with the Chairman or the Senior 
Independent Director.
Colin Goodall has been appointed as the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director and is available to shareholders if 
they have any concerns for which contact 
through the normal channels of Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer or Chief 
Financial Officer cannot be resolved or for 
which such contact is inappropriate.
The Board considers that independence is a 
matter of judgement and therefore it believes 
that the Non-Executive Directors should be 
free from any business or other relationships 
that could materially interfere in the exercise 
of their independent judgement. It is the 
Board’s policy to provide its Non-Executive 
Directors fair remuneration for the 
contribution they make with respect to the 
business and affairs of the Company and the 
responsibilities they undertake in performing 
their duties as Non-Executive Directors.
Appointments to the Board
All appointments to the Board are  
based on the recommendation of the 
Nomination Committee. The composition 
and working of the Nomination Committee 
are explained under “Principal Board 
Committees” on pages 42 to 43. The 
terms and conditions of appointment of 
the Non Executive Directors are available 
for inspection at the registered office of the 
Company during normal business hours 
and will be available at the AGM fifteen 
minutes prior to the meeting and during 
the meeting.
Induction and professional 
development
A formal induction programme is 
provided to new Directors on their 
appointment. The programme is 
designed to cover Companies Act 
requirements, dealing restrictions as 
outlined in the Disclosure Rules and the 
Model Code on Directors’ dealings in 
securities contained in the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority in the 
United Kingdom, Board and business 
related matters, meetings with senior 
management, site visits and the 
opportunity to meet with major 
shareholders. The Company encourages 
Directors to refresh their knowledge and 
skills and to keep up to date with the 
latest developments in corporate 
governance, financial reporting, the 
industry and market conditions. The 
Company reimburses any expenses 
incurred in this regard.
Major shareholders have had discussions 
with the Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director 
Colin Goodall. All the Non-Executive 
Directors will be available at the AGM to 
meet with major shareholders.
Corporate 
Governance 
Report
(continued) Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
41
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
The Directors are entitled to take 
independent professional advice, at  
the Company’s expense, if required. 
Directors have access to the advice and 
services of the Secretary to the Board, 
who is responsible for ensuring that the 
Board procedures and applicable rules 
and regulations are observed, and for 
advising the Board, through the 
Chairman, on governance matters. The 
agenda for each Board and Committee 
meeting is considered by the relevant 
Chairman and papers for each scheduled 
formal Board and Committee meeting are 
provided beforehand. In addition, the 
Chairman maintains regular contact with 
the Executive Directors to discuss 
specific issues.
Directors are free to meet individual 
members of the senior management 
team and have done so during the year 
under review. The Board and its 
Committees receive briefings on 
legislative and regulatory developments 
and new accounting requirements as 
appropriate and believe that, given the 
experience and skills of its Directors, the 
identification of general training needs is 
best left to individual discretion.
No Director took independent 
professional advice during the year.
Performance evaluation
A performance evaluation of the Chairman, 
the Board, its members and the 
Committees was conducted through a 
questionnaire led interview with other 
members of the Board. The questionnaires 
included a review of the Directors 
attendance at Board meetings, the Board 
agenda, those areas on which the Board 
should focus during its meetings, the 
effectiveness of the roles of the Chairman 
and Non-Executive Directors, Board 
procedures and administration, and the 
operation of the Board’s Nominations, 
Audit and Remuneration Committees.  
The results were considered satisfactory 
by the Board.
The performance evaluation of the Board, 
its members and its Committees will 
continue on an annual basis.
Retirement and re-election
In accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association, all Directors are 
subject to election at the first AGM after 
their appointment and one third, or the 
number nearest to one third of the Board, 
shall retire from office at every AGM. Any 
Director in office for more than three 
years at the start of an AGM shall also 
retire. Accordingly, Peter Whitbread and 
Richard Raynaut being the longest 
serving Directors, and making up the 
number nearest to one third of the Board, 
will retire at the forthcoming AGM. Peter 
Whitbread has decided to retire from the 
Company at that time and not offer 
himself for reappointment. Richard 
Raynaut, being eligible, offers himself for 
reappointment. The biographical details 
of Richard Raynaut, the Director 
proposed for re-election, can be found on 
page 33. The Chairman confirms that 
following formal performance evaluation, 
the performance of Richard Raynaut 
continues to be effective and that he 
demonstrates commitment to his role. 
The Board supports the re-election of the 
retiring Director, Richard Raynaut.
Directors’ remuneration
The principles and details of Directors’ 
remuneration are contained in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 
46 to 55. The composition and working of 
the Remuneration Committee are 
explained under “Principal Board 
Committees” on page 43.
Principal Board Committees
The Board is assisted by the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. A summary of the activities 
of each committee is set out below. The 
Committees are constituted with 
appropriate written terms of reference, 
which are reviewed annually and are 
available on the Company’s website. 
Except for the Terms of Reference of the 
Remuneration Committee which was 
amended to clarify the role of the 
Committee and to address requirements 
arising from changes to the management 
structure, the other Committee terms of 
references did not require any changes 
further to the annual review. The minutes 
of meetings and/or reports from the 
Chairmen of the Committees are made 
available to the Board for its next 
scheduled meeting following the 
Committee meeting in question, or as 
soon as practicable thereafter.
Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee  
are Richard Raynaut, who acts as 
Chairman, Colin Goodall and Brian 
Fredrick. Others may be co-opted onto 
the Committee by the Committee 
members. The Board considers all the 
members of the Audit Committee who 
are Non-Executive Directors to be 
independent in character and judgement 
and free from any relationship or 
circumstance which may, or could or 
would be likely to, or which appears to, 
affect their judgement. Richard Raynaut, 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
has relevant and recent financial 
experience having retired from his 
position as Chief Financial Officer in 2004. 
Other members of the Audit Committee 
also have relevant financial experience.
Meetings of the Audit Committee are held 
not less than three times a year. The Chief  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
42
Financial Officer is invited to attend 
meetings, where appropriate, and the 
Company’s auditors are regularly invited 
to attend meetings, including once at the 
planning stage before the audit and once 
after the audit at the reporting stage. 
Other Board members may also be 
invited to attend, although at least once a 
year the Audit Committee meets the 
Company’s external auditors without 
management being present. The terms of 
reference of the Audit Committee include 
consideration of matters relating to the 
appointment of the Company’s auditors 
and the independence of the Company’s 
auditors, reviewing the integrity of the 
Company’s annual and interim reports, 
preliminary results’ announcements and 
any other formal announcement relating 
to its financial performance. The Audit 
Committee also reviews the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of internal audit, 
internal control and compliance 
procedures.
The Audit Committee has established 
and monitors the Group’s policy in 
relation to non-audit services provided by 
the external auditor, with a view to 
ensuring objectivity, independence and 
cost effectiveness.
The Audit Committee also monitors the 
procedure to ensure that employees may 
raise ethical concerns in confidence. The 
Audit Committee has designated the 
Chief Financial Officer as the Compliance 
Officer; employees also have access to 
the Audit Committee if the Compliance 
Officer has not dealt with their concerns 
satisfactorily.
The Company has adopted a code of 
conduct covering all employees including 
senior executives; the compliance with 
this code of conduct is monitored by the 
Human Resource department. The code 
of conduct includes amongst others, the 
prohibition of bribery and political 
donations.
The Audit Committee met (including 
meetings by conference call) four times 
during the year and the attendance at its 
meetings is reported on page 39.
Nomination Committee
The current members of the Nomination 
Committee are Colin Goodall, who acts 
as Chairman, Richard Raynaut and Brian 
Fredrick. The Nomination Committee’s 
terms of reference are to periodically 
review the structure, size and 
composition, including the skills, 
knowledge and experience required of 
the Board compared to its current 
position and make its recommendations 
to the Board with regard to any changes. 
The Nomination Committee also 
considers the future composition of the 
Board, taking into account the challenges 
and opportunities facing the Company, 
and skills and expertise needed on the 
Board. The Nomination Committee also 
makes recommendations to the Board 
about the membership of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees.
On 14 September 2008 Brian Fredrick was 
appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
with a start date of 1 January 2009, based 
on the recommendation of the Nomination 
Committee. The selection process 
involved interviews with a number of 
candidates that were shortlisted from a list 
of candidates who had been considered at 
the time of the Company’s IPO and from a 
list of candidates referred by the Directors 
and Company’s advisers. The Nomination 
Committee considered the candidate’s 
relevance to the Company’s business, 
experience and the candidate’s time 
commitment, as well as the skills required 
on the Board.
Corporate 
Governance 
Report
(continued) Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
43
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
While recommending the nomination for 
the position of the Chairman, the 
Nomination Committee reviewed and 
accepted the job specification for the 
Chairman adopted by the Board in 
January 2009, assessed the time 
commitment expected for the position 
and the availability of the Chairman in the 
event of crisis.
An external search for the Board 
appointments was not undertaken as the 
referrals and the information held by the 
Company for the positions of the Non-
Executive Director and internal 
candidature for the position of the 
Chairman satisfied the requirement.
The Nomination Committee met 
(including meetings by conference calls) 
four times during the year and the 
attendance at its meetings is reported on 
page 39.
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration 
Committee are Brian Fredrick, who acts 
as Chairman, Colin Goodall and Richard 
Raynaut. Brian Fredrick took over the 
Chairmanship of the Committee from 
Richard Raynaut in June 2009. The terms 
of reference of the Remuneration 
Committee provide for it to determine and 
agree with the Board the framework or 
broad policy for the remuneration of the 
Company’s Chief Executive Officer, the 
Chief Operating Officer and the Chief 
Financial Officer, other Executive 
Directors, the Company Secretary and 
other such members of the executive 
management as it is designated to 
consider. The remuneration of the 
Non-Executive Directors is a matter for 
the Executive Directors. No Director or 
manager may be involved in any 
decisions as to his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee met 
(including meetings by conference call) 
five times during the year. The attendance 
at its meetings is reported on page 39.
Accountability and Audit
The Board plays a direct role in the 
development of the Group’s internal 
controls and risk management systems in 
addition to overseeing controls and risk 
management procedures via the Audit 
Committee. However, the primary 
responsibility for developing and 
implementing internal control and risk 
management procedures covering 
strategic, commercial, operational and 
financial aspects of the business, lies with 
the management.
Financial reporting
The statement on the responsibilities of 
the Directors in relation to the preparation 
of the accounts and the Directors’ 
evaluation of the business as a going 
concern is contained in the Directors’ 
Report on pages 34 to 37.
Internal audit
The Audit Committee evaluated the 
performance of the internal audit function 
from the quality of reports received from 
Ernst & Young, the Group’s internal 
auditors; feedback from management; 
and, an assessment of work planned and 
undertaken. During the year the Company 
has undertaken Internal Control Self 
Assessment in the absence of internal 
audit. In March 2010, as per the 
Company’s long-term plan, an 
independent internal audit function has 
been set up within the organisation. 
Ravindra Dabir, the Company Secretary, 
has been appointed as the Vice 
President-Internal Audit and tasked with 
the objective of setting up and managing 
a fully fledged internal audit department.
Internal control
The control environment, risk management 
system and assurance processes being 
the three key elements leading to a robust 
system of internal control in the Group, are 
described below.
There exists a clear organisational 
structure for the control and monitoring of 
the Group’s businesses, including defined 
lines of responsibility and delegation of 
authority. The business follows policies 
and procedures which amongst other 
matters, include policies for the Company 
and its employees on health and safety, 
security, the environment, corporate 
social responsibility and areas of 
legal compliance.
The Group has an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks faced by the Group. This 
has been in place for the year under 
review and up to the date of this annual 
report and is in accordance with the 
Revised Turnbull Guidance. The Directors 
are aware that the Group’s risk 
management systems cannot completely 
eliminate risks and thus there can never 
be an absolute assurance against the 
Group failing to achieve its objectives or a 
material loss arising. In the Board’s 
regular review of the Group’s strategic 
plans, consideration is given to those 
risks which have been identified as 
potential impediments to achieving the 
Group’s strategic objectives. The Board 
receives regular formal updates from 
management on the key risks and the 
related controls in relation to the Group’s 
existing business and, if appropriate, on 
potential new business. Management 
thoroughly considers risks associated 
with undertaking new business. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
44
The Directors receive assurances  
from the following internal and  
external controls:
Annual self assessment of agreed  −
internal controls by process owners 
and review of such results by the 
internal auditors.
Regular executive reports from  −
management in areas covering key 
issues, performance, business outlook, 
human resources and health, safety 
and environment.
Financial performance reports including  −
analyses of significant variances 
regularly reported by the management.
External audit reports, presentations  −
and management letters from the 
Group’s auditors.
Reports from the internal audit function. −
Reports from internal quality audits. −
Reports from the Audit Committee. −
The Board conducts an annual review of 
the effectiveness of the systems of 
internal control including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and 
risk management systems. Where 
material weaknesses have been 
identified, safeguards are implemented 
and monitored.
Audit Committee and Auditors
The composition and working of the Audit 
Committee are explained under “Principal 
Board committees” on pages 41 to 42.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the 
performance of PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
the external auditors, who retire at the 
end of the AGM and recommends their 
reappointment. The Board concurs  
with the recommendation of the  
Audit Committee.
During the year, the external auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, were also 
engaged to provide services in relation to 
a licence application in Thailand. The 
Audit Committee, in accordance with the 
Policy on Auditor Independence and 
adopted by the Group, and having 
considered the nature of work to be 
carried out believes that, whilst being 
cost effective, the appointment of the 
external auditors to apply for the licence 
did not affect the objectivity, or the 
independence, of the external auditors.
Dialogue with institutional 
shareholders
The Chairman, the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, the Chief 
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial 
Officer have regular meetings with major 
shareholders and research analysts. The 
Board receives regular feedback from 
analysts and major shareholders, 
compiled by the Company’s brokers and 
financial public relations consultants, in 
particular, following presentations and 
meetings after the publication of financial 
results. The principal method of 
communicating with the majority of 
shareholders is via the annual report and 
accounts and the Company’s website, 
which contains details of financial 
presentations to analysts, press releases 
and other information about the Group. 
All shareholders have the opportunity to 
attend the AGM. All Directors were 
present at the 2009 annual general 
meeting and all Directors intend to be 
present at the 2010 AGM to answer 
shareholders’ questions.
Constructive use of the AGM
The Board uses the AGM as an occasion 
to communicate with all shareholders, 
including private investors, who are 
provided with the opportunity to question 
the Directors. At the AGM the total 
number of proxy votes lodged on each 
resolution categorised as for, against, and 
votes withheld will be made available both 
Corporate 
Governance 
Report
(continued) Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
45
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
at the meeting and subsequently on the 
Company’s website. Each separate issue 
is presented as a separate resolution and 
the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees will  
be available to answer questions  
from shareholders.
The Notice of the AGM, and related 
papers containing the text of resolutions 
to be proposed at the AGM, and 
explanatory notes, where necessary, will 
be posted to the shareholders at least 20 
working days before the AGM. The 
interim and preliminary results of the 
Company, along with all other press 
releases, are posted on the Company’s 
website, www.lamprell.com, as soon as 
they are announced and are available  
for download. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
46
Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Opening statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder, 
I am pleased to present to you the Remuneration Committee’s report on Directors’ remuneration for the year to 
31 December 2009. 
This past year has been a turbulent one for global markets and there have been significant challenges for us to meet during this 
difficult period. The fall in the oil price from the very high levels seen in 2008 combined with a lower demand for oil and the 
reduction of credit lines available to the industry has had a negative impact on both turnover and profit margins. The Company’s 
executives have focused on the containment of costs and the management of our order book to ensure that resources remain 
available for continued growth and investment. It is pleasing that having come through this difficult period we have entered 2010 
by signing a number of new contracts and we look forward to a better year in 2010. 
 
The current economic outlook has continued to emphasise the important role that remuneration committees have to play in 
designing appropriate remuneration packages to recruit, retain and motivate executive talent, whilst providing an appropriate 
balance between risk and remuneration. In monitoring and reviewing the Company’s remuneration policy, the Remuneration 
Committee has taken into account general market conditions and input from major institutional shareholders, as well as to the 
challenges and opportunities facing the Company going forward.
The Remuneration Committee’s intention is to provide packages for the Executive Directors that are appropriately balanced 
between base salary and bonuses; in last year’s Remuneration Report, we committed to a further review of the balance between 
base pay and bonus. The principles continue to be that base salary should be competitive in the market; and that bonus should 
be linked to the achievement of predetermined and measurable targets for the Company overall and for personal performance. 
The results of benchmarking exercises in 2009 indicated that the total remuneration of the Executive Directors was lower than that 
of the market as defined by a comparator group of 13 companies in oilfield services and oil and gas production. As stated in last 
year’s report, the mix between base salary and bonus was significantly different.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed its remuneration policy in 2009 and agreed key principles which are set out on page 47. 
These remuneration principles provided the foundation for the arrangements in place this year, and will be the basis on which we 
will agree remuneration going forward.
The Remuneration Committee after taking account of the underlying performance of the Company, the direction given by the 
Executive Directors in driving key change initiatives across the Company and recognising the need to ensure that the remuneration 
of the Executives is better aligned with the strategy of the Company and competitive norms, has revised the base salaries of the 
CEO and CFO with effect from 1 January 2010. The results of these revisions are shown in the section on Base Salary below. It is 
the Committee’s intention to benchmark these salaries again during 2010 either to validate that the new levels remain competitive 
or to determine what revisions may be required.
With regard to the variable components of pay:
the multiplier for the Annual Bonus opportunity has been reduced from 1.75 to 1.00 in order to better align the pay mix of the  −
Executive remuneration packages with current market practice;
  − the quantum of the Annual Bonuses paid to Executive Directors for the year 2009 is shown on page 49;
  − the Remuneration Committee, having considered advice from Mercer, (who have acted as independent compensation 
consultants), to apply Relative TSR as the performance measure for the PSP, has decided to maintain Earnings per Share 
growth as previously approved by shareholders; and,
  − the quantum of the PSP awards to Executive Directors is shown on page 55. 
Brian Fredrick
Remuneration Committee Chairman
26 March 2010
Directors’ Remuneration Report Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
47
Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Corporate governance
Introduction
This report and the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee have been approved by the Board and will be submitted to 
shareholders for approval at the 2010 AGM. This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Regulations 2002 and the Company applied the provisions of the Combined Code relating to remuneration throughout the 
year ended 31 December 2009.
The regulations require the auditors to report to the Company’s shareholders on the “auditable part” of the Remuneration Report 
and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act. 
This report has therefore been divided into two parts setting out the audited and non-audited information respectively.
A separate resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. 
Information not subject to audit
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee (“Committee”) provide for it to determine, and agree with the Board, the 
policy for the remuneration of Lamprell’s Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and such other members of the executive 
management as it is designated to consider. The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Company’s website 
– www.lamprell.com.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the members of the Committee were Mr Fredrick (Chairman), Mr Raynaut and  
Mr Goodall. Mr Fredrick assumed the position of Chairman on 11 June 2009 from Mr Raynaut. The Board deems all of the current 
members of the Committee to be independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Committee met five times during 2009 with all members of the Committee at the date of each meeting in attendance.
Advisers to the Committee
Mercer was asked to undertake an Executive Benchmarking exercise in 2009 and provided proposals on how to adjust Executive 
Remuneration packages. Mercer also reviewed Lamprell’s current PSP for Executives and made recommendations, which were 
not accepted by the Committee, for the application of TSR as a relative measure for this plan and for other changes to the terms of 
the plan. 
Separately, Mercer also conducted an End of Service Gratuity Valuation under the provisions of the IFRS.
The Committee consults with the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive as appropriate, and both may be asked to 
attend meetings by request. By request, the Committee is also supported by the Company Secretary and other employees, 
although no individual is involved in discussions around their own remuneration.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy of the Company has been designed with the aim of enabling the recruitment, motivation and retention of 
Executive Directors and senior managers of the highest calibre. The remuneration structure should support the needs of the 
business in a competitive marketplace. UK shareholder guidelines will be followed to the highest possible extent consistent with 
the needs of the business.
The reward policy determined by the Committee aims to drive business performance and maximise shareholder value through the 
use of a mixture of fixed and variable pay. It is based on the following key principles:
remuneration packages should be balanced between base salary and bonuses; −
base salary should be competitive; −
bonus should be linked to the achievement of predetermined and measurable targets for the Company and personal  −
performance;
Health and safety standards are of paramount importance and any accident which causes serious injury or a fatality that occurs  −
in a facility operated by the Company or any subsidiary will be taken into consideration for the payments of any performance 
bonus; and,
PSP shares shall align the interests of senior staff to shareholders. −
The Committee views Executive remuneration from a total compensation perspective, taking account of all elements of reward. 
The total compensation opportunity for Executive Directors should be market competitive to enable the recruitment and retention 
of the required talent and experience. However, a high proportion of remuneration should be variable and, therefore, “at risk” and 
the reward policy should support the creation of shareholder value. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
48
La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
During the year, the Company commissioned a review of the pay and benefits of all employees below Senior Management level in all 
its operations. The findings of that review and the resulting adjustments to compensation were taken into account by the Committee 
in its consideration of the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and Vice Presidents for the year. 
Mercer benchmarked Executive Directors’ Total Remuneration and all its components against a group of comparator companies 
of a similar size and engaged in relevant activities:
Hargreaves Services plc   − – Salamander Energy plc
Wellstream Holdings plc   − – Melrose Resources plc
Hunting plc   − – Energy XXI (Bermuda) Limited
Fortune Oil plc   − – JKX Oil & Gas plc
Gulfsands Petroleum plc   − – Premier Oil plc
Emerald Energy plc   − – Venture Production plc
Afren plc    −
As a secondary reference point, the Mercer study also had reference to the remuneration framework of the following UK-listed oil 
equipment and services sector companies:
Petrofac Limited    − – Noble Corporation
Rowan Companies Inc.    − – Transocean
There are three main elements of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors:
basic annual salary and benefits, including a pension equivalent; −
annual cash bonus payments; and, −
share-based long-term incentives. −
The table below summarises these elements and their key features:
  Positioning against 
Component Quantum market Purpose Delivery Other key features 
Base salary Varies by role  Upper quartile Provides the fixed Monthly cash Reviewed annually 
 and individual  element of the payment 
   package  
Annual  Individual maxima,  Market Median To drive and reward Annual cash Based on annual 
performance with Executive Directors’   annual performance payment performance against 
bonus plan capped at 100% of   of individuals, teams  pre-determined 
 base salary  and the Company.  objectives
Pension  c. 8% of base salary n/a – see below To provide a Cash payment This is based on 
equivalent   retirement benefit following  local UAE Labour 
    retirement, Law and is 
    based on length  consistently applied 
    of service and across all employees  
    final salary of the Company.
Performance  Normally, up to 100% Competitive To motivate senior Full-value shares Effectively replaced 
Share Plan of salary in conditional   management and  following a Executive Share 
 share grants  align interests with  three-year Option Plan awards 
   shareholders vesting period for Executive  
     Directors
Each element is described in further detail in separate sections below and the Committee consider that all elements of the pay 
structure are of importance in supporting the Company’s remuneration policy. The charts below illustrate the relative proportions 
of pay at risk (variable) and not at risk (fixed) at different levels of performance based on a projected value methodology.
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
49
Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Corporate governance
Exceptional performance will increase the variable part of the compensation package to more than 66% compared with around 
50% for on target performance.
Elements of Remuneration
Base salary
Policy: upper quartile base salary to provide market competitive package following Mercer review
The Company has historically positioned the base salaries of the Executive Directors below the median for the competitive market, 
with a substantial proportion of their remuneration therefore being performance-related. However, after a review of the overall 
package, especially in the light of a highly volatile market in 2009, the Committee decided to adjust the CEO and CFO basic 
salaries to be competitive at the upper quartile of the market, largely to recognise the following:
The results of the benchmarking exercises undertaken by Deloitte L.L.P. (the Committee’s previous advisors) in 2007 and 2008  −
had indicated anomalies between the base salaries and bonus amounts paid by the Company, and that of its comparator group, 
with base salaries significantly lower and variable pay through bonus significantly higher than the comparator group.
The results of the benchmarking exercise undertaken by Mercer in 2009 came to similar conclusions to the exercises  −
undertaken by Deloitte.
The Committee considers that too high a level of pay which is “at risk” could lead to the loss of key Executive Directors in  −
difficult economic circumstances when continuity is most important.
Changes to the roles and responsibilities of Nigel McCue, who assumed the role of CEO from 1 May 2009, and Scott Doak, the  −
CFO who assumed all responsibilities previously undertaken by the Director of Corporate Communications who left the 
Company on 1 January 2009.
The table below shows the base salaries of each current Executive Director effective as at 1 April 2009, and those that will apply 
from 1 January 2010:
          
       Base salary Base salary  
Name Position      from 1.4.2009 from 1.1.2010 % increase
Nigel McCue Chief Executive Officer, former Chief Operating Officer   $415,500 $785,662 89%
Scott Doak Chief Financial Officer      $354,393 $ 472,153 33%
Peter Whitbread Former Chief Executive Officer     $378,000 $378,000 0%
Annual bonus
Policy: bonus to provide competitive total cash opportunity
The Executive Directors and senior management can receive annual bonus payments based on the achievement of net profit 
targets and individual objectives, which are reviewed by the Committee at the start of the financial year. The Committee has an 
overriding discretion to consider, if deemed necessary, performance on environmental, social and governance issues when 
determining the annual bonus payments for the Executive Directors.
In view of the Company’s financial performance during 2009 the Committee has determined that no bonuses will be paid. 
The Committee keeps the remuneration arrangements under review and has determined it appropriate that the key principles of 
the annual bonus plan for financial year 2010 should be as follows:
the annual bonus opportunity will be capped at a maximum of 100% of base salary for the Executive Directors; and −
payout of 60% of the bonus will be based on financial targets, with the remaining 40% dependent on the achievement of  −
personal objectives.
On-target performance
1
2
Exceptional performance
1
2
1 Variable
2 Fixed Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
50
La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Long-term incentives
Policy: competitive rewards to recruit, retain and motivate individuals of a top calibre
Long-term incentives are provided to eligible employees under the provisions of three different share based plans; 
The Lamprell plc Executive Share Option Plan − 
This plan provides for Options over Lamprell shares to be granted at market value to eligible employees. The Options will 
normally vest after three years and be exercisable up to the 10th anniversary of the date of grant. 
The Lamprell plc Retention Share Plan − 
This plan provides for the conditional allocation of shares to eligible employees selected by the Board. Awards will normally vest 
and the shares be released, together with any accumulated dividends, if determined by the Board, two years after the date of 
grant.
The Lamprell plc 2008 Performance Share Plan − 
The main features of the PSP are that Awards over Lamprell shares can be made, on an annual basis, to Executive Directors 
and other key individuals. The Awards will take the form of a promise to deliver free shares, but may be structured in an 
economically equivalent form subject to an assessment of local tax and regulatory issues. Awards will normally vest on the third 
anniversary of the date of grant of the award, subject to any applicable performance conditions having been satisfied.
The PSP is intended to be the Company’s primary long-term incentive vehicle for Executive Directors and senior management. 
Executive Directors will not normally be granted Options under the Executive Share Option Plan or receive Awards under the 
Retention Share Plan. However, for retention purposes, Nigel McCue and Scott Doak were each granted Options in March 2009.
The Committee believes that the performance conditions for vesting of PSP awards should strike a balance between achieving 
alignment with shareholder returns and reward for delivery of strong underlying performance, the latter point being more in the 
control of senior management. 
First awards under the PSP will be made with respect to the year ended 31 December 2009 and their vesting will be subject to 
achieving EPS growth relative to predefined targets, as the Committee considers EPS to be one of the key measures of the 
Company’s success. The intended EPS targets and their associated vesting levels are as follows (straight-line vesting applies 
between the hurdles):
EPS growth over three-year period       Percentage of award vesting
less than 15%       0%
15%       25%
45% or more       100%
The Committee regularly reviews both the overall suitability of the Company’s share-based remuneration, the level of awards made 
under the plans operated, and the performance conditions attached to those awards. Any value earned under the Company’s 
long-term incentive plans is not pensionable.
Pension
Policy: in line with local market practice
Under employment law in the UAE, the Executive Directors participate in a terminal gratuity scheme operated by the Company as 
a pension equivalent. This is operated as a cash payment based on the length of service and final salary of the Executive Director 
and the value of these cash provisions is c. 8% of base salary.
Under the terms of the local UAE labour law the terminal gratuity accrues benefit to an employee as follows:
21 days per annum for the first five years of employment −
30 days per annum for the remainder of their employment −
The benefit accrues for incomplete years on a pro rata basis, is calculated using the current base salary and has a maximum 
benefit amounting to two years of the annual base salary. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
51
Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Corporate governance
Other remuneration elements
The Executive Directors also receive other benefits including car allowances, housing allowances, utilities for housing, school fees 
for children up to the age of 18 years old, annual airline tickets, medical and life insurance, petrol costs and club memberships. 
The cash value of the benefits received by each Executive Director in 2009 is shown in the table on page 53.
Directors’ contracts
The policy set out below provides the framework for contracts for the Executive Directors. It is the Company’s policy that 
Executive Directors should have contracts with a rolling term providing for a maximum of one year’s notice. Consequently, no 
Executive Director has a contractual notice period in excess of 12 months.
Aspect of contract Policy
Notice period on termination by the Company or the  12 calendar months 
Executive Director
Termination payment  Up to one times annual basic salary, plus benefits but excluding bonus. 
The Company may elect to pay sums in lieu of notice in three separate 
tranches: 50% within seven working days of the Termination Date; 
25% three months after the Termination Date; and 25% six months after 
the Termination Date. 
Vesting of long-term incentive scheme awards  In line with the rules of the relevant equity incentive scheme – generally 
pro-rated for time and performance for good leavers
Pension  Based on existing arrangements and terms of the UAE Labour Law with 
respect to terminal gratuity
The general policy on termination is that the Company does not make payments beyond its contractual obligations, i.e. no 
ex-gratia payments are made. 
The Committee will seek to ensure that there have been no unjustified payments for failure, and as such none of the Executive 
Directors’ contracts provides for liquidated damages, longer periods of notice on a change of control of the Company, or 
additional compensation on an Executive Director’s cessation of employment. 
The table below sets out the details of the Executive Directors’ service contracts:
Director     Date of contract Effective date
Peter Whitbread     11 September 2006 11 September 2006
Nigel McCue     16 May 2008 16 May 2008
Scott Doak     10 December 2006 1 March 2007
Outside appointments for Executive Directors
Any outside appointments must be approved by the Board. It is the Company’s policy that remuneration earned from such 
appointments may be kept by the individual Executive Director. The external appointments of the Directors are noted below.
During 2009 Peter Whitbread received CAD$23,000; Nigel McCue received CAD$33,338 and £80,120; and Scott Doak received 
£10,400 in respect of these appointments. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
52
La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Director     Current Directorships
Peter Whitbread     Granjan Holdings
     Jura Energy Corporation
     Mavignon Shipping Limited
     Nemmoco Petroleum Limited
     Lamprell West Africa Limited
     Lamprell Energy Oil and Gas Limited
     PJ Developments Limited
     Smartways Investments Limited
Nigel McCue     Dragon Oil plc
     Dragon (Holdings) Limited
     Dragon Oil (Turkmenistan) Limited
     Jura Energy Corporation
     Frontier Holdings Limited
     Frontier Acquisition Company Limited
     Mavignon Shipping Limited
     Nemmoco Petroleum Limited
Scott Doak     Caledonian Developments (Dubai) Limited
     Caledonian Management (Dubai) Limited
     Caledonian Investments (Gulf) Limited
Non-Executive Directors’ fees and contracts
The Company aims to provide Non-Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with other companies of a similar size and 
complexity. The Company reviewed the Non-Executive fee structure during 2008 and determined to operate a fee structure with 
basic fees and additional fees for chairing a committee of the Board. The table below sets out the annual fees payable in respect 
of different roles and responsibilities:
Fee Category        £
Non-Executive Chairman        100,000
Senior Independent Director        75,000
Basic Member Fee        37,750
Committee Chair Fee (Excluding Nominations Committee)       7,000
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Company’s incentive schemes.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts, but instead have specific letters of appointment which are available 
upon request. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, terminable by either the Company or the 
Non-Executive Director at will. In normal circumstances, and subject to performance and re-election at the AGM, the Non-
Executive Directors can be asked to serve additional three-year terms. Upon termination or resignation, Non-Executive Directors 
are not entitled to compensation and no fee is payable in respect of the unexpired portion of the term of appointment.
The following table shows the date of the letter of appointment for each Non-Executive Director:
Non-Executive Director      Date of letter of appointment
Jonathan Silver      24 August 2007
Colin Goodall      14 September 2008
Richard Raynaut      7 July 2006
Brian Fredrick      14 September 2008
TSR performance graph
The following graph sets out the performance of the TSR of the Company relative to the Total Return of the FTSE Index of which 
the Company is a constituent, from the date the Company originally listed on the AIM (10 October 2006) to 31 December 2009. 
The graphs have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act and are not an indication of the likely vesting of awards 
granted under any of the Company’s incentive plans.
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
53
Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Corporate governance
Audited Information
Annual remuneration
The table below summarises Directors’ remuneration for the current and prior year for comparison. No payments for loss of office 
were made during the year to 31 December 2009.
     Allowance and 
    Fees and salary other benefits Annual Bonus Total 2009 Total 2008
Executive Directors
Peter Whitbread
 a
     $373,501 $116,824 $666,667 $1,156,992 $3,219,646
Nigel McCue
 b
    $386,625 $112,279 – $498,904 $893,844
Scott Doak     $331,181 $145,025 – $476,206 $937,751
David Moran
 c
    – $33,964 – $33,964 $914,382
Total    $1,091,307 $408,092 $666,667 $2,166,066 $5,965,623
Non-Executive Directors
Jonathan Silver    $139,208 – – $139,208 $67,602
Colin Goodall    $134,533 – – $134,533 $20,373
Richard Raynaut    $76,041 – – $76,041 $82,936
Brian Fredrick
 d   
 $66,368 – – $66,368 –
Nigel McCue    – – – – $30,426
Peter Birch 
c
    $11,550 – – $11,550 $174,588
Total    $427,700 – – $427,700 $375,925
a)  Peter Whitbread’s bonus reflects the pro-rata equivalent of USD 2 million per annum in respect of an agreed payment to remain as the CEO during 2009 and until a new CEO 
was appointed. The intention had been for Peter Whitbread to step down from this role in April 2008, however, this did not occur until 1 May 2009.
b)  Nigel McCue was appointed CEO with effect from 1 May 2009 and previously acted as a CEO from 16 May 2008. 
c)  David Moran and Peter Birch resigned from the Company on 2 November 2008 and 19 December 2008 respectively.
d) Brian Fredrick was appointed to the Board on 14 September 2008 with a start date of 1 January 2009.
Pension equivalents
The table below summarises the Executive Directors’ pension equivalent contributions for the current year, and the prior year for 
comparison.
       Total 2009 Total 2008
Executive Directors
Peter Whitbread       $53,629 $99,659
Nigel McCue       $14,688 $9,967
Scott Doak       $34,930 $17,601
Total       $103,247 $127,227
01/04/2007 01/10/2007 01/10/2006 01/04/08 01/10/08 01/04/09 01/10/09
Total Shareholder Return (based to 100)
Value of £100 Invested in October 2006 
Lamprell FTSE 250
Lamprell – TSR since AIM listing 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350 Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
54
La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligations 
at 31 December 2009 and 2008, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees’ end of service benefits payable 
under the UAE Labour Law. Under this method, an assessment has been made of an employee’s expected service life with the 
Group and the expected basic salary at the date of leaving the service. Management has assumed average increment/promotion 
costs of 4% to 5% (2008: 4% to 5%). The expected liability at the date of leaving the service has been discounted to its net present 
value using a discount rate of 5.75% (2008: 6%). 
Directors’ interests
The following interests of the Directors of the Company are shown in accordance with the Listing Rules:
      At  At At 
      26 March  31 December 1 January 
      2010  2009 2009
Executive Directors
Peter Whitbread      1,730,000 1,730,000 1,580,000
Nigel McCue      188,461 188,461 38,461
Scott Doak      130,725 108,000 8,000
Non-Executive Directors
Jonathan Silver      – – –
Colin Goodall      6,000 6,000 6,000
Richard Raynaut      – – –
Brian Fredrick      – – –
The table above does not include unvested interests held under the Company’s equity-based incentive schemes. These interests 
are set out separately below.
Awards made prior to the initial public offering
Lamprell Holdings Limited Share Option Plan
Prior to the Company’s listing on the AIM, a one-off grant of options was made to selected key employees of the Company, 
including the Executive Directors. These awards, in aggregate, accounted for approximately 5% of the Company’s share capital, 
and were satisfied with shares beneficially held by Steven Lamprell. The awards to the Executive Directors vested immediately on 
Admission, however, carried restrictions on how the shares could be disposed over the first two years following Admission. The 
table below sets out the interests of an Executive Director in the share options under the Lamprell Holdings Limited Share Option 
Plan, all of which were granted on 10 October 2006. 
  At     At 
  1 January   Exercised Lapsed 31 December 
Executive Director  2009 Exercise period Exercise price in year in year 2009
Peter Whitbread  1,550,000 10.10.2008
 
–
 
10.10.2010 nil nil nil 1,550,000
Share awards 
On 20 May 2008 and 10 January 2008 respectively, Nigel McCue and Scott Doak were granted conditional rights to receive 
shares at no cost. The earliest dates that the shares vest under the conditional rights are 20 May 2011 and 10 January 2010 
respectively. Receipt of the shares is conditional upon them remaining in employment with the Company until that date. 
The following table sets out the interests of Nigel McCue and Scott Doak in relation to their awards:
        At 
   At 1 January Granted Share price  Date of  31 December 
Executive Director   2009 in year at grant  vesting Vested 2009
Nigel McCue   70,000 nil £5.25 20.05.2011 nil 70,000
Scott Doak   22,275 nil £4.36 10.01.2010 nil  22,275
The share award to Scott Doak vested on 10 January 2010. On vesting an amount of £2,688 was paid which is equal to the 
aggregate amount of dividends that would have been paid on the shares to which they are entitled between the grant date and 
vesting date.
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
55
Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Corporate governance
Share option awards 
On 31 March 2009 Nigel McCue and Scott Doak were granted options under the ESOP. The earliest date that they will be 
entitled to receive the shares under the conditional rights are 31 March 2012. Receipt of the shares is conditional upon them 
remaining in employment with the Company until that date. In addition, Scott Doak was also granted an option under the ESOP on 
16 May 2007. 
The following table sets out the interests of Nigel McCue and Scott Doak in relation to their awards:
        At 
   1 January Granted Exercise Date of  31 December 
Executive Director   2009 in year price at grant vesting Vested 2009
Nigel McCue   nil 275,000 £0.57 31.03.2012 nil 275,000
Scott Doak   nil 275,000 £0.57 31.03.2012 nil  275,000
Scott Doak   19,585 nil £3.22 16.05.2010 nil  19,585
On vesting, the Options become exercisable and, subject to the rules of the ESOP, will remain exercisable until 31 March 2019 
(being the 10th anniversary of the grant date) for shares granted on 31 March 2009 and exercisable until 16 May 2017 (being the 
10th anniversary of the grant date) for shares granted on 16 May 2007. To the extent not exercised by those dates, the grants 
will lapse. 
Performance share plan awards
For the year ended 31 December 2009, Nigel McCue and Scott Doak were granted share awards under the PSP. The earliest date 
that they will be entitled to receive the shares under the conditional rights is 15 April 2013. Receipt of the shares is conditional 
upon them satisfying the performance conditions related to the PSP. 
The following table sets out the interests of Nigel McCue and Scott Doak in relation to their awards:
     Awarded 
    31 December for Exercise Date of 
Executive Director    2009 2009 price at grant vesting Vested
Nigel McCue    nil 190,211 nil 15.04.2013 nil 
Scott Doak    nil 97,163 nil 15.04.2013 nil
Awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant of the award, subject to any applicable performance 
conditions having been satisfied. If the Company achieves outstanding earnings per share performance over the performance 
period then the full award will vest. If threshold levels of performance are achieved then 25% of the award will vest. 
Share price information
On 31 December 2009, the closing price of a Lamprell plc ordinary share was 184.7 pence. The highest and lowest price of an 
ordinary share during 2009 was 226.2 pence and 57.25 pence respectively, based on the LSE Daily Official List.
Approval
This report was approved by the Committee, on behalf of the Board, on the date shown below and signed on the Board’s 
behalf by:
Brian Fredrick
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
26 March 2010 Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
56 56
Report on the financial statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated and parent company financial statements of Lamprell plc which comprise the 
consolidated and parent company balance sheets as of 31 December 2009 and the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income, consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity and consolidated and parent company cash flow 
statements for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
Directors’ responsibility for the financial statements
The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with applicable 
Isle of Man law and International Financial Reporting Standards. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and 
maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies; and making accounting 
estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. This report, including the opinion, has 
been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 15 of the Isle of Man Companies 
Act 1982 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. Those Standards require that 
we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement. 
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of 
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control 
relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal 
control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Company’s and Group’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the Combined Code (2008) specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does 
not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s or Group’s Corporate Governance procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
We also review whether the Directors’ Remuneration Report includes the six disclosures specified for our review by the Listing 
Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
Opinion
In our opinion:
 the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group as of  − 31 December 2009, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union;
 the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the parent company as of  − 31 December 2009, and of its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Acts 
1931-2004; and
 the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931-2004. − PricewaterhouseCoopers
Douglas, Isle of Man
26 March 2010
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of Lamprell plc La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
57 57 57
Financial statements
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
 Year ended 31 December
       2009 2008 
     Note  USD’000 USD’000
Revenue     5  425,518 740,831
Cost of sales     6  (363,669) (611,528)
Gross profit       61,849 129,303
Selling and distribution expenses     7  (1,322) (1,874)
General and administrative expenses:
 – share-based payments     8  (1,941) (8,059)
 – others     9  (28,325) (38,539)
       (30,266) (46,598)
Other (losses)/gains – net     12  (2,358) 1,631
Operating profit       27,903 82,462
Interest expense       (925) –
Interest income       1,445 2,993
Profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Company    28,423 85,455
Other comprehensive income
Currency translation differences       145 (47)
 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the equity  
 holders of the Company       28,568 85,408
Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the Company  13
Basic       14.28c 42.73c
Diluted       14.20c 42.59c 
The notes on pages 64 to 92 form an integral part of these financial statements.  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
58
Consolidated balance sheet
 As at 31 December
       2009 2008 
     Note  USD’000 USD’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment     16  97,690 92,354
Intangible asset     17  1,310 1,400
       99,000 93,754
Current assets
Inventories     19  43,060 20,506
Trade and other receivables     20  193,776 289,812
Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss     21  2,500 –
Derivative financial instruments     15  – 50
Cash and bank balances     23  67,842 97,824
       307,178 408,192
 
Total assets       406,178 501,946
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital and reserves
Share capital     24  18,682 18,682
Legal reserve     25  31 29
Merger reserve     27  (22,422) (22,422)
Translation reserve       98 (47)
Retained earnings       238,401 216,012
Total equity       234,790 212,254
Non-current liabilities
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits     28  15,150 14,329
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables     29  124,610 263,439
Borrowings     30  31,628 11,924
       156,238 275,363
 
Total liabilities       171,388 289,692
Total equity and liabilities       406,178 501,946
The financial statements on pages 57 to 63 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 March 2010 
and signed on its behalf by:
Nigel McCue Scott Doak
Chief Executive Officer and Director Chief Financial Officer and Director
The notes on pages 64 to 92 form an integral part of these financial statements. La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
59
Financial statements
Company balance sheet
 As at 31 December
       2009 2008 
     Note  USD’000 USD’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiaries     18  748,401 746,779
Current assets
Other receivables       5 30
Due from related parties     22  19,193 22,837
Cash at bank     23  107 125
       19,305 22,992
 
Total assets       767,706 769,771
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital and reserves
Share capital     24  18,682 18,682
Other reserve     26  708,852 708,852
Retained earnings       39,018 38,989
Total equity       766,552 766,523
Non-current liabilities
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits     28  592 758
Current liabilities
Other payables and accruals       562 2,490
Total liabilities       1,154 3,248
 
Total equity and liabilities       767,706 769,771
The financial statements on pages 57 to 63 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 March 2010 
and signed on its behalf by:
Nigel McCue Scott Doak
Chief Executive Officer and Director Chief Financial Officer and Director
The notes on pages 64 to 92 form an integral part of these financial statements. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
60
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
         
   Share Legal Merger Translation Retained 
   capital reserve reserve reserve earnings Total 
  Note USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
At 1 January 2008   18,654 24 (22,422) – 162,506 158,762
Profit for the year   – – – – 85,455 85,455
Other comprehensive income:
Currency translation difference   – – – (47) – (47)
Total comprehensive income for the year   – – – (47) 85,455 85,408
Transactions with owners:
Share-based payments:
 – shares issued  24 28 – – – (28) –
 – value of services provided  8 – – – – 8,059 8,059
Treasury shares purchased  24 – – – – (2,625) (2,625)
Transfer to legal reserve  25 – 5 – – (5) –
Dividends   11 – – – – (37,350) (37,350)
Total transactions with owners   28 5 – – (31,949) (31,916)
At 31 December 2008   18,682 29 (22,422) (47) 216,012 212,254
Profit for the year   – – – – 28,423 28,423
Other comprehensive income:
Currency translation difference   – – – 145 – 145
Total comprehensive income for the year   – – – 145 28,423 28,568
Transactions with owners:
Share-based payments:
 – value of services provided  8 – – – – 1,941 1,941
Treasury shares purchased  24 – – – – (1,689) (1,689)
Transfer to legal reserve  25 – 2 – – (2) –
Dividends   11 – – – – (6,284) (6,284)
Total transactions with owners   – 2 – – (6,034) (6,032)
At 31 December 2009   18,682 31 (22,422) 98 238,401 234,790
The notes on pages 64 to 92 form an integral part of these financial statements. La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
61
Financial statements
Company statement of changes in equity
     Share Other Retained 
     capital reserve earnings Total 
    Note USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
At 1 January 2008     18,654 708,852 31,161 758,667
Total comprehensive income for the year    31 – – 37,444 37,444
Transactions with owners:
Share-based payments:
 – shares issued     24 28 – (28) –
 – value of services provided    8 – – 4,594 4,594
 – investment in subsidiaries    8 – – 3,465 3,465
Treasury shares issued    24 – – (297) (297)
Dividends     11 – – (37,350) (37,350)
Total transactions with owners     28 – (29,616) (29,588)
At 31 December 2008     18,682 708,852 38,989 766,523
Total comprehensive income for the year    31 – – 6,579 6,579
Transactions with owners:
Share-based payments:
 – value of services provided    8 – – 319 319
 – investment in subsidiaries    8 – – 1,622 1,622
Treasury shares issued    24 – – (2,207) (2,207)
Dividends    11 – – (6,284) (6,284)
Total transactions with owners     – – (6,550) (6,550)
At 31 December 2009     18,682 708,852 39,018 766,552
The notes on pages 64 to 92 form an integral part of these financial statements. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
62
Consolidated cash flow statement
 Year ended 31 December
       2009 2008 
     Note  USD’000 USD’000
Operating activities
Profit for the year        28,423 85,455
Adjustments for:
Share-based payments – value of services provided     8  1,941 8,059
Depreciation      16  13,186 9,756
Amortisation of intangible asset     17  90 90
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment    12  (33) 5
Fair value loss on financial asset at fair value through profit or loss   21  2,500 –
Unrealised fair value loss on derivative financial instruments      – 31
Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories     19  207 195
Provision for impairment of trade receivables, net     14  100 2,741
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits      28  3,173 5,300
Interest expense       925 –
Interest income       (1,445) (2,993)
Operating cash flows before payment of employees’ end of service benefits and  
 changes in working capital       49,067 108,639
Payment of employees’ end of service benefits     28  (2,352) (711)
Changes in working capital:
 Inventories before movement in provision      19  (22,761) (13,996)
 Trade and other receivables before movement in provision for impairment of trade receivables 20  95,936 (142,603)
 Trade and other payables excluding unpaid dividend    29  (138,854) 66,112
 Derivative financial instruments       50 883
 Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss before fair value adjustment  21  (5,000) –
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities      (23,914) 18,324
Investing activities
Payments for property, plant and equipment     16  (18,483) (54,444)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment      92 95
Interest income       1,445 2,993
Deposit with original maturity of more than three months    23  (3,847) –
Movement in margin deposits     23  695 3,456
Net cash used in investing activities       (20,098) (47,900) 
Financing activities
Treasury shares purchased     24  (1,689) (2,625)
Dividends paid     11  (6,259) (37,484)
Borrowings – revolving facility     30  11,854 10,693
Interest expense       (925) –
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities      2,981 (29,416) 
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents       (41,031) (58,992)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the year       90,225 149,264
Exchange rate translation       47 (47)
Cash and cash equivalents, end of the year      23  49,241 90,225
The notes on pages 64 to 92 form an integral part of these financial statements. La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
63
Financial statements
Company cash flow statement
 Year ended 31 December
       2009 2008 
     Note  USD’000 USD’000
Operating activities
Profit for the year        6,579 37,444
Adjustments for:
Share-based payments – value of services provided     8  319 4,594
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits      28  103 207
Dividends received from LEL       (6,284) (37,350)
Interest income       – (2)
Operating cash flows before payment of employees’ end
 of service benefits and changes in working capital       717 4,893
Payment of employees’ end of service benefits     28  (269) –
Changes in working capital:
 Other receivables       25 29
 Other payables and accruals       (1,928) 2,490
 Due from related parties     22  3,644 (7,039)
Net cash generated from operating activities       2,189 373 
Investing activities
Dividends received from LEL       6,284 37,350
Interest income       – 2
Net cash generated from investing activities       6,284 37,352
Financing activities
Treasury shares issued     24  (2,207) (297)
Dividends paid     11  (6,284) (37,350)
Net cash used in financing activities       (8,491) (37,647) 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents      (18) 78
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the year       125 47
Cash and cash equivalents, end of the year      23  107 125
The notes on pages 64 to 92 form an integral part of these financial statements. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
64
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2009
1 Legal status and activities
Lamprell plc was incorporated and registered on 4 July 2006 in the Isle of Man as a public company limited by shares under the Isle 
of Man Companies Acts with the registered number 117101C. The Company acquired 100% of the legal and beneficial ownership in 
LEL from LHL, under a share for share exchange agreement dated 25 September 2006 and this transaction was accounted for in 
the consolidated financial statements using the uniting of interests method (Note 27). The Company was admitted to the AIM of the 
London Stock Exchange with effect from 16 October 2006. From 6 November 2008, the Company moved from AIM and was 
admitted to trading on the LSE plc’s main market for listed securities. The address of the registered office of the Company is 15–19 
Athol Street, Douglas, Isle of Man and the Company is managed from the UAE. The address of the principal place of the business is 
PO Box 33455, Dubai, UAE. 
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are: the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs; fabrication; 
assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas sector, including jackup rigs; FPSO and other offshore and 
onshore structures; and oilfield engineering services, including the upgrade and refurbishment of land rigs. 
The Company has either directly or indirectly the following subsidiaries:
    Percentage Percentage 
    of legal of beneficial  
    ownership ownership Country of 
Name of the subsidiary    % % incorporation
Lamprell Energy Limited     100 100 Isle of Man
Lamprell Dubai LLC    49* 100 UAE
Lamprell Sharjah WLL    49* 100 UAE
Maritime Offshore Limited    100 100 Isle of Man
Maritime Offshore Construction Limited    100 100 Isle of Man
International Inspection Services Limited    100 100 Isle of Man
Cleopatra Barges Limited     100 100 British Virgin Islands
Lamprell plc employee benefit trust    100 † Unincorporated
Jebel Ali Investments Limited     100 100 British Virgin Islands
Lamprell Energy FZCo     90
+
 100 UAE
Lamprell Asia Limited (incorporated on 14 May 2008)    100
++
 100 Thailand
 
* The balance of 51% in each case is registered in the name of a UAE National who has assigned all the economic benefits attached to his shareholding to the Group entity. LEL 
has the power to exercise control over the financial and operating policies of the entities incorporated in the UAE through management agreements and accordingly, these 
entities are consolidated as wholly owned subsidiaries in these consolidated financial statements. The UAE National shareholders of these entities receive sponsorship fees 
from the Group (Note 22).
†
 The beneficiaries of the EBT are the employees of the Group. 
+
 A UAE FZCo is required to have a minimum of two shareholders and consequently, the balance of 10% is held by an employee of LEL in trust for the beneficial interest of the 
Group.
++
 A Thailand registered company is required to have a minimum of three shareholders and consequently, of the total 867,000 shares, two shares are held by employees of the 
Lamprell Group in trust for the beneficial interest of the Group and the balance of 866,998 shares are held by LE FZCo. 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated and parent company financial statements are 
set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the financial statements of the parent Company have been prepared  
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union (“EU”), IFRIC and the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931–2004. In 
accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 1982, the Company has not presented its own income  
statement. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the 
accounting policies below. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated and 
parent company financial statements are disclosed in Note 4. 
  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
65
Financial statements
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.1 Basis of preparation (continued)
(a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
The following new standards and amendments to standards are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 
1 January 2009: 
IAS 1 (revised), ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’. The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income and 
expenses (that is “non-owner changes in equity”) in the statement of changes in equity, requiring “non-owner changes in equity” 
to be presented separately from owner changes in equity. All “non-owner changes in equity” are required to be shown in a 
performance statement. Entities can choose whether to present one performance statement (the statement of comprehensive 
income) or two statements (the income statement and statement of comprehensive income). The Group has elected to present 
one performance statement: a consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The financial statements have been prepared 
under the revised disclosure requirements. 
IAS 23 (Amendment), ‘Borrowing Costs’ (effective from 1 January 2009). In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets 
for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly 
attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset. The Group 
previously recognised all borrowing costs as an expense immediately. This change in accounting policy was due to the adoption 
of IAS 23 (Revised), ‘Borrowing Costs’ in accordance with the transition provisions of the standard; comparative figures have not 
been restated. The change in accounting policy had no material impact on earnings per share. 
IAS 39 and IFRS 7 (Amendments) – ‘Reclassification of Financial Assets’ (effective from 1 January 2009). The amendment allows 
for the reclassification of certain financial assets previously classified as “held-for-trading” or “available-for-sale” to another financial 
asset category under limited circumstances. Various disclosures are required where a reclassification has been made. The 
application of the new amendment does not have any material impact on the Group financial statements.
IFRS 2 (Amendment), ‘Share-Based Payment’. The amended standard deals with vesting conditions and cancellations. It clarifies 
that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only. Other features of a share-based payment are not 
vesting conditions. These features would need to be included in the grant date fair value for transactions with employees and 
others providing similar services; they would not impact the number of awards expected to vest or valuation thereof subsequent to 
grant date. All cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment. The Group 
has applied the amendment and it had no material impact on the Group financial statements.
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments – Disclosures’ (Amendment) (effective from 1 January 2009). The amendment requires enhanced 
disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk. In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value 
measurements by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy. As the change in accounting policy only results in additional 
disclosures, there is no impact on earnings per share.
IFRS 8, ‘Operating Segments’. IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14, ‘Segment Reporting’. It requires a ‘management approach’ under which 
segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes. Operating segments are 
reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating 
decision-maker has been identified as the Executive Directors who make strategic decisions. Note 5 provides further details and 
disclosures relating to segment reporting.
Improvements to IFRSs. The ‘Improvements to IFRSs’ represents a number of non-urgent changes in standards, basis of 
conclusions and guidance. The improvements include changes in presentation, recognition and measurement plus terminology 
and editorial changes. These changes have not had a material impact for the Group.
(b) Standards and amendments that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group
The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Group’s 
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 or later periods, but the Group has not early adopted them: 
Amendment to IAS 24 – ‘Related Party Disclosures’ (effective from 1 January 2011). This amendment is subject to EU endorsement. 
The amendment simplifies the definition of a related party and provides a partial exemption from the disclosure requirements for 
government-related entities. The Group will adopt the amendment from 1 January 2011, subject to EU endorsement. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
66
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.1 Basis of preparation (continued)
(b) Standards and amendments that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group (continued)
IFRS 3 (revised), ‘Business Combinations’ (effective from 1 July 2009). The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition 
method to business combinations, with some significant changes. For example, all payments to purchase a business are to be 
recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently remeasured through the 
income statement. There is a choice on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree 
at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. All acquisition-related costs should 
be expensed. The Group will apply IFRS 3 (revised) prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010.
IFRS 9, ‘Financial Instruments’ (effective from 1 January 2013). The new standard is still subject to EU endorsement. The new 
standard addresses classification and measurement of financial assets. IFRS 9 replaces the multiple classification models in IAS 
39 with a single model that has only two classification categories: amortised cost and fair value. Classification under IFRS 9 is 
driven by the entity’s business model for managing financial assets and the contractual characteristics of the financial assets. 
IFRS 9 removes the requirement to separate embedded derivatives from financial asset hosts. IFRS 9 removes the cost exemption 
for unquoted equities. The Group will apply IFRS 9 from 1 January 2013, subject to EU endorsement.
Improvements to IFRSs, (effective for financial periods beginning on various dates). The International Accounting Standards Board 
has issued the “Improvements to IFRSs 2009” standard which amends 10 standards, basis of conclusions and guidance, and two 
interpretations based on the exposure drafts issued in October 2007 and August 2008. The improvements include changes in 
presentation, recognition and measurement plus terminology and editorial changes. The Improvements are subject to EU 
endorsement. The Group has reviewed the “Improvements to IFRSs”, subject to EU endorsement, and anticipates that these will 
not have a material impact for the Group.
(c)  Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are effective but currently not relevant to the Group 
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the 
Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods, but not relevant to the Group:
IAS 32 (Amendment), ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’, and IAS 1 (Amendment), ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ – 
‘Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation’ (effective from 1 January 2009). The amended standards 
require entities to classify puttable financial instruments and instruments, or components of instruments that impose on the entity 
an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation as equity, provided the 
financial instruments have particular features and meet specific conditions. The new amendment is currently not applicable to 
the Group.
IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 (Amendments) – ‘Embedded Derivatives’ (effective from 1 January 2009). The amendments extend the 
circumstances in which reassessment of whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated from a host contract and 
accounted for as a derivative and whether a reclassification out of the “fair value through profit and loss” category is permitted. 
The new amendments are currently not applicable to the Group.
IFRS 1 (Amendment) ‘First Time Adoption of IFRS’ and IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ (effective from 
1 January 2009). The amended IFRS 1 allows first-time adopters to use a deemed cost of either fair value or the carrying amount 
under previous accounting practice to measure the initial cost of investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and 
associates in the separate financial statements. The amendment also removes the definition of the cost method from IAS 27 and 
replaces it with a requirement to present dividends as income in the separate financial statements of the investor. The amendment 
is not applicable to the Group as it has already adopted IFRS.
IFRIC 13, ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’ (effective from 1 January 2009). IFRIC 13 clarifies that where goods or services are sold 
together with a customer loyalty incentive (for example, loyalty points or free products), the arrangement is a multiple-element 
arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer is allocated between the components of the arrangement 
using fair values. IFRIC 13 is not relevant to the Group’s operations because none of the Group’s companies operate any 
loyalty programmes.
IFRIC 15, ‘Agreements for Construction of Real Estate’ (effective from 1 January 2009). The interpretation clarifies whether IAS 18, 
‘Revenue’, or IAS 11, ‘Construction Contracts’ should be applied to particular transactions. It is likely to result in IAS 18 being 
applied to a wider range of transactions. IFRIC 15 is not relevant to the Group’s operation as the Group is not in the business of 
construction of real estate.  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
67
Financial statements
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.1 Basis of preparation (continued)
(c)  Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are effective but currently not relevant to the Group 
(continued)
IFRIC 16, ‘Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation’ (effective from 1 January 2009). IFRIC 16 clarifies the accounting 
treatment in respect of net investment hedging. This includes the fact that net investment hedging relates to differences in 
functional currency not presentation currency, and hedging instruments may be held anywhere in the Group. The requirements of 
IAS 21, ‘The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates’, do apply to the hedged item. The interpretation is currently not 
applicable to the Group. 
(d)  Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and not relevant to the Group 
IAS 27 (Revised), ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ (effective from 1 July 2009). The revised standard requires the 
effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these 
transactions will no longer result in goodwill on acquisitions from non-controlling interests or gains and losses on disposals to 
non-controlling interests. The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost. Any remaining interest in the entity is 
remeasured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. The Group will apply IAS 27 (revised) prospectively to 
transactions with non-controlling interests from 1 January 2010. The revision is currently not applicable to the Group, as there are 
no non-controlling interests.
Amendment to IAS 32 – ‘Classification of Rights Issues’ (effective from 1 February 2010). The amendment addresses the 
accounting for rights issues (rights, options or warrants) that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of 
the issuer. Previously such rights issues were accounted for as derivative liabilities. However, the amendment requires that, 
provided certain conditions are met, such rights are classified as equity regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is 
denominated. The amendment is currently not applicable to the Group.
IAS 39 (Amendment) – Eligible hedged items, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ (effective from 1 July 2009). 
This amendment to IAS 39 clarifies how the principles that determine whether a hedged risk or portions of cash flows is eligible for 
designation as a hedged item or items should be applied. The amendment is currently not applicable to the Group.
IFRS 1 (Revised), ‘First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’ (effective from 1 July 2009). The current 
IFRS 1 has been amended many times to accommodate first time adoption requirements of new and amended IFRSs, resulting in 
a more complex and less clear standard. This revised version retains the substance of the original standard but with a changed 
structure. The revised IFRS 1 is not applicable to the Group as it has already adopted IFRS.
Amendments to IFRS 1 – ‘Additional Exemptions for First-Time Adopters’ (effective from 1 January 2010). The amendment is 
subject to EU endorsement. The amendment introduces additional exemptions for entities that are transitioning to IFRS. The 
amendment is not applicable to the Group as it has already adopted IFRS.
IFRS 2 (Amendment) – ‘Group Cash-Settled Share-Based Payment Transactions’ (effective from 1 January 2010). The amendment 
is still subject to EU endorsement. The amendment clarifies the scope and the accounting for Group cash-settled share-based 
payment transactions in the separate financial statements of the entity receiving the goods or services when that entity has no 
obligation to settle the share-based payment transactions. The amendment also incorporates the guidance contained in IFRIC 8 
and IFRIC 11. As a result the IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11 have been withdrawn. The amendment is currently not applicable to the Group 
as the Group does not have any cash-settled share-based payment transactions. 
Amendment to IFRIC 14, ‘Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement’ (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2012). The amendment is still subject to EU endorsement. The amendment removes an unintended consequence of 
IFRIC 14 related to voluntary pension prepayments when there is a minimum funding requirement. The interpretation is currently 
not applicable to the Group.
IFRIC 17, ‘Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners’ (effective from 1 July 2009). This interpretation applies to transactions in 
which an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends. The IFRIC also 
clarifies when an entity should recognise a dividend payable, i.e. when the dividend is appropriately authorised and no longer at 
the discretion of the entity. The interpretation is currently not applicable to the Group. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
68
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.1 Basis of preparation (continued)
(d)  Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and not relevant to the Group 
(continued)
IFRIC 18, ‘Transfers of Assets from Customers’ (effective from 1 July 2009). This interpretation applies to agreements in which an 
entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment (or an amount of cash which must be used to construct 
or acquire an item of property, plant and equipment) that the entity must use either to connect the customer to a network or to 
provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services, or do both. The interpretation is currently not 
applicable to the Group.
IFRIC 19, ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments’ (effective from 1 July 2010). IFRIC 19 requires a gain or loss to 
be recognised in profit or loss when a liability is settled through the issuance of the entity’s own equity instruments. The 
Interpretation is still subject to EU endorsement. The interpretation is currently not applicable to the Group.
2.2 Revenue recognition
(a) Contract revenue
Contract revenue is recognised under the percentage-of-completion method. When the outcome of the contract can be reliably 
estimated, revenue is recognised by reference to the proportion that accumulated costs up to the year end bear to the estimated 
total costs of the contract. When the contract is at an early stage and its outcome cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is 
recognised to the extent of costs incurred up to the year end which are considered recoverable.
Revenue related to variation orders is recognised when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the amount 
of revenue arising from the variation can be reliably measured.
A claim is recognised as contract revenue when settled or when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is 
probable that the customer will accept the claim and the amount can be measured reliably.
Losses on contracts are assessed on an individual contract basis and provision is made for the full amount of the anticipated 
losses, including any losses relating to future work on a contract, in the period in which the loss is first foreseen.
The aggregate of the costs incurred and the profit/loss recognised on each contract is compared against progress billings at the 
year end. Where the sum of the costs incurred and recognised profit or recognised loss exceeds the progress billings, the balance 
is shown under trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts. Where the progress billings exceed the sum of 
costs incurred and recognised profit or recognised loss, the balance is shown under trade and other payables as amounts due to 
customers on contracts.
In determining contract costs incurred up to the year end, any amounts incurred relating to future activity on a contract are 
excluded and are presented as contract work-in-progress. 
(b) Inspection services
Revenue from inspection services is recognised when the services have been rendered; the customer has accepted the service 
and the collectability of the related receivable are reasonably assured.
(c) Interest income
Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using the effective interest rate method.
2.3 Consolidation
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally 
accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group, except for acquisitions 
involving entities under common control, which are accounted for using the uniting of interests method. The cost of an acquisition 
under the purchase method is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or 
assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination under the purchase method are measured initially at their fair values at 
the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
69
Financial statements
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.3 Consolidation (continued)
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as 
goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the Group’s share of the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the 
difference is recognised directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Business combinations involving entities under common control do not fall within the scope of IFRS 3. Consequently, the Directors 
have a responsibility to determine a suitable accounting policy. The Directors have decided to follow the uniting of interests 
method for accounting for business combinations involving entities under common control.
Under the uniting of interests method, there is no requirement to fair value the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities and 
hence no goodwill is created as balances remain at book value. Consolidated financial statements include the profit or loss and 
cash flows for the entire year (pre and post merger) as if the subsidiary had always been part of the Group. The aim is to show the 
combination as if it had always been combined.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised 
losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries 
have been changed or adjustments have been made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, where necessary, to ensure 
consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
2.4 Investment in subsidiaries
In the Company’s separate financial statements, the investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost less provision for impairment. Cost 
is the amount of cash paid or the fair value of the consideration given to acquire the investment. Income from such investments is 
recognised only to the extent that the Company receives distributions from accumulated profits of the investee company arising 
after the date of acquisition. Distributions received in excess of such profit i.e. from pre-acquisition reserves are regarded as a 
recovery of investment and are recognised as a reduction of the cost of the investment.
2.5 Foreign currency translation 
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The Group’s activities are primarily carried out from the UAE 
and its currency the UAE Dirham, which is pegged to the US Dollar, is the functional currency of all the entities in the Group 
(except LAL whose functional currency is the Thailand Baht and the EBT whose functional currency is the British Pound). The 
consolidated and parent company financial statements are presented in US Dollars.
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at 
year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income.
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that 
have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; − income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates for the year; and − all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity. − On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, are taken to 
shareholders’ equity. When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity 
are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as part of the gain or loss on sale. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
70
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.6 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. The cost of property, plant and equipment is the 
purchase cost, together with any incidental expenses of acquisition. Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis over the 
expected useful economic lives of the assets as follows:
        Years
Buildings        10–20
Operating equipment        3–10
Fixtures and office equipment        3–5
Motor vehicles        5
The assets’ residual values, if significant, and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is 
probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured 
reliably. All repairs and maintenance are charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income during the financial 
period in which they are incurred.
Capital work-in-progress is stated at cost. When commissioned, capital work-in-progress is transferred to property, plant and 
equipment and depreciated in accordance with Group policies.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its 
recoverable amount. 
Gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by reference to their carrying amounts and are 
taken into account in determining operating profit. 
2.7 Intangible assets
Intangible assets representing operating leasehold rights are carried at cost (being the fair value on the date of acquisition where 
intangibles are acquired in a business combination) less accumulated amortisation and impairment, if any. Amortisation is 
calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the leasehold right over its estimated useful life (17 years).
2.8 Inventories
Inventories comprise raw materials and consumables which are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. 
Cost is determined on the weighted average basis and comprises direct purchase and other costs incurred in bringing the 
inventories to their present location and condition.
2.9 Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. Significant 
financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or 
delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective 
interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in 
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income within “general and administrative expenses – others”. When a trade 
receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts 
previously written off are credited against “general and administrative expenses – others” in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income.
2.10 Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
71
Financial statements
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.11 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the 
amount of the obligation can be made.
2.12 Employee benefits
(a) Provision for staff benefits 
A provision is made for the estimated liability for employees’ entitlements to annual leave and related benefits as a result of 
services rendered by the employees up to the balance sheet date. Provision is also made, using actuarial techniques, for the end 
of service benefits due to employees in accordance with the UAE Labour Law for their periods of service up to the balance sheet 
date. The provision relating to annual leave and leave passage is disclosed as a current liability and included in trade and other 
payables, while that relating to end of service benefits is disclosed as a non-current liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in assumptions are charged or credited in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. 
(b) Share based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services 
received in exchange for the grant of the shares/options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed over the 
vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares/options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market 
vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions 
about the number of shares/options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the 
number of shares/options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the 
income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to Retained earnings.
The Company has granted rights to its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary companies conditional upon the 
completion of continuing service with the Group for a specified period. The total amount of the grant over the vesting period is 
determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted and is recognised in each period as an increase in the 
investment in the subsidiary with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings. In the separate financial statements of the 
subsidiary, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the equity instruments of the Company (i.e. 
parent) is recognised as an expense with a corresponding credit to Equity.
2.13 Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.14 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current accounts with banks less margin deposits, other short-term highly 
liquid investments with original maturity of less than three months and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet. 
2.15 Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised 
cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the repayment value is recognised in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. The Group capitalises 
borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that 
asset. The Group previously recognised all borrowing costs as an expense.
2.16 Dividend distribution
Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the Group’s consolidated and parent company financial statements in the 
period in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders.
2.17 Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-
maker. The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and accessing performance of the 
operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Directors that make strategic decisions.  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
72
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.18 Taxation
The Company, which is incorporated in the Isle of Man is taxable at 0% in the Isle of Man. 
The Group is subject to income tax in respect of its operations through LAL in Thailand which was incorporated in May 2008. 
However, LAL has been granted the ‘Investment promotion certificate’ (effective 25 November 2008) which exempts LAL from 
Corporate Income Tax on net profit derived from the promoted activity for a period of eight years.
The Group is not currently subject to income tax in respect of its operations carried out in the UAE. 
2.19 Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables. 
Currently, the Group does not have any held to maturity and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the 
purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at 
initial recognition.
 
(a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category 
if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they 
are designated as hedges. The Group has not classified any derivatives as hedges in a hedging relationship. Assets in this 
category are classified as current assets.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed 
in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows 
from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards 
of ownership.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the “financial assets at fair value through profit or loss” category are 
presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income within “other (losses)/gains – net” in the period in which 
they arise.
(b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. These are 
classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise trade receivables (Note 2.9), other receivables 
(excluding prepayments) and cash and cash equivalents (Note 2.14) in the Group balance sheet and amounts due from related 
parties (Note 22) and cash at bank (Note 23) in the Company balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost less 
provision for impairment. The amortised cost is computed using the effective interest method. 
 
Loans and receivables are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the counterparty have expired or have been 
transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of the ownership.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial 
assets is impaired.
2.20 Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts (e.g. sales contracts) are treated as separate 
derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts. Such derivative financial 
instruments are stated at fair value with movements in fair value recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
The fair value of the resulting (embedded) forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange 
rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
73
Financial statements
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.21 Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying 
amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its 
value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately 
identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). Non-financial assets that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal 
of the impairment at each reporting date. Any material impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income and separately disclosed.
2.22 Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in 
equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any 
directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders 
until the shares are cancelled or reissued. Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any 
directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the 
Company’s equity holders.
3 Financial risk management 
3.1 Financial risk factors 
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange, cash flow interest rate risk), 
credit risk and liquidity risk. These risks are evaluated by management on an ongoing basis to assess and manage critical 
exposures. The Group’s liquidity and market risks are managed as part of the Group’s treasury activities. Treasury operations are 
conducted within a framework of established policies and procedures. 
(a) Market risk – foreign exchange risk
The Group does not have any significant foreign currency exposure, as the majority of the revenue and purchases are 
denominated in US Dollars or UAE Dirhams which is pegged to the US Dollar. 
(b) Market risk – cash flow interest rate risk
The Group holds its surplus funds in short-term bank deposits. During the year ended 31 December 2009, if interest rates on 
deposits had been 0.5% higher/lower, the interest income would have been higher/lower by USD 293,000 (2008: USD 549,000). 
The Group does not have any long-term borrowings and does not have significant interest rate risk exposure on bank overdrafts 
and revolving term facilities.
(c) Credit risk
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is detailed in Notes 15, 20 and 23. The Group has a policy for dealing with customers with an 
appropriate credit history. The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banks, and trade 
receivables. The Group has a formal procedure of monitoring and follow up of customers for outstanding receivables. For banks 
and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of “A” are accepted. The Group assesses 
internally the credit quality of each customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had a significant concentration of credit risk with nine of its largest customer balances 
accounting for 82% (2008: 85%) of trade receivables outstanding at that date. Management believes that this concentration of 
credit risk is mitigated as the Group has long-standing relationships with these customers. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
74
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
3 Financial risk management (continued)
3.1 Financial risk factors (continued)
(c) Credit risk (continued)
The table below shows the rating and balance of the 13 major counterparties at the balance sheet date.
      2009  
||
 2008
     External  External  
Counterparty     rating
+
 USD’000  rating
+
 USD’000
Bank A     AA+ 5,281 AA 29,821
Bank B     A+ 5,153 AA– 61,454
Bank C     A+ 734 A+ 4,756
Bank D     A 56,283 A 1,592
      67,451  97,623
+
 Based on Standard & Poor’s/Fitch long-term ratings.
      2009  
||
 2008
     Internal  Internal  
     rating
++
 USD’000 rating
++
 USD’000
Customer 1      Group A 60,000 Group B 70,666
Customer 2      Group A 11,535 Group B 8,480
Customer 3      Group C 6,247 Group A 4,662
Customer 4     Group B 5,189 Group A 4,303
Customer 5     Group C 3,459 Group C 3,284
Customer 6     Group B 3,330 Group B 3,116
Customer 7     Group A 3,283 Group C 3,090
Customer 8     Group B 3,078 Group B 2,773
Customer 9     Group C 2,773 Group A 2,678
      98,894  103,052
++
 Refer to Note 15 for the description of internal ratings.
The above counterparties in 2009 are not necessarily the same counterparties in 2008.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties, except for one customer with a balance 
of USD 2.8 million at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 which has been fully provided for.
(d) Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an adequate amount 
of committed credit facilities. Due to the nature of the underlying business and through progress billings, the Group maintains 
adequate bank balances to fund its operations.
Management monitors the forecast of the Group’s liquidity position on the basis of expected cash flow. 
The Group is currently financed from Shareholders’ equity and borrowings. All contractual commitments for financial liabilities are 
due within 12 months from the balance sheet date.
3.2 Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to 
provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure. Total capital for 
the Group and the Company is calculated as “total equity” as shown in the Consolidated balance sheet and in the Company 
balance sheet respectively.
Presently, the Group has a dividend policy which takes into account the Group’s capital requirements, cash flows and earnings. 
At the balance sheet date the Group has no net debt and was therefore ungeared. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
75
Financial statements
4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
4.1 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom 
equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
Revenue recognition 
The Group uses the percentage-of-completion method in accounting for its contract revenue. Use of the percentage-of-
completion method requires the Group to estimate the stage of completion of the contract to date as a proportion of the total 
contract work to be performed in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.2. As a result, the Group is required to 
estimate the total cost to completion of all outstanding projects at each period end. The application of a 10% sensitivity to 
management estimates of the total costs to completion of all outstanding projects at the year end would result in the revenue and 
profit increasing by USD 4.7 million (2008: USD 14 million) if the total costs to completion are decreased by 10% and the revenue 
and profit decreasing by USD 4.4 million (2008: USD 12.9 million) if the total costs to completion are increased by 10%.
Employee’s end of service benefits
The rate used for discounting the employees’ post employment defined benefit obligation should be based on market yields on 
high quality corporate bonds. In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market yields on government bonds 
should be used. In the UAE, there is no deep market either for corporate or government bonds and therefore, the discount rate 
has been estimated using the US AA-rated corporate bond market as a proxy. On this basis, the discount rate applied was 5.75% 
(2008: 6%). If the discount rate used was to differ by 0.5 points from management’s estimates, the carrying amount of the 
employee’s end of the service benefits provision at the balance sheet date would be an estimated USD 0.5 million (2008: USD 0.4 
million) lower or USD 0.5 million (2008: USD 0.6 million) higher. 
5 Segment information 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-
maker. The chief operating decision-maker has been identified as the Executive Directors who make strategic decisions. The 
Executive Directors review the Group’s internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources. Management has 
determined the operating segments based on these reports.
The Executive Directors consider the business mainly on the basis of the facilities from where the services are rendered. 
Management considers the performance of the business from Sharjah (“SHJ”), Hamriyah (“HAM”), Jebel Ali (“JBA”) and Thailand 
(“THL ”) in addition to the performance of Oil Field Engineering (“OFE”) and Inspec. 
SHJ, HAM, JBA and OFE meet all the aggregation criteria required by IFRS 8 and are reported as a single segment (Segment A). 
Services provided from Inspec and THL do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8, and the results of these 
operations are included in the “all other segments” column. 
The reportable operating segments derive their revenue from the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs, fabrication, 
assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas sector, including FPSO and other offshore and onshore 
structures, oilfield engineering services, including the upgrade and refurbishment of land rigs. 
Inspec derives its revenue from various services such as non-destructive pipeline testing, ultrasonic testing and heat treatment. 
THL derives its revenue from the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs, fabrication, assembly and new build 
construction for the offshore oil and gas sector and other offshore structures. 
  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
76
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
5 Segment information (continued)
       All other  
      Segment A segments Total 
      USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
Year ended 31 December 2009
Total segment revenue      406,425 20,232 426,657
Inter-segment revenue       – (1,139) (1,139)
Revenue from external customers      406,425 19,093 425,518
Gross operating profit      75,973 5,927 81,900
Year ended 31 December 2008
Total segment revenue      728,734 14,477 743,211
Inter-segment revenue       (933) (1,447) (2,380)
Revenue from external customers      727,801 13,030 740,831
Gross operating profit      159,700 4,239 163,939
Sales between segments are carried out on agreed terms. The revenue from external parties reported to the Executive Directors is 
measured in a manner consistent with that in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Executive Directors assess the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of gross profit. The staff, 
equipment and certain subcontract costs are measured based on standard cost. The measurement basis excludes the effect of 
the common expenses for yard rent, repairs and maintenance and other miscellaneous expenses. The reconciliation of the gross 
profit is provided as follows:
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Gross operating profit for the reportable segments as reported to the Executive Directors   75,973 159,700
Gross operating profit for other segments as reported to the Executive Directors    5,927 4,239
Unallocated:
Under-absorbed employee and equipment costs       (9,913) (16,379)
 Repairs and maintenance        (4,494) (8,668)
 Yard rent        (3,343) (1,268)
 Others       (2,301) (8,321)
Gross profit        61,849 129,303
Selling and distribution expenses       (1,322) (1,874)
General and administrative expenses       (30,266) (46,598)
Other (losses)/gains – net       (2,358) 1,631
Interest expense       (925) –
Interest income       1,445 2,993
Profit for the year       28,423 85,455
 
Information about segment assets and liabilities is not reported to or used by the Executive Directors and accordingly, no 
measures of segment assets and liabilities are reported.
Breakdown of the revenue from all the services is as follows:
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
New build activities       226,461 385,589
Upgrade and refurbishment activities       146,235 250,995
Offshore construction       37,921 91,217
Other services       14,901 13,030
       425,518 740,831
The entity is domiciled in the UAE. The total revenue from external customers in respect of services performed in the UAE is 
USD 404 million (2008: USD 741 million), and the total revenue from external customers from other countries is USD 22 million 
(2008: USD Nil).  La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
77
Financial statements
5 Segment information (continued)
Certain customers individually accounted for greater than 10% of the Group’s revenue, shown in the table below: 
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
External customer A        118,128 184,058
External customer B        63,207 168,681
External customer C        47,196 –
       228,531 352,739
The revenue from these customers is attributable to Segment A. The above customers in 2009 are not necessarily the same 
customers in 2008.
6 Cost of sales
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Materials and related costs       125,257 254,969
Staff costs (Note 10)       92,719 100,507
Sub-contract costs       91,460 162,126
Sub-contract labour       13,375 36,326
Depreciation (Note 16)       9,238 6,891
Equipment hire       6,882 16,502
Repairs and maintenance       5,085 9,134
Yard rent       3,425 1,307
Others       16,228 23,766
       363,669 611,528
7 Selling and distribution expenses
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
  
Advertisement and marketing       592 512
Entertainment        171 172
Travel       376 802
Others       183 388
       1,322 1,874
8 General and administrative expenses – share-based payments
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Proportionate amount of share based charge for the year:
– relating to shares gifted/granted in 2006       – 5,301
– relating to deferred share award in 2006       – 1,331
– relating to free share plan       1,791 1,337
– relating to executive share option plan       150 90
       1,941 8,059
Shares gifted/granted in 2006
On 10 October 2006, LHL agreed with selected Directors and management personnel of the Group to gift a total of 9,311,996 
shares of Lamprell plc. The fair value, computed based on the Company’s share price on 11 October 2006 (£1.95), amounted to 
USD 33.9 million. The vesting of these shares was conditional upon the continued employment of the Director/management 
personnel concerned and these shares accrue dividends which are also transferred to employees on vesting. In the event of the 
vesting condition not being satisfied by the employees, the respective shares and the accumulated dividend revert to LHL. As part 
of the arrangements, 3,266,414 shares vested immediately in 2006, 2,212,721 shares vested during 2007 and the balance 
3,832,861 shares vested in 2008. During 2008, a charge of USD 5.3 million was recognised in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income with a corresponding credit to the consolidated Retained earnings. This included a charge recognised in 
the statement of comprehensive income of the Company with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings of USD 3.1 million. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
78
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
8 General and administrative expenses – share-based payments (continued)
Deferred share award in 2006
On 16 October 2006, the Company also granted a Director a deferred share award that gives him an entitlement to receive a 
certain number of shares equivalent to USD 3 million at no cost. The award, subject to the satisfaction of a performance target 
and continued employment, will normally vest in three equal tranches on the announcement of the Company’s final results for 
each of the financial years ended 31 December 2007, 2008 and 2009. The performance target related to the growth in the 
Company’s earnings per share. The number of shares awarded under this scheme, computed based on the Company’s share 
price on 11 October 2006 (£1.95), was 828,689. The performance target for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 was 
achieved and, following the announcement of the Company’s final results in March 2008, one third of the shares (276,230 shares) 
vested and was issued to the Director, along with 3,079 shares relating to the dividend entitlement on those shares (Note 24). In 
accordance with the terms of the award, the balance of 552,459 shares vested on 1 January 2009 following the resignation of the 
Director as he was considered a “good leaver” and were issued out of treasury shares together with 24,385 shares relating to the 
dividend entitlement on those shares. Accordingly, in 2008, the Group and Company each recognised a charge of USD 1.3 million 
in the statement of comprehensive income with the corresponding credit to Retained earnings.
Free share plan
The Company awarded shares to selected Directors, key management personnel and employees under the free share plan that 
provides an entitlement to receive these shares at no cost. These free shares are conditional on the Directors/key management 
personnel/employee completing a specified period of service (the vesting period). The award does not have any performance 
conditions and does not entitle participants to dividend equivalents during the vesting period (except for 92,725 shares awarded to 
two Directors during 2008 which entitles them to dividend equivalents during the vesting period). The fair value of the share 
awards made under this plan is based on the share price at the date of the grant less the value of the dividends foregone during 
the vesting period. The details of the shares granted under this scheme are as follows:
        Expected 
    Number  Vesting Fair value withdrawal 
Grant date    of shares  period per share rate
2007    
16 May 2007    99,365 18 months £3.16 5%
2008    
10 January 2008    99,337  24 months £4.00 5%
7 April 2008    25,301  24 months £3.96 5%
27 April 2008    123,620  18 months £4.28 5%
20 May 2008    70,000  36 months £5.08 5%
    318,258   
2009
22 January 2009    600,000  24 months £0.89 5%
15 April 2009    763,052  18 months £0.94 5%
    1,363,052
In addition, 18,241 shares which vested immediately were issued to an employee during the year following his resignation as he 
was considered a “good leaver”. 
Accordingly, a charge of USD 1,791,000 (2008: USD 1,337,000) is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income for the year with a corresponding credit to the consolidated Retained earnings. This includes a charge recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income of the Company with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings of USD 0.2 million (2008: 
USD 0.2 million).
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to settle the free share awards in cash. La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
79
Financial statements
8 General and administrative expenses – share-based payments (continued)
Free share plan (continued)
An analysis of the number of shares gifted/granted, vested during the year and expected to vest in future periods is provided below:
        Number of 
        shares
Shares expected to vest in future periods at 1 January 2008      4,754,042
Shares gifted under free share plan        318,258
Shares vested and released out of shares gifted by LHL        (3,825,989)
Shares vested and issued out of treasury shares        (85,294)
Shares vested and new shares issued        (276,230)
Shares lapsed during the year due to non satisfaction of vesting conditions      (14,070)
Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2008      870,717
Shares gifted under free share plan        1,381,293
Shares relating to dividend entitlement on deferred share award       24,385
Shares vested and issued out of treasury shares        (724,251)
Shares lapsed during the year due to non satisfaction of vesting conditions      (34,996)
Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2009      1,517,148
The shares are expected to vest as follows:
 Number of shares
Year       2009 2008
2009       – 694,320
2010       847,148 106,397
2011       670,000 70,000
       1,517,148 870,717
Executive share option plan
Share options are granted by the Company to certain employees under the executive share option plan. This option plan does not 
entitle the employees to dividends. These options are conditional on the employee completing three years of service (the vesting 
period) and hence the options are exercisable starting three years from the grant date and have a contracted option term of 10 
years. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash.
The movement in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise price are as follows:
   Average 
   exercise 
   price in £ per  
   share Options Vesting date Expiry date
At 1 January 2008 and 2009     3.22 105,369 16 May 2010 16 May 2017
Granted in 2009    0.57 550,000 31 March 2012 31 March 2019
Forfeited in 2009   3.22 (19,585)
At 31 December 2009    0.93 635,784
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year determined using a binomial valuation model was £0.28 per 
option. The significant inputs into the model were an average share price for a period of one year immediately preceding the grant 
date of £2.91, an exercise price of £ 0.57, volatility of 50%, dividend yield of 3.31%, an expected option term of 10 years, an annual 
risk-free interest rate of 3.28% and a withdrawal rate of 5% per annum. The risk free rate is derived from the yield on UK 
Government Bonds as detailed by the Bank of England, using a 10 year maturity in line with the life of the option. The volatility 
assumption is based on an analysis of the historic daily share price volatility of the Company since its listing date, capped at 50%. 
A charge of USD 150,000 (2008: USD 90,000) is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year 
with a corresponding credit to the consolidated Retained earnings. This includes a charge recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income of the Company with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings of USD 73,000 (2008: USD 17,000). Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
80
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
9 General and administrative expenses – others
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Staff costs (Note 10)       15,977 21,312
Utilities and communication       2,409 2,348
Depreciation (Note 16)       3,948 2,865
Others       5,991 12,014
       28,325 38,539
Other expenses for the prior year included an amount of USD 3.4 million incurred mainly towards various legal and professional 
charges in connection with the admission of Lamprell plc to the official list of the LSE and a provision for doubtful debts of USD 
2.8 million (Notes 14 and 20). 
10 Staff costs
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Wages and salaries        59,647 73,631
Employees’ end of service benefits (Note 28)       3,173 5,300
Share based payments – value of services provided (Note 8)      1,941 8,059
Other benefits       45,876 42,888
       110,637 129,878
Staff costs are included in:
Cost of sales (Note 6)       92,719 100,507
General and administrative expenses – share based payments (Note 8)     1,941 8,059
General and administrative expenses – others (Note 9)      15,977 21,312
       110,637 129,878
Number of employees at 31 December        4,515 5,447
Directors’ remuneration comprises:
     Share based 
     payments – 
     value of Post 
   Allowances  services employment 
 Salary Fees  & benefits Bonus provided benefits Total Total 
 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 
 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
Executive Directors
Nigel McCue* 387 – 112 – 204 14 717 1,013
Peter Whitbread** 373 – 117 667 – 54 1,211 5,256
Scott Doak 331 – 145 – 115 35 626 1,048
David Moran*** – – 34 – – – 34 3,510
Non-Executive Directors
Jonathan Silver
^
 – 139 – – – – 139 68
Colin Goodall
^^
 – 135 – – – – 135 20
Richard Raynaut – 76 – – – – 76 83
Brian Fredrick
^^^
 – 66 – – – – 66 –
Peter Birch
+
 – 12 – – – – 12 175
Nigel McCue* – – – – – – – 30
 1,091 428 408 667 319 103 3,016 11,203
* Appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 1 May 2009 and served as Chief Operating Officer with effect from 16 May 2008 following resignation as a Non–Executive Director. 
** Appointed as Director of International Development on 1 May 2009 and served as Chief Executive Officer until 1 May 2009. 
*** Appointed as a Director on 4 July 2006 and served as Chief Operating Officer until 15 May 2008 and resigned with effect from 1 January 2009. 
^ 
 Appointed as Chairman of the Company on 27 March 2009 and has served as a Non-Executive Director since 24 August 2007.
^^
 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 14 September 2008.
^^^ 
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2009.
+
 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 7 July 2006 and resigned with effect from 19 December 2008. La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
81
Financial statements
10 Staff costs (continued)
The emoluments of the highest paid Director were USD 1.2 million (2008: USD 5.3 million) and these principally comprised salary, 
benefits and bonus (and share based payments in 2008). The bonus of USD 0.7 million was paid in respect of an agreement to 
remain as the Group’s Chief Executive Officer. 
11 Dividends 
During the year (on 27 March 2009), the Board of Directors of the Company approved dividends of USD 6.3 million 
(US cents 3.15 per share) relating to 2008. At 31 December 2009, the unpaid dividend amounted to USD 34,000 (Note 29).
During 2008, (on 25 March 2008 and 26 September 2008), the Board of Directors of the Company approved dividends of 
USD 37.3 million comprising USD 24.5 million (US cents 12.25 per share) relating to 2007 and an interim dividend of 
USD 12.8 million (US cents 6.40 per share) for 2008. At 31 December 2008, unpaid dividends amounted to USD 9,000 (Note 29).
12 Other (losses)/gains – net
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Fair value loss on financial asset at fair value through profit or loss (Note 21)    (2,500) –
Fair value gain on derivative financial instruments (net)      – 192
Profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment      33 (5)
Insurance reimbursement for damages to property, plant and equipment and inventory    – 833
Others       109 611
       (2,358) 1,631
13 Earnings per share
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding ordinary shares purchased by the company and held as 
treasury shares (Notes 8 and 24).
(b) Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume 
conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. For the free share awards, options under executive share option plan and 
deferred share award, a calculation is done to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value 
(determined as the average annual market share price of the Company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the subscription 
rights attached to outstanding share awards/options. The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of 
shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share awards/options.
      2009  2008 
      USD’000  USD’000
 The calculations of earnings per share are based on the   following profit and  
 numbers of shares:
Profit for the year      28,423  85,455
 Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share   199,105,090 200,010,565
Adjustments for:
Assumed exercise of free share awards      843,477  75,778
 Assumed exercise of options under the executive share option plan    199,030  –
Assumed vesting of deferred share awards       –  576,844
 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share   200,147,597 200,663,187
Earnings per share:
Basic      14.28c  42.73c
Diluted      14.20c  42.59c  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
82
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
14 Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging:
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Depreciation       13,186 9,756
Auditor’s remuneration – audit services       419 419
Auditor’s remuneration – non-audit services readmission to the LSE      – 677
Auditor’s remuneration – taxation and other services       21 37
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings       18,849 9,988
Provision for impairment of trade receivables       101 2,778
Release of provision for impairment of trade receivables (Note 20)     (1) (37)
       100 2,741
15 Financial instruments by category
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below:
Group
       Assets at 
       fair value 
      Loans and through 
      receivables profit or loss Total 
      USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
31 December 2009
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss      – 2,500 2,500
Trade receivables       118,204 – 118,204
Other receivables excluding prepayments      4,193 – 4,193
Cash and bank balances      67,842 – 67,842
Total      190,239 2,500 192,739
       Assets at 
       fair value 
      Loans and through 
      receivables profit or loss Total 
      USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
31 December 2008
Derivative financial instruments      – 50 50
Trade receivables      117,729 – 117,729
Other receivables excluding prepayments      4,381 – 4,381
Cash and bank balances      97,824 – 97,824
Total      219,934 50 219,984
Derivative financial instruments in 2008 represents an embedded derivative arising in respect of a sale contract (Note 2.20).
 Liabilities at amortised cost
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Trade payables       53,035 83,778
Other payables and accruals       51,358 105,552
Borrowings       31,628 11,924
Total       136,021 201,254 La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
83
Financial statements
15 Financial instruments by category (continued)
Company
 Loans and receivables
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Cash at bank       107 125
Due from related parties       19,193 22,837
Total       19,300 22,962
 Liabilities at amortised cost
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Other payables and accruals       562 2,490
Credit quality of financial assets
Group
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to historical information 
about counterparty default rates:
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Trade receivables  
Group A       79,547 6,648
Group B       10,557 15,706
Group C       4,621 4,116
       94,725 26,470
Derivative financial assets
Group A       – 50
Group A – Last six months average debtor days is less than 45.
Group B – Last six months average debtor days is between 46 and 90.
Group C – Last six months average debtor days is above 90.
None of the financial assets that is fully performing has been renegotiated in the last year. 
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Cash at bank and short-term bank deposits
Standard & Poor/Fitch ratings
AA+       5,281 –
AA       – 29,821
AA-       41 61,470
A+       5,887 4,756
A       56,283 1,592
A–       – 7
BBB       208 –
       67,700 97,646
Cash in hand       142 178
Cash at bank and on hand       67,842 97,824 Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
84
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
15 Financial instruments by category (continued)
Company
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Due from related parties       19,193 22,837
Due from related parties is neither past due nor impaired.
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Cash at bank
Standard & Poor ratings
AA–       – 125
A       107 –
       107 125
16 Property, plant and equipment
      
     Fixtures,  Capital 
    Operating and office Motor work-in- 
   Buildings equipment equipment vehicles progress Total 
   USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000 USD’000
Cost
At 1 January 2008   16,155 45,028 7,183 2,698 3,059 74,123
Additions   2,669 21,689 2,326 1,494 26,266 54,444
Transfers   514 1,014 66 – (1,594) –
Disposals   – (20) (739) (352) – (1,111)
At 31 December 2008   19,338 67,711 8,836 3,840 27,731 127,456
Additions   501 2,872 929 233 13,948 18,483
Exchange difference   6 27 25 – 41 99
Transfers   1,334 1,796 56 – (3,186) –
Disposals   – (677) (126) (145) – (948)
At 31 December 2009   21,179 71,729 9,720 3,928 38,534 145,090
Depreciation
At 1 January 2008   5,146 15,369 4,571 1,271 – 26,357
Charge for the year   1,239 6,798 1,193 526 – 9,756
Disposals   – (13) (659) (339) – (1,011)
At 31 December 2008   6,385 22,154 5,105 1,458 – 35,102
Charge for the year   1,499 9,244 1,758 685 – 13,186
Exchange difference   – 1 – – – 1
Disposals   – (633) (126) (130) – (889)
At 31 December 2009   7,884 30,766 6,737 2,013 – 47,400
Net book amount
At 31 December 2009   13,295 40,963 2,983 1,915 38,534 97,690
At 31 December 2008   12,953 45,557 3,731 2,382 27,731 92,354
Buildings have been constructed on land leased, on a renewable basis, from various Government Authorities. The remaining lives 
of the leases range between three to seven years. The Group has renewed these land leases, upon expiry, in the past and its 
present intention is to continue to use the land and renew these leases for the foreseeable future.
A depreciation expense of USD 9,238,000 (2008: USD 6,891,000) has been charged to cost of sales and USD 3,948,000 (2008: 
USD 2,865,000) to general and administrative expenses – others (Notes 6 and 9). La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
85
Financial statements
17 Intangible asset
The intangible asset represents a favourable operating leasehold right acquired upon the acquisition of JIL and LE FZCo in 2007. 
The value of the intangible asset has been determined by calculating the present value of the expected future economic benefits 
to arise from the favourable lease term (17 years).
        USD’000
Cost
At 1 January 2008, 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2009      1,534
Amortisation
At 1 January 2008        44
Charge for the year        90
At 31 December 2008        134
Charge for the year        90
At 31 December 2009        224
Net book amount
At 31 December 2009        1,310
At 31 December 2008        1,400
18 Investment in subsidiaries
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Balance at 1 January       746,779 743,314
Effect of share-based payments to employees of subsidiaries under IFRIC 11    1,622 3,465
       748,401 746,779
The Company granted free shares/share options to employees of its subsidiaries under various plans (Note 8). These shares and 
options have a vesting period of 18 to 36 months. Accordingly, the proportionate share-based charge for the year of USD 1.6 
million (2008: USD 3.5 million) has been recorded as an increase in investment in subsidiaries with a corresponding credit to 
Retained earnings.
19 Inventories
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Raw materials and consumables       43,809 11,494
Goods in transit       – 9,554
Less: Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories      (749) (542)
       43,060 20,506
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in contract costs amounted to USD 14.8 million (2008: USD 22.4 
million). In the opinion of the Directors, the replacement cost of the inventories does not differ significantly from its carrying value.
20 Trade and other receivables
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Trade receivables       120,999 120,517
Other receivables and prepayments       10,715 16,385
Advances to suppliers        4,492 22,239
       136,206 159,141
Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables       (2,795) (2,788)
       133,411 156,353
Amounts due from customers on contracts       16,389 103,846
Contract work in progress (Note 2.2)       43,976 29,613
       193,776 289,812 Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
86
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
20 Trade and other receivables (continued)
Amounts due from customers on contracts comprise: 
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Costs incurred to date       209,337 426,803
Attributable profits        53,601 112,237
       262,938 539,040
Less: Progress billings       (246,549) (435,194)
       16,389 103,846
An analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Fully performing       94,725 26,470
Past due but not impaired       23,479 91,259
Impaired       2,795 2,788
       120,999 120,517
Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are generally not considered impaired. As of 31 December 2009, trade 
receivables of USD 23.5 million (2008: USD 91.3 million) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of independent 
customers for whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Up to 3 months       17,335 84,318
3 to 6 months       4,953 6,117
Over 6 months       1,191 824
       23,479 91,259
At 31 December 2009, trade receivables of USD 2.8 million (2008: USD 2.8 million) were impaired and provided for. The 
individually impaired receivables mainly relate to customers who are in an unexpectedly difficult economic situation. The ageing of 
these receivables is as follows:
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Up to 3 months       – 2,772
Over 6 months       2,795 16
       2,795 2,788
Group
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are primarily denominated in US Dollars or UAE Dirhams, which 
is pegged to the US Dollar. 
Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
At 1 January       2,788 87
Provision for receivables impairment (Note 14)       101 2,778
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible      (93) (40)
Unused amounts reversed (Note 14)       (1) (37)
At 31 December       2,795 2,788 La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
87
Financial statements
20 Trade and other receivables (continued)
The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in general and administrative expenses 
– others in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (Note 9). Amounts charged to the allowance account are 
generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. With 
respect to a receivable from one customer amounting to USD 60 million (2008: USD 71 million), the Group retains ownership of the 
new build unit under construction and the related procured materials.
The carrying value of trade receivables approximates to their fair value.
21 Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Unlisted equity security       2,500 –
On 27 November 2009, LEL subscribed for 28 million shares in BassDrill amounting to USD 5 million at the subscription price of 
USD 0.1786 per share. LEL entered into an option agreement with certain shareholders of BassDrill granting LEL the option to sell 
the BassDrill shares after 12 months at an option price of USD 0.0893 plus three month LIBOR + 3% per annum. Further LEL also 
granted certain shareholders of BassDrill the option to purchase the BassDrill shares held by LEL in the period starting from the 
date of issuance and ending after 24 months at an option price of USD 0.1786 plus three month LIBOR + 3% per annum. 
During the year a fair value loss of USD 2.5 million was recorded in “other (losses)/gains – net” (Note 12) in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income based on management’s estimate of the carrying value. 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are presented within “operating activities” as part of changes in working capital 
in the consolidated cash flow statement.
22 Related party balances and transactions 
Related parties comprise LHL (which owns 33% of the issued share capital of the Company), certain legal shareholders of the 
Group companies, Directors and key management personnel of the Group. Related parties for the purpose of the parent company 
financial statements also include subsidiaries owned directly or indirectly. Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial 
statements, the Group entered into the following significant transactions during the year with related parties at prices and on terms 
agreed between the related parties: 
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Key management compensation       5,946 16,482
Sponsorship fees paid to legal shareholders of LD and LS (Note 1)     141 139
Key management compensation comprises:
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits       4,621 10,868
Share-based payments – value of services provided       1,007 5,064
Post-employment benefits       318 550
       5,946 16,482 Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
88
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
22 Related party balances and transactions (continued)
Due from related parties
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Company
LEL (receivable in respect of management fees charged by the Company)     17,202 20,504
EBT*        1,991 2,333
       19,193 22,837
* Includes USD 1,810,926 (2008: USD 2,328,296) due in respect of payments made for treasury shares acquired by EBT on behalf of the Group.
Further, the Company has provided performance guarantees on behalf of its subsidiary. These guarantees, issued in the normal 
course of business, are outstanding at the year end and no outflow of resources embodying economic benefits in relation to these 
guarantees is expected by the Company.
Dividends paid by the Company include an amount of USD 2.2 million (2008: 13.1 million) in respect of shares held by key 
management personnel (including those held by the EBT in respect of shares gifted) of which USD 2.1 million (2008: 12.3 million) 
was paid to LHL, a company controlled by Steven Lamprell who is a member of key management. 
23 Cash and bank balances
Group
        2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Cash at bank and on hand       18,336 21,112
Short-term and margin deposits       49,506 76,712
Cash and bank balances       67,842 97,824
Less: Margin deposits       (5,673) (6,368)
Less: Deposit with original maturity of more than three months      (3,847) –
Less: Bank overdrafts (Note 30)       (9,081) (1,231)
Cash and cash equivalents (for cash flow purpose)       49,241 90,225
At 31 December 2009 and 2008, the cash at bank and short-term deposits were held with seven banks. The effective interest rate 
on short-term deposits was 2.46% (2008: 2.79%) per annum. These deposits have an average maturity of seven days to three 
months with the exception of one deposit of USD 3.8 million which has been placed for four months. The margin deposits with the 
bank are held under lien against guarantees issued (Note 33).
Company
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held with one bank.
24 Share capital
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares
Company
       Equity share capital
       Number USD’000
At 1 January 2008       200,000,000 18,654
Issued on 26 March 2008 in connection with a deferred share award granted on  
 16 October 2006 (Note 8)       279,309 28
At 31 December 2008 and 2009      200,279,309 18,682
The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 400 million shares (2008: 400 million shares) with a par value of 5 pence per 
share (2008: 5 pence per share).
On 26 March 2008, the Company issued 279,309 shares at a nominal value of £ 0.05 per share by debiting the Retained earnings. 
These shares, which include 3,079 shares relating to dividend entitlement, were issued to a Director of the Company, following the 
satisfactory fulfilment of the vesting condition, set out in the deferred share award granted on 16 October 2006 (Note 8). La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
89
Financial statements
24 Share capital (continued)
During 2009, EBT acquired 1,391,253 shares (2008: 754,551 shares) of the Company. The total amount paid to acquire the shares 
was USD 1.7 million (2008: USD 2.6 million) and has been deducted from the Consolidated Retained earnings. Of the above, 
724,251 shares (2008: 85,294 shares) amounting to USD 2.2 million (2008: USD 0.3 million) were issued to employees on vesting 
of the free shares and 1,336,259 shares (2008: 669,257 shares) are held as treasury shares at 31 December 2009. The Company 
has the right to reissue these shares at a later date. These shares will be issued on the vesting of the free shares/share options 
granted to certain employees of the Group (Note 8).
25 Legal reserve 
The Legal reserve of USD 31,436 (2008: USD 29,436) relates to subsidiaries incorporated as limited liability companies in the UAE. 
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the respective subsidiaries and the UAE Federal Law No. (8) of 1984, as 
amended, 10% of the profit for the year of such companies is transferred to a Legal reserve. Such transfers are required to be 
made until the reserve is equal to, at least, 50% of the issued share capital of such companies. During the year, an amount of USD 
2,000 (2008: USD 5,359) was transferred to the Legal reserve.
26 Other reserve
The Other reserve of USD 708,852,000 represents the difference between the cost of the investment in LEL (USD 727,506,000) 
and the nominal value of Share capital issued by the Company to acquire LEL (USD 18,654,000). The Other reserve is not 
available for distribution. 
27 Merger reserve
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Nominal value of shares of the Company       18,654 18,654
Share capital of LEL       (82) (82)
Merger reserve on acquisition of LEL       18,572 18,572
Purchase consideration relating to acquisition of Inspec      4,000 4,000
Share capital of Inspec       (150) (150)
Merger reserve on acquisition of Inspec       3,850 3,850
Total       22,422 22,422
On 11 September 2006, LEL acquired 100% of the legal and beneficial ownership of Inspec from LHL for a consideration of USD 4 
million. This acquisition has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method and the difference between the purchase 
consideration (USD 4 million) and the share capital of Inspec (USD 150,000) has been recorded in the Merger reserve. 
On 25 September 2006, the Company entered into a share for share exchange agreement with LEL and LHL under which it 
acquired 100% of the 49,003 shares of LEL from LHL in consideration for the issue to LHL of 200 million shares of the Company. 
This acquisition has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method and the difference between the nominal value of 
shares issued by the Company (USD 18,654,000) and the nominal value of LEL shares acquired (USD 82,000) has been recorded 
in the Merger reserve.
28 Provision for employees’ end of service benefits
In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligations 
at 31 December 2009 and 2008, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees’ end of service benefits payable 
under the UAE Labour Law. Under this method, an assessment has been made of an employee’s expected service life with the 
Group and the expected basic salary at the date of leaving the service. Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
90
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009
28 Provision for employees’ end of service benefits (continued)
The movement in the employees’ end of service benefit liability over the year is as follows:
Group
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
At 1 January       14,329 9,740
Current service cost       2,762 2,293
Interest cost       960 707
Actuarial (gains)/losses       (384) 2,300
Curtailments       (165) –
Benefits paid       (2,352) (711)
At 31 December       15,150 14,329
Company
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
At 1 January       758 551
Current service cost       30 53
Interest cost       17 29
Actuarial losses       56 125
Benefits paid       (269) –
At 31 December       592 758
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
Group
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Current service cost       2,762 2,293
Interest cost       960 707
Actuarial (gains)/losses       (384) 2,300
Gain on curtailments       (165) –
Total (included in staff costs) (Note 10)       3,173 5,300
Of the total charge, USD 2.6 million (2008: USD 4.1 million) and USD 0.6 million (2008: USD 1.2 million) are included in cost of 
sales and general and administrative expenses – others respectively.
Company
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Current service cost       30 53
Interest cost       17 29
Actuarial losses       56 125
Total (included in staff costs)       103 207
The above charge of USD 0.1 million (2008: USD 0.2 million) is included in general and administrative expenses – others. La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
91
Financial statements
28 Provision for employees’ end of service benefits (continued)
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows:
       2009 2008
Discount rate       5.75% 6.00%
Future salary increase:
 Management and administrative employees       5.00% 5.00%
 Yard employees       4.00% 4.00%
Due to the nature of the benefit, which is a lump-sum payable on exit for any cause, a combined single decrement rate has been 
used as follows:
 Percentage of employees  
 at each age exiting  
 the plan per year
Age       2009 2008
Management, yard and administrative employees:
Below 20 years:       0% 0%
 20–29 years       15% 15%
 30–39 years       10% 10%
 40–59 years       7% 7%
 60 years and above       100% 100%
Executive directors:
 40–64 years       7% 7%
 65 years and above       100% 100%
29 Trade and other payables
       2009 2008 
       USD’000  USD’000
Trade payables       53,035 83,778
Other payables and accruals       51,358 105,552
Amounts due to customers on contracts       20,183 72,479
Advances received for contract work       – 1,621
Dividend payable
++
 (Note 11)       34 9
       124,610 263,439
Amounts due to customers on contracts comprise:
Progress billings       250,892 375,806
Less: Cost incurred to date       (213,733) (247,401)
Less: Attributable profits       (16,976) (55,926)
       20,183 72,479
++
  The dividend payable represents an amount held by the EBT in respect of treasury shares. This dividend will be paid by the EBT to the employees upon completion of the 
vesting period.
30 Borrowings
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Bank overdrafts       9,081 1,231
Revolving facilities       22,547 10,693
       31,628 11,924
The bank facilities relating to overdrafts and revolving facilities carry interest at one to three months LIBOR/EIBOR + 2.0% to 3.5%.
The carrying amounts of borrowings approximate to their fair value and are denominated in US Dollars or UAE Dirhams, which is 
pegged to the US Dollar.  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
92
31 Profit of the Company
The profit of USD 6,579,000 (2008: USD 37,444,000) in respect of the Company has been included in these consolidated 
financial statements.
32 Commitments
(a) Operating lease commitments
The Group leases land and staff accommodation under various operating lease agreements. The remaining lease terms of the 
majority of the leases are between seven to 24 years and are renewable at mutually agreed terms. The future minimum lease 
payments payable under operating leases are as follows:
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Not later than one year       7,826 6,063
Later than one year but not later than five years       13,019 14,001
Later than five years       33,728 36,321
       54,573 56,385
(b) Other commitments
       2009 2008 
       USD’000 USD’000
Letters of credit for purchase of materials and operating equipment     13,285 11,326
Capital commitments for purchase of operating equipment      929 3,215
Capital commitments for construction of facilities       18,262 25,413
33 Bank guarantees
       2009 2008 
       USD’000  USD’000
Performance/bid bonds       112,319 135,903
Advance payment, labour visa and payment guarantees      5,882 14,147
       118,201 150,050
The various bank guarantees, as above, were issued by the Group’s bankers in the ordinary course of business. Certain 
guarantees are secured by 100% cash margins, assignments of receivables from some customers and, in respect of guarantees 
provided by banks to the Group companies, they have been secured by parent company guarantees. In the opinion of the 
Directors, the above bank guarantees are unlikely to result in any liability to the Group.
34 Events after balance sheet date
The Board of Directors of the Company has proposed a dividend of 3.80 cents per share amounting to USD 7.6 million at a 
meeting held on 26 March 2010. In accordance with the accounting policy under IFRS set out at Note 2.16, this dividend has not 
been accrued at 31 December 2009 (2009: 3.15 cents per share amounting to USD 6.3 million declared on 27 March 2009 was 
not accrued at 31 December 2008). In the prior year, this was not in accordance with the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 – 
2004 which required such a proposed dividend to be accrued at the balance sheet date. However, following the Isle of Man 
Companies (Amendment) Act 2009 the law has been amended such that proposed dividends should not be recognised until paid 
or approved by the shareholders.
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2009 Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
93
Financial statements
The following definitions apply throughout this document 
unless the context requires otherwise:
“Admission” – the admission of the entire issued ordinary 
share capital of the Company to AIM becoming effective in 
accordance with paragraph 6 of the AIM Rules
“AGM” – Annual General Meeting
“AIM” – Alternative Investment Market – a market operated by 
London Stock Exchange Plc
“API” – American Petroleum Institute 
“BassDrill” – BassDrill Alpha Limited
“Board” or “Directors” – the Board of Directors of the 
Company
“CAD” – Canadian Dollars
“CEO” – Chief Executive Officer
“CFO” – Chief Financial Officer
“CSR” – Corporate Social Responsibility
“Company” – Lamprell plc
“COO” – Chief Operating Officer
“DBMA” – Don Bosco Maritime Academy
“EBITDA” – Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and 
Amortisation
“EBT” – Lamprell plc Employee Benefit Trust
“EPC” – Engineering, Procurement and Construction
“EPS” – Earnings Per Share
“ESOP” – Lamprell plc Executive Share Option Plan
“FPSO” – Floating, Production, Storage and Offloading 
“FTSE” – Financial Times Stock Exchange index
“FZCo” – Free Zone Company
“Group” – The Company and its subsidiaries
“HSE” – Health, Safety and Environment 
“IAS” – International Accounting Standards 
“IFRIC” – International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee interpretation 
“IFRS” – International Financial Reporting Standards
“Inspec” – International Inspection Services Limited
“IPO” – Initial Public Offering
“ISO” – International Organisation for Standards
“KPI” – Key Performance Indicators
“Labour Law” – Labour Law (Federal Law No.8 of 1980 
(as amended))
“LAL” – Lamprell Asia Limited
“Lamprell” – the Company and its subsidiary undertakings 
“LD” – Lamprell Dubai LLC
“LEL” – Lamprell Energy Limited
“LHL” – Lamprell Holdings Limited 
“LS” – Lamprell Sharjah WLL
“LSE” – London Stock Exchange Limited
“LTDS” – LeTourneau Technologies Drilling Systems Inc.
“LTI” – Lost Time Incident 
“Mercer” – Mercer Consulting Middle East Limited
“PSP” – Lamprell plc 2008 Performance Share Plan
“Saipem” – Saipem Energy Services S.p.A
“SBM” – Single Buoy Moorings
“Scorpion” – Scorpion Offshore Limited
“Seajacks” – Seajacks International Limited 
“Transocean” – Transocean Investments S.a.r.l
“TSR” – Total Shareholder Return
“UAE” – the Federation of the United Arab Emirates
“United States” or “US” – the United States of America
Definitions Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
94
Notes Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
95
Financial statements
Notes Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
96
Notes Lamprell plc is a leading 
contractor in the Arabian Gulf, 
providing specialist services to 
the offshore and onshore oil 
and gas industry.
The principal markets in which Lamprell operate are: 
 new build construction of jackup rigs and liftboats  −
and upgrade and refurbishment of jackup rigs; and,
other new build construction for the offshore oil and  −
gas sector including FPSO, tender assist drilling 
units and other offshore and onshore structures.
Lamprell is also involved in providing oilfield  −
engineering services, including the new build 
construction, upgrade and refurbishment of  
land rigs.
Contents
Business overview
01 Highlights
02 Lamprell at a Glance
04 Chairman’s Statement
06 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Business review
10 Continuous Growth
12 Diversifying our Core Offering
14 Customer Satisfaction
16 Our Strategy
18 Operating Review
22 Risk Factors
24 Financial Review
28 Corporate Social Responsibility
32 Directors’ Biographies
Corporate governance
34 Directors’ Report
38 Corporate Governance
46 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial statements
56 Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of Lamprell plc
57 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
58 Consolidated Balance Sheet
59 Company Balance Sheet
60 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
61 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
62 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
63 Company Cash Flow Statement
64 Notes to the Financial Statements
93 Definitions
IBC Corporate Advisers
Corporate Advisers
Broker
J.P. Morgan Cazenove Limited
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA 
UK
Legal Advisers to the Company
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street 
London EC4Y 1HS 
UK
Clyde & Co. 
PO Box 7001 
City Tower 2
Sheikh Zayed Road 
Dubai 
UAE
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Sixty Circular Road 
Douglas
Isle of Man IM1 1SA
Principal Bankers
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
PO Box 3766
Dubai
UAE
Registrars
Capita Registrars (Isle of Man) Limited
3rd Floor, Exchange House
54–62 Athol Street
Douglas
Isle of Man IM1 1JD
UK Transfer Agent
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham BR3 4TU
UK Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Registered Office:
15–19 Athol Street
Douglas
Isle of Man
IM1 1LB
Operations:
PO Box 5427
Dubai
United Arab Emirates
Telephone: +971 6 5282323
Fax: +971 6 5284325
Email: lamprell@lamprell.com
Website: www.lamprell.com
Lamprell plc
Annual report and accounts 
2009 
