 Lamprell plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2013
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Focused 
on delivery
Lamprell plc
Registered Office:
Fort Anne
Douglas
Isle of Man
IM1 5PD
Operations:
PO Box 33455
Dubai
United Arab Emirates
Tel: +971 6 528 2323
Fax: +971 6 528 4325
Email: lamprell@lamprell.com
www.lamprell.com  
Platform for 
Development
Overview
01 Highlights
02 Lamprell at a Glance
04 Chairman’s Statement 
08 A Year in Review
Strategic Report
10 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
14 Market Overview 
16 Strategy
18 Financial Review
22 Business Review
26 Principal Risks & Uncertainties
30 Sustainability Report
Corporate Governance
34 Board of Directors
36 Directors’ Report
39 Corporate Governance Report 
49 Directors’ Remuneration Report
50  Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report
56 Directors’ Annual Report on Remuneration
Financial Statements
62 Independent auditor’s report to 
the members of Lamprell plc
63 Consolidated income statement
64 Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
65 Consolidated balance sheet
66 Company balance sheet
67 Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
68 Company statement of 
changes in equity
69 Consolidated cash flow statement
70 Company cash flow statement
71 Notes to the financial statements
106 Definitions
Lamprell, based in the United Arab Emirates 
(UAE) and with operations throughout the 
region, has played a prominent role in 
the development of the energy industry in  
the Middle East for over 35 years and is the 
regional market leader in the rig construction 
business. Lamprell is a leading provider of 
diversified engineering and contracting 
services to the onshore and offshore oil & gas 
and renewable energy industries and since 
its IPO in 2006 it has established leading 
market positions in the construction of 
shallow-water drilling jackup rigs, liftboats, 
land rigs and rig refurbishment, as well as 
an international reputation for complex 
process modules and topsides. 
2013 marked an important turning point for 
the Group. At the start of the year, we faced 
a number of challenges but, through the 
skills and commitment of all our employees, 
we were able not only to navigate the path 
to recovery but to deliver significantly 
improved financial results. To achieve this, 
the Group has focused on its core markets, 
played to its traditional strengths and 
implemented a number of fundamental 
improvements to its business.  Previous years’ figures have been normalised in line with 
current year presentation of results to include exceptional 
items for all years.
1 Exceptional items during 2011 relate to MIS acquisition 
costs.
2 Exceptional items during 2012 relate to a regulatory fine 
and related charges.
3 Exceptional items during 2013 relate to the cost of the 
debt refinancing.
2013 and 2012 revenues for the year are from the  
Group’s continuing operations only; all other figures  
for years 2013 and 2012 include the profit from  
continuing and discontinued operations.
Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 01
Financial Highlights
Revenue
USD 1,091.8m
2012: USD 1,025.9m
2011: USD 1,147.9m
EBITDA $mn
USD 77.7 m
2012: USD (67.7m)
2011: USD 90.3m
Net profit/(loss) before income  
tax and exceptional items 
USD 45.9
3
m
2012: USD (105.7m)
2
2011: USD 74.0m
1
Net profit
USD 36.4m
2012: USD (111.2m)
2011: 63.3m
Earnings per share – Diluted (cents)
14.0c
2012: (42.7c)
2011: 26.5c
Final dividend (cents per share)
Nil
2012: Nil
2011: 8.0c
Operational Highlights
Re-established reputation for strong project execution
Focused on delivery of seven major projects during FY2013
World class safety standards consistently being achieved
Order book of USD 0.9 billion as of 31 December 2013 
Bid pipeline at approximately USD 4.7 billion as of 
31 December 2013
A year of positive developments throughout 
the organisation
EBITDA before exceptional items
USD 86.1
3
m
2012: USD (63.0m)
2
2011: USD 100.8m
1 02 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
UAE Saudi Arabia
Yemen
Oman
Iraq
Iran
Arabian
Gulf
Kuwait
5
3
2
1
4
6
Lamprell at a Glance
Delivering  
our expertise
Hamriyah
365,000
Hamriyah
1,400
Saudi Arabia
1
131,000
Land
909,000m
2
Sharjah
210,000
Sharjah
800
Kuwait
10,000
Quayside
2,200m
Jebel Ali
163,000
Dubai
30,000
UAE Land (m
2
) UAE Quayside (m) Other Land (m
2
) Total
1  A three-way JV between Lamprell,  
Shoaibi Group and AYTB.
Within Lamprell, we have a total 
workforce of approximately 
10,000 people across multiple 
facilities with its primary 
facilities in Hamriyah, Sharjah 
and Jebel Ali, all of which are 
located in the UAE. In addition, 
the Group has facilities in Saudi 
Arabia (through a joint venture 
agreement) and Kuwait. The 
Group’s facilities cover a total 
area of approximately 910,000m
2
 
with 2.2km of quayside.
Since our IPO in 2006, we have constructed 
15 new build jackup drilling rigs, and 
converted, upgraded or refurbished more 
than 150 jackup and land rigs and built 
modules for nine FPSOs. In other key sectors, 
we have fabricated modules for land and 
offshore energy projects and delivered 
liftboats and wind farm installation vessels  
to the renewables market. Lamprell has come 
a long way since first opening its doors as  
a family business in 1976 and the business is 
well placed to remain a competitive force in 
the industry capable of delivering sustainable 
growth over the long term.
1 Hamriyah Free Zone, Sharjah, UAE
2 Port Khalid, Sharjah, UAE
3 Jebel Ali, Dubai, UAE
4 Dubai Investments Park, Dubai, UAE
5 Saudi Arabia
6 Kuwait Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 03
New Build Jackup Rigs
• Established new build jackup rig capability
• Leading non-Asian yard for sub-350 feet 
rig class
• Larger rigs well within Group’s core 
capabilities
Offshore Construction
• Strength in complex process module 
fabrication and general fabrication and 
site works services
• Specialism in North Sea projects
• Well placed for significant regional 
opportunities with strong presence and 
proven track record
Focusing on our Core Markets
Established market positions and strong track record
Land Rig Services
• Full suite of land rig refurbishment 
services
• API accreditation with dedicated facility 
in UAE
• Regional expansion is a focus
Rig Refurbishment
• Regional market leader in rig 
refurbishment
• Focused on timely delivery and customer 
satisfaction
• Full refurbishment, upgrade and 
conversion capabilities
Renewable Energy
• High build quality, to stringent DNV 
regulations
• Five new build liftboats/wind farm 
installation vessels built in six years
• Wind turbine foundations and 
transformer stations within our 
competency
Total order intake for 2013
Newbuild jackups USD 385,008
Renewables USD 440
Offshore construction USD 52,340
Rig refurbishment USD 137,498 
●
●
●
●
Land rigs USD 58,861 
Others USD 122,336 
●
●
Market Value USD ‘000
Total  USD 756,087 04 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Lamprell recovered well in 2013 
after the challenges of 2012 and 
returned to profitability as a 
result of strong management and 
good operational performance, as 
well as tighter financial controls. 
During 2013, the new management team 
implemented robust project execution plans 
to deliver our major projects as planned, with 
much improved financial results. We have 
committed resources to ensure that we 
maintain and improve on our existing high 
standards of safety and quality and we are 
pleased to note client satisfaction remains 
positive. Our clients demonstrated ongoing 
support for the Group as evidenced by 
several major new contract awards 
announced during the year. 
Corporate governance and Board 
changes
The Board believes that strong corporate 
governance is important and it is applying the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. In 2013, the Board continued to 
improve the Group’s management structure 
and corporate governance standards, and 
further details are contained in our corporate 
governance report. 
There were several Board and senior 
management changes principally in the first 
half of the year. I was pleased to welcome Jim 
Moffat as the new CEO, Joanne Curin as the 
new CFO and Michael Press, Ellis Armstrong 
and John Malcolm as independent Non-
Executive Directors. Peter Whitbread moved 
from an executive to a non-executive role and 
so we continue to benefit from his vast 
experience. The reinvigorated Board brings 
John Kennedy
Non-Executive Chairman
significant industry, strategic and operational 
experience as well as an international 
perspective, and I am confident that it will be 
instrumental in securing Lamprell’s future. 
We successfully addressed the concerns 
raised by the Financial Services Authority (the 
“FSA”, now the Financial Conduct Authority) 
during the settlement of its investigations in 
March 2013 and strengthened the Group’s 
systems and processes, as also outlined in 
our corporate governance report. 
The new Board and management team made 
it their priority to improve transparency of the 
decision-making process within the Group. 
Board meetings have included presentations 
from management on key aspects of the 
business such as strategy and succession 
planning. The new management team has 
conducted an in-depth review of the Group’s 
strategy, and the Board has played an integral 
part in guiding this process. 
The Board has implemented a process for 
ongoing evaluation of its effectiveness, as 
well as that of the Board Committees and 
the individual Directors. The process has 
confirmed that the Board, Board Committees 
and individual Directors are performing 
effectively and provided specific feedback 
which will enhance Board performance. 
There have been improvements within the 
control framework as the Group commenced 
replacement of its existing ERP system with a 
A positive and 
sustainable future
Chairman’s Statement Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05
Risk          Strategy
Shareholders           Leadership           Effectiveness
new integrated system. Implementation is on 
plan and we expect to see further 
improvements in the information flow within 
the Group during 2014.
Finally, in 2013 the Group had more regular 
communication with its shareholders and the 
wider investor community. This included 
formal meetings with investors, analysts and 
media at various points throughout the year 
and in particular for the full year and interim 
results. We place considerable importance on 
maintaining and further developing our 
relationships with our shareholders through 
regular and effective communication.
Stronger financial position
A key development of 2013 was the 
reinforcement of the Group’s financial 
position. The new finance team introduced 
stronger financial controls and improved cash 
management. In June, the Group 
renegotiated its debt facility and secured 
longer-term financing totaling USD 181 
million. This new arrangement significantly 
simplified the Company’s capital structure, as 
it reduced the number of lending banks to 
five, and rationalised the covenants to a 
common basis.
Key areas of focus for our Board.
Dividends
Given the restrictions under the debt facility, 
the Group will not be paying a dividend for 
the 12-month period ended 31 December 
2013. The Board is acutely aware of the 
importance of dividends to investors, and will 
review the Group’s dividend policy when its 
financial position improves further and the 
constraints have been removed.
Strategy 
The Group’s primary goals for 2013 were to 
strengthen the underlying organisation and 
project execution, and to deliver existing 
projects effectively and efficiently. Having 
achieved these goals, the management team 
undertook a detailed review of our strategy 
in late 2013 and early 2014. We will focus on 
growing our core businesses, building on our 
proven expertise and track record in project 
execution, together with broadening the 
Group’s reach and client portfolio within its 
core markets.
In parallel, the Group has started to dispose 
of non-core service businesses, including the 
successful disposal of the Inspec service 
business in March 2014 for USD 66.2 million, 
the proceeds for which were used to pay 
down a significant portion of our debt facility. 
Conclusion
Lamprell made great progress during 2013, 
improving project execution significantly and 
addressing the legacy issues, and as a result 
the Company returned to profitability. In 
2013 we implemented a series of productivity 
and process improvements, as well as certain 
cost efficiencies, which we plan to continue 
and develop further during 2014. We have 
strengthened our business development 
function and are now working on rebuilding 
the order book to position the Company for 
future growth. The Board remains focused 
on ensuring the business has a strong 
financial platform to deliver its strategy.
John Kennedy
Chairman
Lamprell plc
“Lamprell made great 
progress during 2013 and 
the Board is focused on 
ensuring the business has 
a strong financial platform 
to deliver its strategy.”  06 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Close client  
relations
National  
Drilling Company 
(“NDC”) 
Project: NDC “Qarnin” rig
Type: LeTourneau Super 116E rig
Facility: Hamriyah
Delivery: February 2014
The contract for the NDC “Qarnin” rig 
was signed in October 2011 and this 
is the third rig in a series of six identical 
rigs being built and delivered by 
Lamprell to the client, NDC. NDC is a 
major customer for Lamprell for both 
jackup rigs and land-based rigs.  Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07 08 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
A Year in Review – 2013
Q1 JANUARY
• Delivery of jackup rig “Greatdrill Chaaya” 
to Greatship Group
JUNE
• Delivery of a 4,000 tonnes wellhead deck 
to Nexen for installation in the North Sea 
“Golden Eagle Area Development”
FEBRUARY
• Second Windcarrier vessel, “Bold Tern” 
delivered to Fred. Olsen
• Two contracts won for major upgrade and 
refurbishment of two jackup drilling rigs
• Contract awarded by Jindal Group for 
construction of one firm jackup rig plus 
an option for a further rig
MARCH
• Arrival of new Chief Executive Officer, 
James Moffat
• Lamprell concludes settlement with the 
Financial Services Authority
• Frank Nelson is appointed as Chief 
Financial Officer and Executive Director on 
the Board
• Delivery of a 5,217 tonnes utility platform 
to an international oil company operating 
in the North Sea
Q2 MAY
• Board refreshed with arrival of Michael 
Press, John Malcolm and Ellis Armstrong 
as Non-Executive Directors
Major new contract awards
Project Customer Segment Contract value Award date
New or repeat 
customer
Dev Drilling Jindal Group Oil & Gas – new build jackup drilling rigs Not disclosed February 2013 Repeat
Greatships Greatships Group Oil & Gas – new build jackup drilling rigs Not disclosed August 2013 Repeat
MOS Frontier Millennium Offshore Services Upgrade and refurbishment activities USD 64 million September 2013 Repeat
A year in review – 2013 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09
Q3 JULY 
• Lamprell signs definitive agreement for a 
new, simplified secured banking facility
AUGUST
• Conditions for new banking facility met 
and first drawdown occurs
• Financial results for 1H 2013 confirm the 
Group’s return to profitability
• Award of contract by Greatships for the 
construction of a new jackup rig
SEPTEMBER
• Lamprell is awarded a major rig 
refurbishment and conversion contract by 
the Millennium Offshore Services
Q4 OCTOBER
• Joanne Curin joins Lamprell to replace 
Frank Nelson as Chief Financial Officer
NOVEMBER
• Delivery of the jackup drilling rig  
“Jindal Star” to Jindal Group
• Delivery of the first of two jackup drilling 
rigs for use in Caspian Sea region
• Delivery of pre-assembled units to 
facilitate transportation of gas from 
Laggan and Tormore fields in the  
North Sea
Major pressure vessel: Saudi Arabia 10 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
2013 marked an important 
turning point for the Group. At 
the start of the year, we faced a 
number of challenges but, 
through the skills and 
commitment of all our 
employees, we were able not 
only to navigate the path to 
recovery but to deliver 
significantly improved financial 
results. To achieve this, the 
Group has focused on its key 
strengths in its traditional 
business streams and 
implemented a number of 
fundamental improvements in 
its project execution. We 
anticipate this focus on core 
markets to continue to form the 
basis of our business in the near 
term as we look to build on the 
performance in 2013.
Year in review
At the time of joining Lamprell in March 
2013, I was impressed by the underlying 
strengths of the franchise but it was clear to 
me that further actions were required in 
order to keep the recovery process on track. 
One of our immediate priorities was to build 
on the work of the interim management 
team to improve our operational 
performance and to complete our existing 
projects, and in particular the key 
underperforming projects, as effectively and 
efficiently as possible.
In order to align the Group’s management 
organisation more closely with its projects, a 
number of changes were made to strengthen 
the management team. New appointments 
included a VP Projects, VP HSE, VP 
Procurement and VP Finance. Jo Curin joined 
as CFO in October 2013. More recently, we 
have recruited a new Chief Commercial 
Officer and a VP Business Development. This 
new management team benefits from the 
combined knowledge within the legacy 
Lamprell operations and the experience and 
expertise of the new appointees. 
It was also crucial for the growth of the 
business to develop a strong culture of 
continuous improvement and we successfully 
implemented a series of initiatives to enhance 
project execution and improve efficiencies 
within the wider business. We instilled a 
more disciplined and structured approach to 
James Moffat
Chief Executive Officer
our operational performance to drive down 
our cost base, resulting in a 17% reduction  
in our facility and corporate overhead costs. 
As part of this, we developed and regularly 
monitored key performance indicators.  
We launched the first phase of a new ERP 
system which went live in February 2014.
Throughout this same period, it has been  
my objective to nurture and develop our key 
differentiators, namely high standards of 
safety and quality, a commitment to reliability, 
a keen focus on client satisfaction and a 
strong management team. It is my strong 
belief that a safe working environment will 
deliver significant benefits to the business 
such as enhanced productivity, client 
satisfaction and ultimately stronger financial 
performance. These key strengths form an 
integral part of the culture of continuous 
improvement and I am proud to see that  
we are consistently achieving world class 
standards on our current projects.
Focused on delivery
In 2013, the Group maintained its position  
as one of the leaders in construction of new 
build jackup rigs in the sub-350 feet class. 
We completed three rigs during the year with 
an additional rig delivered in February 2014. 
In total, since 2006, the Group has delivered 
15 new build jackup drilling rigs, including 
eight LeTourneau Super 116E rigs.
Good progress on 
path to recovery
Chief Executive Officer’s Review Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11
Order book and bid pipeline
Order book as at 31 December 2013
Newbuild jackups 694m
Offshore construction 30m
Renewable energy 32m
Rig refurbishment 62m
Land rigs 20m
Other 24m
NOTE: 15 added to all so that bottom 2 ﬁgures don’t produce egg timer shapes
Bid pipeline as at 31 December 2013
Newbuild jackups 2,155m
Offshore construction 2,084m
Rig refurbishment
1
112m
Renewable energy 100m
Land rigs 174m
Other 77m
NOTE: 60 added to all* so that bottom 4 ﬁgures don’t produce egg timer shapes 
*though, of course, not to visible totals
1 Refurbishment value stream has a short bid to award profile and therefore limited order 
book/pipeline values.
During 2013, the Group also demonstrated a 
strong performance in its offshore 
construction business stream, delivering two 
major topside structures on schedule. In 
November, we completed the final set of 
process modules to another client for use in 
the North Sea. These structures further 
strengthened our reputation for building 
high quality, large-scale complex decks.
In Q1 2013, the Group also delivered the 
Windcarrier “Bold Tern” windfarm 
installation vessel to Fred. Olsen, the fifth 
liftboat that Lamprell has delivered in six 
years. Notwithstanding the challenges that 
we experienced on this complex project, we 
are very proud of the high quality of the final 
product, which is operating successfully in 
the North Sea region. 
While the rig refurbishment and upgrade 
business experienced a quieter year, the 
Group nevertheless worked on 22 projects 
during the period. In the second half of the 
year we commenced work on a major rig 
conversion and refurbishment project for 
Millennium Offshore Services group 
(“MOS”). This project demonstrates the 
Group’s ability and willingness to develop 
innovative solutions to support its clients, 
particularly in its core markets. 
The land rig segment had a steady year. 
Highlights include the completion of a 
fast-moving rig upgrade for National Drilling 
Company (“NDC”) and the design and 
fabrication of coiled tubing towers for  
a number of oilfield services companies.  
The Group also completed the process  
for certification for its proprietary land rig 
design and will look to market this to clients 
during 2014.
Market overview, order book and 
bidding 
Overall order intake during 2013 was lower 
than in previous years. This was primarily due 
to delays in project awards and our focus on 
project execution in our core markets as we 
repositioned the business for a return to 
profitability. Despite the challenges facing 
the business, we retained the support of  
our clients and secured two major contract 
awards for the construction of two Super 
116E rigs and the contract award from  
MOS for the largest rig conversion and 
refurbishment in Lamprell’s history.
As we move into 2014, we remain focused on 
the conversion of our pipeline of opportunities 
into contract wins. We believe that Lamprell is 
well placed to win new rig contracts arising 
from a combination of our key differentiators 
and the operators’ need to replace aging 
global rig fleets. In the offshore construction 
sector, we have noted the projected slowdown 
in overall capital expenditure but, with our 
strong track record in modular construction 
projects, we believe that the opportunities in 
the market for our high build quality and cost 
efficiency will yield greater returns in the 
medium to long term. 
As at 31 December 2013, the Group’s order 
book was valued at USD 0.9 billion (30 June 
2013: USD 1.1 billion). As of 31 December 
2013, the Group’s bid pipeline was valued at 
approximately USD 4.7 billion (30 June 2013: 
USD 4.6 billion), representing the broad 
range of bids across various business 
divisions. We have strengthened our business 
development capabilities and we are in active 
dialogue with a number of prospective 
clients for new orders, with the goal of 
rebuilding the order book.
Strategy
Throughout 2013, we targeted improved 
project execution and reducing overheads. 
We have carried out a detailed review of the 
Group’s strategy and concluded that, for the 
medium term, we will continue to focus on 
our existing core businesses, namely new 
build rigs, offshore construction, liftboats,  
rig refurbishments and land rig services.  
Our long-term goal is to broaden our 
offering into related markets including 
topsides and modular LNG and onshore 
plants and re-entering the FPSO markets 
where we have already been successful.  
With this in mind, we are now focused  
on maintaining and enhancing our 
competitiveness by strengthening client 
relationships in our core markets and 
improving productivity and cost efficiency. 
Outlook
In 2013 the Group made good progress on 
its path to recovery and we are aiming to 
build on this in 2014 through the 
implementation of our strategy. The order 
intake during 2013 was lower than in 
previous years and accordingly revenues for 
2014 and 2015 are expected to be slightly 
lower than 2013 while the Group rebuilds its 
order book. In the meantime, we are 
focusing on improving productivity and cost 
efficiency in the business and we expect to 
start seeing the results from our 
improvements during the course of 2014, 
although the full benefit is not anticipated to 
materialise until 2015. 
Jim Moffat
Chief Executive Officer
Lamprell plc
“We are continuing to 
implement productivity 
improvements and  
cost efficiency in the 
business and we will 
start to see the benefits 
during 2014.” 12 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
World-class 
safety 
standards Overview Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
Corporate Governance Strategic Report
Nexen  
Golden Eagle 
Development
Project: Nexen Golden Eagle 
Development
Type: Wellhead Platform
Facility: Jebel Ali
Delivery: June 2013
This 4,000 tonne deck was constructed  
in our Jebel Ali facility for use in the  
North Sea and was completed to world 
class standards of safety and quality, 
confirming Lamprell’s reputation as one 
of the few fabricators in the MENA region 
that has the expertise and capability  
to build large scale complex projects.  14 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Industry
opportunities
Market Overview
Spread sub head level 1
Macroeconomic factors
Despite the announced 
slowdown in capital expenditure 
by major oil companies, global 
exploration and production 
capital expenditure is still 
expected to continue to grow by 
3% to 6% in 2014 and market 
conditions in the drilling and 
oilfield service sectors, insofar as 
they relate to the Group, remain 
favourable against a backdrop of 
increasing global oil demand.
The primary areas of near-term 
growth are expected to be in 
modular onshore developments 
and in shallow water, medium 
sized projects and these are well 
suited to the Group’s core 
capabilities. In the medium to 
longer term, we anticipate 
additional market growth from 
the floating, production, storage 
and off-loading (“FPSO”) and 
liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) 
sectors, which both require high 
quality modular fabrication.
As a result, we expect fleet replenishment to 
bolster demand and drive a return to order 
level growth in 2015 and 2016. This market 
strength is reflected in the Group’s strong 
new build jackup pipeline of USD 2.2 billion.
The market is seeing increased competition 
from Asia and Lamprell has been affected by 
an increased willingness of Asian yards to 
offer clients back-ended payment terms. The 
impact of this competition has been evident 
in 2013, where the Group secured two new 
jackup awards compared to four in 2012. 
This is reflected in the Group’s order book 
position which at 31 December 2013 was 
USD 0.9 billion, lower than the previous year 
(USD 1.1 billion as at 30 June 2013). 
The Group remains one of the leading 
fabricators of jackup rigs and is committed to 
delivering high quality units to a broader 
range of global clients. To support this, the 
Group is focused on enhancing its facilities 
and improving productivity.
New build jackup rigs
The jackup rig market remains highly 
competitive, with the year ended 31 December 
2013, seeing a significant increase in the total 
number of orders for jackup rigs, including 
those ordered by customers on a speculative 
basis. These order levels are expected to result 
in some market softening during 2014 as 
operators focus on putting to work units being 
delivered over the next 18 months. 
In spite of medium-term capex budgetary 
pressures being experienced by the deep 
water segment, the global shallow water 
fleet utilisation remains close to record levels, 
and the average jackup unit day rates remain 
strong, with reasonable growth over the last 
year. The global fleet has an average age in 
excess of 25 years and the inferior economics 
of aging rigs is leading to a divergence of  
day rates between older and newer units.  
Jackup rig – regional location
Australasia
Latin America
Middle East
North Africa 
North America
NWECS
SE Asia
Europe other
West Africa
Jackup rig global ﬂeet age
Less than 10 years ●
Between 10 and 25 years ●
More than 25 years ● Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15
Overview Strategic Report
Offshore construction
Over the medium to long term, we expect 
the Group’s offshore construction revenue to 
be driven by the increasing global demand 
for modular construction for a range of oil 
and gas markets. The Group has a strong 
track record in modular construction and is 
well placed, both geographically and 
technically, to service this demand. 
The long-run fundamentals in these markets 
are forecast to remain strong despite the 
delays in major project awards being a current 
feature of the industry. This impact is partially 
offset for the Group by a shift in the mix of 
spending towards greater shallow water 
drilling, evaluation and completion activity. 
Therefore, whilst we see some challenges in 
the offshore construction market in the near 
term we believe that the opportunities in the 
market for our high quality and cost efficient 
solutions will yield greater returns in the 
medium to long term.
In the longer term, we see a return to 
strength of the FPSO market which 
represents a strong future opportunity for 
the Group. 
Renewables and multi-purpose liftboats
The new build liftboat market is experiencing 
two drivers that are acting in opposing 
directions to moderate demand growth. The 
first is a lower wind farm installation 
workload and the second factor is the higher 
demand for liftboat vessels in the oil and gas 
sector. Using a liftboat, operators can access 
an increased proportion of existing fixed 
platforms and we are seeing orders from 
major oilfield service companies, particularly 
in the Gulf of Mexico.
We continue to monitor this market and will 
bid for those projects where we can leverage 
our strong track record in liftboat fabrication 
at an acceptable risk level.
Rig refurbishment and conversions
Whilst jackup rig fleet replenishment has 
commenced for many operators, we believe 
that the life cycle extension programmes will 
also drive continued strength in the 
refurbishment sector. The significant age of 
the fleet will lead to long-term replenishment 
programmes that will run for many years, 
with older assets either being maintained 
until they are replaced or converted for 
alternative use. Major refurbishments and 
the conversion of old drilling rigs into 
accommodation units are traditional 
strengths of the Group and a sector where 
we are the leading regional provider. 
However, there are high levels of 
competition, particularly at the lower end of 
the market where there are increased 
numbers of new entrants to the market. 
Land rig services
The Middle East region is critically important to 
the world’s oil supply. The growth of planned 
onshore drilling programmes has accelerated 
in recent years and the land rig count has 
grown substantially since the end of 2011,  
with Saudi Arabia being the primary regional 
growth area. 
This growth is expected to increase demand 
for regional refurbishment and also provide 
an opportunity for new build land rigs 
designed specifically for the Middle East. Both 
these revenue streams are long-term 
sustainable drivers of growth for the smallest 
of our core businesses.
Name: Daan Noothoven van 
Goor
Job Title: Project Manager
Years at Lamprell: 2
Country of origin: The Netherlands
Lamprell is one of the major key players for 
delivering quality products to the worldwide 
energy sector. As a Project Manager for 
jackup rigs, it is a great pleasure to work  
with our committed and enthusiastic team  
to deliver our projects safely, on time,  
on budget and to the highest quality. 16 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategy
“Back to basics” during 2013
We addressed a number of legacy 
commercial and internal audit issues, 
implemented a new ERP system in response 
to the FSA findings and opened a new 
training school to retrain and increase 
workforce skills. We have also made 
significant improvements in safety 
performance. All of these combined to 
enable the Group to produce a significant 
improvement in financial performance in 
2013 and were an important first step 
towards enhancing future competitiveness in 
our core markets.
Strategy review and implementation
We have carried out a detailed review of the 
Group’s strategy and concluded that for the 
medium term, we will continue to focus on 
our existing core businesses namely new 
build rigs, offshore construction, liftboats, rig 
refurbishments and land rig services. Our 
long-term goal is to broaden our offering 
into related markets including topsides and 
modular LNG and onshore plants and 
re-entering the FPSO markets where we have 
already been successful.
The key elements of our strategy are as 
follows:
• Focus on core markets: We will 
maintain leading market positions in the 
construction of shallow-water drilling 
jackup rigs, liftboats, land rigs and rig 
refurbishment, and develop further our 
strong and growing reputation for 
process modules and topsides for use in 
the energy industry. We will focus on 
these markets whilst leveraging our 
proven expertise in project execution to 
broaden our reach within these sectors.
• Productivity and efficiency: We are 
improving our productivity, driving down 
costs and looking to shorten our build 
schedules to enhance our 
competitiveness. This will be achieved by 
optimising yard lay-outs, capturing 
synergies between major projects and 
organisational alignment, and by adopting 
practices from the best European and 
Asian yards.
• Continuous improvement: We are 
creating a culture of continuous 
improvement including the use of and 
reporting against key performance 
indicators and the capture and 
embedding of lessons learned across 
repeat projects.
As a result of the challenges in 
2012, the Group adopted a “back 
to basics” approach to its 
operations by improving project 
execution, lowering costs and 
reducing overhead. 
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
Our Group 
business model
Revenue (USD millions)
2013
2012
2011
1,092
1,026
1,148
Description
Measures the level of operating activity and size 
of the business.
EBITDA (USD millions)
2013
2012
2011
86.1
(63.0)
100.8
Description
EBITDA means earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation, and amortisation and provides a 
measure of the operating cash flows for  
the business.
EPS (diluted) (cents per share)
2013
2012
2011
13.99
(42.72)
26.47
Description
Indicates net profitability on a per share basis, 
taking into account changes in the capital 
structure.
Order book as at 31 December 
(USD billions)
2013
2012
2011
0.9
1.2
1.2
Description
The Group uses this KPI as a measure of the 
visibility of future revenues. 
Net proﬁt/loss (USD millions)
2013
2012
2011
36.4
(111.2)
63.3
Description
Measures net profitability of the business.
Safety: TRIR (rate per 200,000 man hours)
2013
2012
2011
0.67
0.85
1.53
Description
Key lagging indicators showing the Group’s 
safety performance.
Headcount (number of employees)
2013
2012
2011
7,568
7,950
9,496
Description
Provides an indication of the Group’s service 
capacity.
Safety: LTI (rate per 200,000 man hours)
2013
2012
2011
0.02
0.03
0.05
Description
Lost time frequency rate. Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
Lamprell’s  
Key Strengths:
First class safety  
and quality
Commitment to reliability
Focus on client satisfaction
Strong management  
team and skilled workforce
Strategic location
• Client satisfaction and business 
development: Our ongoing commitment 
to customer service and close client 
relations before, during and after project 
completion has allowed the Company to 
benefit from the strong support from our 
major clients. We are targeting to be the 
partner of choice for long-term clients. 
We are strengthening our business 
development capabilities to achieve this.
• Leveraging our key strengths: Lamprell 
has a long-standing reputation for its 
strong safety track record, high build 
quality, reliable delivery and a reputation 
for working collaboratively with our 
clients. Our facilities are well-located and 
well-equipped, and we have an 
experienced management team and 
skilled and committed workforce in place. 
Our objective is to build on these 
strengths to differentiate ourselves 
against competitors.
• Value for money: With the combination 
of our key strengths and competitive cost 
structure, we believe we present an 
attractive proposition to clients, delivering 
superior value for money. 
Non-core businesses
Consistent with the above strategy and as 
already announced in August 2013, we are 
reviewing the Group’s ownership of certain 
non-core service businesses. As announced 
on 3 March 2014, we entered into an 
agreement to sell the Inspec service business 
for USD 66.2 million. The process for the 
disposal of the other non-core services 
businesses is ongoing but negotiations are at 
a preliminary stage. The sale of these services 
businesses may not proceed if acceptable 
terms cannot be agreed and is subject to 
Board approval. 
Types of contracts
The contracts governing the Group’s projects 
primarily fall into two categories: lump sum 
contracts and cost reimbursable contracts. 
The majority of the Group’s projects, 
including most of the new build projects, are 
undertaken on a lump sum, or fixed price, 
basis. In lump sum contracts, the Group 
receives a predetermined amount for its 
services, and the profit is dependent upon 
the Group’s ability to minimise its costs and 
achieve the delivery dates. 
Cost reimbursable contracts usually comprise 
schedules of pre-agreed labour, equipment 
and project management hourly or daily 
rates and the materials procurement; the 
supply of consumables and the works carried 
out by subcontractors are normally 
reimbursed at cost plus an agreed 
percentage mark-up. This type of contract is 
most common in the upgrade and 
refurbishment of jackup rigs. 
Our Business Model
– Continuous Improvement Cycle
Focus on Delivery:
Complete on time  
and on budget
Reinvest in operations
Deliver value for money to clients 
Deliver returns to shareholders 
Lessons learned
Business Development:
Proactively identify  
business opportunities
Evaluate risks and benefits
Negotiate price and  
contract terms 
Secure contracts
Project Execution:
Assemble project team
Engineering and procurement
Manage efficiencies 
Secure timely payment 
Adapt to changing  
client requirements
Execute projects safely 18 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
2013 was a year of recovery for 
Lamprell. Following the 
completion of a number of 
underperforming projects and 
improvements in execution 
during the year, the Group 
returned to profitability faster 
than previous expectations.
Results from operations
In the 12-month period ended 31 December 
2013, the Group’s total revenue was slightly 
up year-on-year at USD 1,091.8 million 
(2012: USD 1,025.9 million). The increase was 
driven primarily by the new build oil & gas 
and new build renewables segments, which 
recorded higher revenue of USD 580.2 
million (2012: USD 493.6 million) and USD 
95.1 million (2012: USD 66.4 million) 
respectively. In total, during 2013 the 
recognised revenue for the Group included 
revenue on 10 jackup rigs and two liftboats. 
Of note, we completed the Windcarrier 2 
“Bold Tern” liftboat to Fred. Olsen in 
February and in November, we delivered the 
first of two Caspian jackup rigs without 
further deterioration to our profitability for 
2013. 
The offshore construction segment also 
performed very well with five projects under 
construction and three delivered to the 
clients during the period. The segment 
reported revenue of USD 195.6 million (2012: 
USD 179.7 million). 
These revenue increases were partially offset 
by lower revenues from the upgrade and 
refurbishment of USD 122.5 million (2012: 
USD 176.9 million), which was impacted by 
delays in the timing of clients’ maintenance 
schedules as well as increased competition in 
the market. Other revenue also decreased to 
USD 98.4 million (2012: USD 109.4 million) 
due to lower activity in our minor 
engineering and construction projects. 
Joanne Curin
Chief Financial Officer
Cost of sales decreased from USD 1,053.6 
million in 2012 to USD 976.5 million in 2013, 
resulting in the recovery of the gross margin 
to 10.6% (2012: negative gross margin of 
2.7%). The overall recovery in the margin 
was supported by improved project 
execution and overhead costs savings at the 
facility level, although 2013 margins were 
partially suppressed by the three legacy 
contracts referred to above. 
Overhead costs were broadly flat year-on-
year excluding exceptional items and a 
one-off write-off in respect of the Group’s 
legacy ERP system. General and 
administrative expenses were USD 62.3 
million (2012: USD 71.4 million). 
The operating profit for the year from 
continuing operations was USD 52.9 million 
against a loss of USD 94.9 million for the 
previous comparative period. This improved 
profitability came primarily as a result of the 
successful completion of underperforming 
projects (Windcarrier 2 and the first Caspian 
rig), cost savings in our core businesses and 
significantly better performance of one of 
our service businesses, Litwin, which in 2013 
recovered from the substantial losses of the 
previous year.
EBITDA for the period was USD 86.1 million 
(2012: negative USD 63.0 million), which 
included both continuing operations and the 
Inspec service business (which are 
discontinued operations), with the EBITDA 
margin at 7.7% (2012: negative 6.0%).
Improved execution  
and efficiencies
Financial Review Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19
Finance costs
Net finance costs in 2013 increased marginally 
to USD 22.2 million (2012: USD 21.5 million). 
Excluding exceptional items, net finance 
charges were lower by 36% in 2013 as 
compared to the previous year due to lower 
interest costs, which was principally due to  
a lower level of average debt. The 2013  
costs include an exceptional charge of USD 
8.4 million arising from costs related to the 
refinancing of the Group’s debt facilities (see 
“Borrowing and debt refinancing” below).
Net profit and earnings per share
The Group reported a net profit of USD 36.4 
million after the exceptional financial charge 
but including USD 5.7 million from the Inspec 
service business, the disposal of which was 
completed on 3 March 2014 (the Group 
reported a net loss (after exceptionals) of 
USD 111.2 million for the previous year). We 
see this as a very positive result given the fact 
that the Group had to overcome many legacy 
issues from the previous year and made 
significant changes to the business and 
operations during 2013.
The fully diluted earnings per share for the 
12-month period ended 31 December 2013 
were 13.99 US cents (2012: negative 42.72 
US cents).
Cash flow and liquidity
The Group’s net cash generated from 
operating activities for the 12-month period 
ended 31 December 2013 was a net inflow 
of USD 117.7 million (2012: net inflow of USD 
249.9 million). Prior to working capital 
movements and the payment of employees’ 
end of service benefits, the Group’s net cash 
inflow was USD 105.3 million (2012: net 
outflow of USD 43.0 million).
The Group’s liquidity has improved 
significantly in 2013 with unrestricted cash 
increasing to USD 277.1 million (2012: USD 
126.4 million). The positive EBITDA and 
release of short-term deposits under lien due 
to completion of a number of large projects, 
as well as a positive movement in working 
capital, drove this strong performance.
The Group’s net cash as at 31 December 
2013 was USD 183.8 million (2012: USD 
104.1 million).
Borrowing and debt refinancing
On 18 July 2013, the Group concluded 
negotiations with its lenders by entering into a 
new Senior Secured Syndicated Facilities 
Agreement with a syndicate of banks under 
which such banks made available certain 
facilities with an aggregate amount of USD 
181.0 million, consisting of: (a) a term facility 
A of USD 100.0 million with a final maturity 
on 30 June 2016, which is subject to an 
amortisation schedule commencing on 30 
June 2014; (b) a term loan facility B of USD 
60.0 million with an original final maturity on 
30 June 2016, which is subject to a one-year 
extension, at the election of the Company; 
and (c) a revolving facility of USD 21.0 million 
maturing on 30 June 2016. Term loans A and 
B referred to in (a) and (b) above were used to 
refinance the then outstanding funded 
financial indebtedness of the Group under the 
2011 facilities agreement, whilst the Group 
will use the revolving facility for its general 
corporate and working capital purposes. 
These new facilities, which sit alongside the 
Group’s continuing bilateral unfunded 
facilities, provided a significant simplification 
of the Group’s funded facilities and 
consolidated the Group’s borrowing with a 
smaller and more cohesive banking syndicate.
The period-end outstanding borrowing was 
USD 160.8 million (31 December 2012: USD 
159.3 million).
In view of the substantial pay-down of debt 
during 2014, the Group is exploring its options 
for the optimal long-term funding structure.
Post balance sheet event
Post the year-end, on 3 March 2014, the 
Group announced the sale of one of its 
service businesses, Inspec, to Intertek Testing 
Services Holdings Limited for a total cash 
consideration of USD 66.2 million.
Sale of the Inspec service business has 
triggered a mandatory repayment clause in 
our debt facility agreement resulting in the 
Group paying down a substantial part of the 
term loan facility B which is the high cost 
portion of the secured debt facility.
Going concern
After reviewing its cash flow forecasts for a 
period of not less than 12 months, from the 
date of signing of these financial statements, 
the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. The Group therefore 
continues to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing its financial statements.
Dividends
Given the restrictions under the Group’s 
existing debt facility the Group will not be 
paying a dividend for the 12-month period 
ended 31 December 2013. The Board is 
acutely aware of the importance of dividends 
to investors and we will review the Group’s 
dividend policy when its financial position 
improves further and the constraints have 
been removed.
Joanne Curin
Chief Financial Officer
Lamprell plc
Movement in net profit – 2012 to 2013
(120)
(100)
(80)
(60)
(40)
(20)
0
20
40
60
Improved operational efﬁciency and reduced overhead 
Net loss – 
2012
Impact of 
legacy 
projects
Revenue 
& 
mix 
growth
Operational 
efﬁciences
Reduction
of 
G & A
Reduction
in 
ﬁnance 
costs
Increase
in
exceptional
items
Others Net 
Proﬁt – 
2013
5
20
8
36
(5)
7
1 16
(4)
(111)
Amount in USD Millions 20 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
High build  
quality Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21
Fred. Olsen Windcarrier 
– “Bold T ern”
Project: Fred. Olsen Windcarrier –  
“Bold Tern”
Type: MSC Gusto NG-9000 Wind Farm 
Installation Vessel
Facility: Jebel Ali
Delivery: February 2013
The “Bold Tern” is the second turbine 
installation vessel to be delivered by 
Lamprell to the Norwegian operator, Fred. 
Olsen. Designed and built to stringent DNV 
regulations, the “Bold Tern” brings new 
standards of delivery to the industry and is 
equipped to operate in harsh environmental 
conditions.  22 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
During 2013, the Group focused 
on project execution and 
improved productivity and cost 
efficiency. We successfully 
completed a number of key 
projects, introduced significant 
operational improvements and 
secured several major contract 
awards. 
Operational and organisational 
improvements
With the aim of instilling a strong culture  
of continuous improvement, we conducted  
a full review of our management structure 
and business processes during 2013,  
which identified areas that would build  
on our existing controls and improve our 
overall performance. 
We introduced the standardisation of 
procedures and have driven efficiencies 
across the new build jackup rig programme. 
Specifically, we have seen improvements in 
the management of commissioning activities 
with greater vendor coordination, improved 
scheduling between projects and the 
development of a completions management 
system, which will also be one of the most 
important tasks in 2014. These 
improvements have had a positive effect on 
our bottom-line results for 2013 where we 
have seen reductions of approximately USD 
25 million in the facility and corporate 
support costs. We have identified 
opportunities to reduce costs further. 
One of our key focus areas has been to 
improve the health, safety, and environment 
(“HSE”) performance, which is critical for the 
safety of our employees and translates into 
enhanced operational and financial 
performance for the business. We successfully 
built on our existing strong safety record at all 
three of our principal facilities. 
Our overall Total Recordable Injury Rate 
(“TRIR”) for 2013 was 0.67 (2012: 0.85) and 
in total, there were more than 33 million 
man-hours with only three lost time 
incidents. We launched various HSE initiatives 
and campaigns, including notably the 
OHSAS18001 and ISO14001 accreditations,  
a heat stress awareness campaign, monthly 
HSE indicator scorecard as well as HSE audits 
and training. By monitoring HSE leading and 
lagging indicators, we have identified trends 
which will enable us to maintain our 
consistently strong HSE standards.
We continue to seek opportunities to 
improve our environmental performance and 
thereby reduce our overall carbon footprint. 
Lamprell provided key environmental data as 
part of the 2013 CDP (Carbon Disclosure 
Project) reporting programme. 
On the quality side, we monitored our weld 
repair rates closely as they can be a key 
indicator of our performance levels and may 
be required for accreditation purposes. Our 
weld repair rates were subject to testing and 
were averaging well below 1% across our 
facilities. We can be understandably proud of 
this achievement. 
The Group’s management organisation has 
been changed to align the business more 
closely with its projects and there have been 
important additions to the key operational 
team with a new VP HSE, VP Projects, VP 
Improving our 
performance
Business Review
Key deliveries
Project Client Segment Vessel type Delivery date
“Greatdrill Chaaya” Greatship Oil & gas – New build jackup 
drilling rigs
Le Tourneau S116E January 2013
Windcarrier “Bold Tern” Fred. Olsen Renewable energy – Wind Farm 
Installation Vessels
Gusto MSC NG-9000C February 2013
North Sea project International oil company 
operator
Oil & gas – New build offshore 
facilities
5,217 tonne utility platform March 2013
“Golden Eagle Area 
Development”
Nexen UK Oil & gas – New build offshore 
facilities
4,000 tonne wellhead deck June 2013
EDC “Neptune” Eurasia Drilling Company Oil & gas – New build jackup 
drilling rigs
Le Tourneau S116E November 2013
North Sea project North Sea contractor Oil & gas – New build offshore 
facilities
15 process modules November 2013
“Jindal Star” Jindal Group Oil & gas – New build jackup 
drilling rigs
Le Tourneau S116E November 2013
“Qarnin” National Drilling Company Oil & gas – New build jackup 
drilling rigs
Le Tourneau S116E February 2014 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23
Procurement and VP Finance. This 
strengthened management team benefits 
from the combined knowledge within the 
legacy Lamprell operations and the experience 
and expertise of the new appointees.
The Group has created a more disciplined 
and structured approach to bidding with the 
use of sales scorecards, win strategies and 
risk management processes and this process 
has been supervised by a bid review 
committee. Recently, we have been joined by 
a new Chief Commercial Officer who is 
tasked with driving business development 
activities within the Group and we plan to 
make further additions to our commercial and 
business development function during 2014.
We continued to focus on managing our 
supplier relationships and there was frequent 
and regular dialogue with the major 
suppliers, particularly with Cameron 
LeTourneau which designs and delivers the 
jacking system for our Super 116E drilling 
units. Whilst there has been some impact on 
our operations as a result of Cameron’s 
delivery schedules, we managed the build 
schedules effectively to ensure timely delivery 
of our new build jackup rig projects. 
Our people are crucial to the success of the 
business and we have taken steps to 
demonstrate the career prospects within the 
Group to our employees. We have installed 
our own training school, to assess the quality 
of candidates for promotion and to provide 
general training and education to develop 
the overall quality of our staff. During 2013, 
we also instigated a succession planning 
programme to develop high potential 
employees into key roles.
During 2014, we will implement a plan to 
achieve greater synergies across the delivery 
of the multiple jackup drilling units between 
November 2014 and March 2015. This 
delivery schedule is unprecedented at 
Lamprell but represents a key opportunity for 
the business to maximise schedule gains and 
cost savings through more efficient utilisation 
of resources and equipment. We have 
constructed a specific reporting mechanism 
to track achievements against defined targets 
and we will be measuring progress as these 
projects near completion. 
 
Highlights by core businesses
New build jackup rigs
We had a busy 2013 in the jackup 
rig business segment where revenues were 
up 17.5% year-on-year. We delivered three 
Name: Emileo Singh
Job Title: HSES Coordinator
Years at Lamprell: 11
Country of origin: India
To me, working at Lamprell is like being part 
of a family and I feel respected and valued 
for what I bring to the Company. As a safety 
professional, it gives me great satisfaction 
being in a role where I can make a positive 
difference, ensuring our employees go home 
safely at the end of the day.
jackup drilling rigs along with an additional 
rig delivered in February 2014. In total, since 
2006, the Group has delivered 15 new build 
jackup drilling units, including eight 
LeTourneau Super 116E rigs.
In January, under Peter Whitbread’s 
leadership, we delivered the jackup rig 
“Greatdrill Chaaya” to the Greatship Group. 
The rig was delivered on budget and just 18 
months after initial steel cutting. In 
November, the Group delivered the first rig 
to the Jindal Group, the “Jindal Star.” It is 
testament to the satisfaction of Greatships 
and Jindal that we were awarded repeat 
projects by both clients during the year. 
Another major milestone was the completion 
and delivery of the first of two jackup rigs to a 
client in the Caspian Sea in November 2013. 
Despite being challenging and highly complex, 
the project was successfully completed 
through the hard work of the Lamprell team 
as well as our partners in Russia. With a view 
to improving margins on the second Caspian 
Sea rig, we have implemented various 
operational changes, including greater 
involvement of Russian-speaking Lamprell 
personnel and more regular reporting against 
project milestones. The Group is making good 
progress on this second project, with delivery 
expected in Q4 2014.  24 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
We have continued work on the topside and 
jackets for Leighton Offshore which is 
scheduled for delivery in Q2 2014. There has 
been considerable growth in this project as 
well as design changes from the customer 
but both parties are working together 
effectively to achieve the revised delivery 
date.
Back in 2011, Nexen contracted Lamprell to 
build two decks for the Golden Eagle 
development, a major North Sea investment. 
The wellhead deck was delivered in 2013 and 
the production, utilities and quarters (“PUQ”) 
deck, which will weigh approximately 11,000 
tonnes, is progressing according to schedule 
for delivery in April 2014. In February 2014, 
the team celebrated 9.5 million man-hours 
on the two projects without an LTI, which is 
truly a world class achievement. 
These structures have further strengthened 
Lamprell’s reputation as being one of the 
few fabrication yards within the Middle East 
– North Africa (“MENA”) region that has the 
expertise and capability to build high quality, 
large-scale complex decks. We see this 
segment as a key driver of longer-term 
growth for the Group.
The Group also supplied site works and 
general fabrication for smaller regional 
projects as well as constructed pressure 
vessels. This is a minor part of this core 
market but it has been recognised as a 
potential area for growth because of the 
high activity levels in the region. One such 
project was the successful construction and 
installation of 12 booster compressor 
packages in the Emirate of Sharjah to assist 
with handling the increasing demand for gas. 
Renewable energy
One of the major milestones in 
2013 was the delivery of the wind 
turbine installation vessel Windcarrier 2 
“Bold Tern” to Fred. Olsen. The project was 
completed five months after the delivery of 
its sister vessel, the Windcarrier 1 “Brave 
Tern”. These two projects represent the 
largest two vessels ever built by Lamprell. 
Their prototype designs presented many 
challenges but they have proven the Group’s 
ability to take on complex engineering and 
construction work, and we can be rightfully 
proud of the high quality of the final 
products, which continue to operate 
successfully in the North Sea region. 
Highlights by  
Business Segment
Business Review
Moving into 2014, we delivered another 
Super 116E jackup rig, the “Qarnin”, to our 
largest client, NDC. This is the third rig we 
have constructed for NDC and we are 
currently working on three more. In total, we 
are currently working on six new build 
drilling rigs, which are all progressing well 
and are expected to meet their completion 
targets. They are all being constructed in our 
facility in Hamriyah, United Arab Emirates.
Offshore construction
In 2013, the Group continued to 
progress its track record in the 
offshore construction segment, which 
includes the construction of offshore fixed 
structures and process modules as well as 
minor fabrication and site works. 
In March, we delivered a 5,217 tonne utility 
platform to a North Sea operator. This was 
followed by the delivery of a 4,000 tonne 
wellhead deck to Nexen in June. Both 
projects were delivered on schedule. In 
November, we delivered the final set of 
process modules to another client in the 
North Sea. This project achieved a safety 
record of 2.1 million man-hours without an 
LTI. We received positive client feedback 
arising from the high build quality and the 
excellent safety standards on all these 
projects.
Current project summary
Project Type Facility Expected Delivery
Leighton project Topside and jackets Sharjah Q2 2014
Nexen Golden Eagle 15,500 tonne PUQ deck Jebel Ali Q2 2014
NDC 4 jackup rig Le Tourneau S116E Hamriyah Q2 2014
Seajacks “Hydra” liftboat Gusto MSC NG-2500X Hamriyah Q2 2014
MOS rig conversion MLT116C rig conversion Sharjah Q2 2014
EDC “Mercury” jackup rig Le Tourneau S116E Hamriyah Q4 2014
NDC 5 jackup rig Le Tourneau S116E Hamriyah Q4 2014
Dev Drilling jackup rig Le Tourneau S116E Hamriyah Q1 2014
NDC 6 jackup rig Le Tourneau S116E Hamriyah Q1 2014
Greatships 2 jackup rig Le Tourneau S116E Hamriyah Q1 2014 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25
Land rig services
The final core business for the Group is 
land rig services including rig 
refurbishment, upgrades and the design and 
fabrication of rig and coiled tubing packages. 
The area of traditional strength for the Group 
delivered a steady operational performance 
in 2013 as we completed a number of site rig 
inspections, recertifications and 
refurbishment projects. 
NDC, our largest jackup rig customer, is also  
a key client for land rig services. Following the 
successful completion of the first “walking 
rigs” upgrade project for NDC in 2012, we 
completed a fast-moving rig upgrade for NDC 
in 2013. This project involved the design, 
fabrication, installation and commissioning  
of moving gear for the rig. 
The Group also moved a step closer to 
offering its clients a proprietary land rig 
design. The 2,000hp fast-moving land rig has 
received a certificate of compliance by the 
American Bureau of Shipping. Demand for 
land rigs remains high, mainly driven by 
operators in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Abu 
Dhabi and Iraq, and the Group believes that 
this rig design will strengthen its position in 
the regional market for which it has been 
primarily designed. 
Current order book
As at 31 December 2013, the Group’s order 
book was USD 0.9 billion (30 June 2013: USD 
1.1 billion) and the substantial proportion of 
this backlog comprises the ongoing works 
relating to the six jackup rigs currently under 
construction at the Group’s Hamriyah facility. 
This represents a heavy reliance on a single 
core business although new build rigs have 
consistently been the largest segment in recent 
years. Rebuilding the order book remains the 
highest priority for the management team, 
and the business development has been 
strengthened accordingly.
The low levels of current backlog for offshore 
construction projects reflects the reduced 
order intake during 2013 and a key 
component of the process to rebuild the 
order book will be to rebalance the portfolio 
over the coming years. There continues to be 
demand for shallow water and medium-sized 
projects in a range of oil and gas markets 
and this is well-suited to the Group’s 
capabilities and strong track record.
As is normal for rig refurbishments and land 
rig services, secured backlog is limited. It is 
typical for such projects to be awarded on 
short notice and a project may have a duration 
ranging from a few days up to 12 months.
In total, the Group has constructed and 
delivered five liftboats, two “second 
generation” vessels for Fred. Olsen and three 
“first generation” vessels for Seajacks. In 
addition, the Group is currently building a 
further vessel, the “Hydra”, for Seajacks 
which is expected to be delivered in Q2 
2014. 
Rig refurbishment and upgrades
Despite experiencing reduced activity 
in 2013, the Group worked on a total 
of 22 rig upgrade and refurbishment projects. 
Of particular note, in September we 
completed a major refurbishment project for 
the “Rowan California” jackup rig. This project 
achieved more than one million man-hours 
without an LTI. 
In September, we were awarded a major rig 
refurbishment contract by MOS for the 
conversion of the “MOS Frontier” jackup rig 
into an accommodation support vessel for 
the purpose of accommodating 290 
personnel. This is the first project where we 
have brought a jackup rig onshore for 
refurbishment which essentially “dry-docks” 
the rig allowing access from all sides. This 
demonstrated the Group’s ability to develop 
innovative solutions to support its clients. 
While there is increased competition in this 
market, it remains a core market for the 
Group where we differentiate ourselves on 
the basis of quality and reliability for delivery 
on schedule. We have built close relations 
with a number of leading regional operators 
who have brought us repeat business over 
the years.
Name: Henry Buragay
Job Title: Assistant Manager 
Electrical and Instrumentation
Years at Lamprell: 16
Country of origin: Philippines
I joined Lamprell as an Electrical Design 
Engineer and have since progressed into a 
management role. During my tenure the 
Company has given me the opportunity to 
develop my skills and knowledge by involving 
me in different projects including working on 
production platforms, onshore plants, new 
build rigs and rig refurbishment. In turn, this 
experience has helped me to lead and 
mentor other new joiners. 26 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Effective risk management 
forms an important part of the 
Group’s culture of continuous 
improvement. 
Given the sector and geographies in which 
Lamprell operates, risk management is critical 
to achieving the Group’s strategic objectives 
and both the Board and the management 
recognise their respective responsibilities to 
create, implement and monitor the right 
framework for doing so. However, it is 
equally imperative that the business is willing 
to accept a certain level of risk in order to 
deliver on stakeholders’ expectations and 
create value for the Group. The types of risk 
can vary substantially but these are the 
principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Group, together with the key mitigating 
actions or factors to offset each risk.
Many of the mitigating actions listed here  
are either a work-in-progress or a building 
block to further improvements. Saying that, 
risk management systems cannot completely 
eliminate risks and thus there can never be an 
absolute assurance against the Group failing 
to achieve its objectives or a material loss 
arising, and this list does not constitute an 
exhaustive list of all risks faced by the Group.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Specific risk Type of risk Business implications Mitigating actions/factors
Securing new contracts Strategic
Failing to secure contracts at a price and on terms that deliver an acceptable 
return for the risk undertaken could cause potentially serious financial and 
resource allocation issues. The Group is working on converting its bid pipeline 
into firm orders against a backdrop of a highly competitive industry.
Demand for the Group’s products and services may be adversely impacted by a 
fall in the levels of expenditure by energy industry companies, or in the market 
in general.
 — Strong bid pipeline of USD 4.7 billion at 31 December 2013
 — Long-term and stable relationships with customers, who have awarded 
repeat contracts to the Group
 — Strengthened the business development function considerably
 — Clearly defined strategy to focus on core markets
 — Conduct customer satisfaction survey and maintain good levels of market 
intelligence 
Over-reliance on single product Strategic
A significant proportion of the Group’s revenue is expected to be generated 
from its new build jackup drilling rig business, the loss of which would 
significantly impact its operations and business.
As a corollary to the reliance on the single product, the Group is equally heavily 
dependent on one supplier for a key component part in that single product.
 — USD 0.9 billion of backlog at 31 December 2013 with a priority to rebuild 
the order book, while we rebalance the portfolio
 — Extending core markets into broader range of markets such as LNG and 
FPSOs
 — Greater focus by business development on platform and module 
construction
 — Effective and regular communication with main service provider to plan 
deliveries and identify any likely issues early in the build schedule
Fluctuations in order book Strategic
The Group’s visible order book can fluctuate significantly because the majority 
of the projects are lump-sum contracts, without long-term commitments, or 
relate to refurbishment work, which is often short-term work.
 — The Group has strong and stable relationships with its customers, a factor 
which is of particular significance for business in the Middle East
 — USD 0.9 billion of backlog at 31 December 2013 with a priority to rebuild 
the order book, while we rebalance the portfolio
 — Extending core markets into broader range of markets such as LNG and 
FPSOs
 — Strengthened the business development function considerably
Over-reliance on limited 
number of customers
The Company’s customer base is relatively small and our workload is dependent 
on that relatively small number of significant contracts at any given time, some 
of which are with the same customers.
Availability of financing Financial
The Group’s growth in the longer term will to some extent at least be 
dependent on the availability of debt financing.
 — Medium-term secured debt facility agreed in mid-2013 and in place for up 
to three years, providing a financial platform to fund future growth and 
ensure that there is no impact on operations
 — Options for alternative or improved financing terms or facilities kept under 
review by management
Liquidity risk Financial
The Group’s leverage, debt service obligations and requirements to comply 
with related covenants, may in the longer term adversely affect its business, 
financial condition and results of operations and it may be affected by difficult 
conditions in the credit markets.
The Group’s revenues, cash flow and earnings may vary considerably in any 
period depending on a number of factors, including its performance on major 
contracts.
 — Adequate levels of liquidity maintained in the form of cash and committed 
credit facilities, including medium-term secured debt facility agreed in 
mid-2013
 — Effective and regular cash flow forecasting and cash management
 — Established and reliable credit lines and for long-term financing with 
lending banks
 — Financial assets spread across multiple, creditworthy financial institutions
Counterparty credit risk Financial
The Group provides its products and services to a variety of contractual 
counterparties and is therefore subject to the risk of non-payment for products 
provided and services rendered or non-reimbursement of costs incurred. 
 — Credit checks on clients for major new contracts, particularly with 
new clients
 — Negotiated, effective contractual mechanisms for remedies, to manage 
commercial risk
 — Regular use of substantial advance payment amounts
Failure to deliver projected 
savings
Financial
In order for the Group’s business model to be effective and for it to remain 
competitive in its markets, it is essential to manage the overhead costs base 
and continue to do so on an ongoing basis, failing which there is a risk that it 
will be unable to maintain market share and/or win new major contracts.
 — In 2013 the Group implemented a series of improvements to productivity 
and cost efficiency, resulting in enhanced financial results for the years. 
It plans to continue and develop these improvements further in 2014.
 — Dedicated team created to implement the improvements to productivity 
and cost efficiency, with regular reporting to senior management.
Geopolitical risk, changes to 
fiscal regime(s)
Financial
The Group is subject to the legal, economic and political conditions of 
operating in emerging markets where legal systems are still developing and 
which do not offer the certainty or predictability of legal systems in mature 
markets. Continued instability and unrest in the MENA region may adversely 
affect the economies in which the Group does business. 
 — Most of Company’s business and personnel are located in the UAE which 
has a stable fiscal regime and international standards of living
 — Limited exposure to other countries in MENA, only when undertaken in 
tandem with a local partner or experienced client
 — Feasibility studies for major or key projects with unusual characteristics or 
unfamiliar environment
Equity financing risks Financial
If funds were raised through the issue of additional shares or other securities, 
this may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholdings.
 — Board evaluates all options for capital structure in determining what is in 
the best interests of the Company as a whole and its stakeholders
 — Strong and experienced management team, supported by high quality 
advisory teams Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27
Specific risk Type of risk Business implications Mitigating actions/factors
Securing new contracts Strategic
Failing to secure contracts at a price and on terms that deliver an acceptable 
return for the risk undertaken could cause potentially serious financial and 
resource allocation issues. The Group is working on converting its bid pipeline 
into firm orders against a backdrop of a highly competitive industry.
Demand for the Group’s products and services may be adversely impacted by a 
fall in the levels of expenditure by energy industry companies, or in the market 
in general.
 — Strong bid pipeline of USD 4.7 billion at 31 December 2013
 — Long-term and stable relationships with customers, who have awarded 
repeat contracts to the Group
 — Strengthened the business development function considerably
 — Clearly defined strategy to focus on core markets
 — Conduct customer satisfaction survey and maintain good levels of market 
intelligence 
Over-reliance on single product Strategic
A significant proportion of the Group’s revenue is expected to be generated 
from its new build jackup drilling rig business, the loss of which would 
significantly impact its operations and business.
As a corollary to the reliance on the single product, the Group is equally heavily 
dependent on one supplier for a key component part in that single product.
 — USD 0.9 billion of backlog at 31 December 2013 with a priority to rebuild 
the order book, while we rebalance the portfolio
 — Extending core markets into broader range of markets such as LNG and 
FPSOs
 — Greater focus by business development on platform and module 
construction
 — Effective and regular communication with main service provider to plan 
deliveries and identify any likely issues early in the build schedule
Fluctuations in order book Strategic
The Group’s visible order book can fluctuate significantly because the majority 
of the projects are lump-sum contracts, without long-term commitments, or 
relate to refurbishment work, which is often short-term work.
 — The Group has strong and stable relationships with its customers, a factor 
which is of particular significance for business in the Middle East
 — USD 0.9 billion of backlog at 31 December 2013 with a priority to rebuild 
the order book, while we rebalance the portfolio
 — Extending core markets into broader range of markets such as LNG and 
FPSOs
 — Strengthened the business development function considerably
Over-reliance on limited 
number of customers
The Company’s customer base is relatively small and our workload is dependent 
on that relatively small number of significant contracts at any given time, some 
of which are with the same customers.
Availability of financing Financial
The Group’s growth in the longer term will to some extent at least be 
dependent on the availability of debt financing.
 — Medium-term secured debt facility agreed in mid-2013 and in place for up 
to three years, providing a financial platform to fund future growth and 
ensure that there is no impact on operations
 — Options for alternative or improved financing terms or facilities kept under 
review by management
Liquidity risk Financial
The Group’s leverage, debt service obligations and requirements to comply 
with related covenants, may in the longer term adversely affect its business, 
financial condition and results of operations and it may be affected by difficult 
conditions in the credit markets.
The Group’s revenues, cash flow and earnings may vary considerably in any 
period depending on a number of factors, including its performance on major 
contracts.
 — Adequate levels of liquidity maintained in the form of cash and committed 
credit facilities, including medium-term secured debt facility agreed in 
mid-2013
 — Effective and regular cash flow forecasting and cash management
 — Established and reliable credit lines and for long-term financing with 
lending banks
 — Financial assets spread across multiple, creditworthy financial institutions
Counterparty credit risk Financial
The Group provides its products and services to a variety of contractual 
counterparties and is therefore subject to the risk of non-payment for products 
provided and services rendered or non-reimbursement of costs incurred. 
 — Credit checks on clients for major new contracts, particularly with 
new clients
 — Negotiated, effective contractual mechanisms for remedies, to manage 
commercial risk
 — Regular use of substantial advance payment amounts
Failure to deliver projected 
savings
Financial
In order for the Group’s business model to be effective and for it to remain 
competitive in its markets, it is essential to manage the overhead costs base 
and continue to do so on an ongoing basis, failing which there is a risk that it 
will be unable to maintain market share and/or win new major contracts.
 — In 2013 the Group implemented a series of improvements to productivity 
and cost efficiency, resulting in enhanced financial results for the years. 
It plans to continue and develop these improvements further in 2014.
 — Dedicated team created to implement the improvements to productivity 
and cost efficiency, with regular reporting to senior management.
Geopolitical risk, changes to 
fiscal regime(s)
Financial
The Group is subject to the legal, economic and political conditions of 
operating in emerging markets where legal systems are still developing and 
which do not offer the certainty or predictability of legal systems in mature 
markets. Continued instability and unrest in the MENA region may adversely 
affect the economies in which the Group does business. 
 — Most of Company’s business and personnel are located in the UAE which 
has a stable fiscal regime and international standards of living
 — Limited exposure to other countries in MENA, only when undertaken in 
tandem with a local partner or experienced client
 — Feasibility studies for major or key projects with unusual characteristics or 
unfamiliar environment
Equity financing risks Financial
If funds were raised through the issue of additional shares or other securities, 
this may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholdings.
 — Board evaluates all options for capital structure in determining what is in 
the best interests of the Company as a whole and its stakeholders
 — Strong and experienced management team, supported by high quality 
advisory teams 28 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Specific risk Type of risk Business implications Mitigating actions/factors
Project delivery Operational
On most projects, the Group operates on the basis of lump sum contracts and 
is therefore subject to financial or commercial or reputational risk if it fails to 
operate efficiently, within budget or events occur which prevent the Group 
from achieving its budgeted costs.
To the extent that the Group cannot engage sub-contractors or acquire equipment 
or materials according to its plans and budgets, its ability to complete a project 
by the agreed delivery deadline or at a profit may be impaired. 
 — New management structure with focus on projects resulted in 2013 
improved financial performance 
 — Various initiatives to reduce costs and to improve productivity and efficiency 
in the business
 — Rigorous contract management to manage commercial risk
 — Track progress reports at regular project meetings
 — Effective and regular communication with main service providers to plan 
deliveries, identify issues 
 — Regular budget forecast reports submitted to management identifying 
variances to budget
Yard capacity and capabilities Operational
While the Group has significant facility acreage and quayside access in the UAE, 
these are spread over its four main facilities and accordingly, do not provide the 
synergies of a single, massive yard.
Equally, the Group’s facility operations have to some extent grown organically 
and accordingly do not represent the optimum for flow of project construction.
 — New projects are being allocated to specific facilities to raise yard utilisation 
rates
 — Review being undertaken of the key facility in Hamriyah to determine 
optimal facility lay-out
 — Various initiatives to reduce costs and to improve productivity and efficiency 
in projects, and in the wider business
Personnel and management Operational
In the UAE, the Group faces and will continue to face significant competition 
for personnel with the skills it requires to sustain and grow its activities, 
particularly in light of the award of the Expo 2020 to Dubai. If the Group is 
unable to attract and retain personnel with the requisite skills, the business and 
prospects of the Group may be adversely affected. As a minimum, it is likely 
that the Company will be impacted by inflation and rising labour costs, 
potentially impacting the Group’s ability to be competitive on project tenders 
or bids.
 — Use of market-based remuneration packages and of long-term incentive 
plans for key personnel
 — Proper succession planning, training school and personnel development 
tools to ensure that employees see a long-term future with the Group
 — Implement a clear HR strategy designed to align the business strategy with 
the goal of attracting and retaining the high quality people 
 — UAE generally has high living standards and provides an appealing home 
for employees
Liabilities under contract Operational
As part of its standard contractual terms, the Group will provide warranties and 
accept liability relating to the procurement and/or provision of products and 
services, and accordingly can be made liable for them in the event of breaches 
of contract by the Group and that may materially and adversely affect the 
Company’s earnings.
 — Strong track record of delivering high quality products and services
 — Internal policies designed to set limits to Group’s contractual liability and 
risk
 — Appropriate insurance programme covering key contractual liabilities
 — Rigorous contract management to manage commercial risk
 — Keen focus on client satisfaction
Environmental, health and 
safety environment
Operational
The Group conducts its business within an increasingly strict environmental and 
health and safety framework, with new laws and regulations being issued from 
time to time, and this may expose the Group to potential liabilities and 
increased compliance costs.
 — High standards of safety within Group including TRIR of 0.67 in 2013
 — Appropriate HSE policies and procedures, with regular updates, monitoring 
and planning
 — Developing and encouraging a culture of safety awareness and continuous 
improvement
 — Effective HSE leadership by way of regular and close oversight by senior 
management 
Major shareholder Compliance and legal risks
The Company’s major shareholder, Lamprell Holdings Ltd., may have interests 
or intentions which differ from or conflict with the interests of other 
stakeholders.
 — Lamprell Holdings Ltd.’s shareholding has been stable for a considerable 
period
 — Lamprell Holdings Ltd. is a stated long-term strategic shareholder in the 
Company
 — Regular communication with major shareholder
Ethical breaches, regulatory 
compliance
Compliance and legal risks
The Group operates in some countries which are perceived to have relatively 
high corruption levels (as rated by Transparency International). Equally, because 
the Group operates in multiple jurisdictions where the laws and regulations 
may vary, non-compliance may potentially lead to damage to the business or 
reputation, and even to claims for compensation or fines.
 — Enterprise-wide policies to prevent and/or mitigate the risk of breach or 
non-compliance
 — Regular communications from senior management regarding compliance 
with key issues such as financial integrity
 — Training programme in progress relating the UK Bribery Act 2010
 — External whistleblowing hotline commissioned to enable reporting of 
non-compliance
 — Local advice and assistance is obtained to ensure compliance with all 
applicable laws
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29
Specific risk Type of risk Business implications Mitigating actions/factors
Project delivery Operational
On most projects, the Group operates on the basis of lump sum contracts and 
is therefore subject to financial or commercial or reputational risk if it fails to 
operate efficiently, within budget or events occur which prevent the Group 
from achieving its budgeted costs.
To the extent that the Group cannot engage sub-contractors or acquire equipment 
or materials according to its plans and budgets, its ability to complete a project 
by the agreed delivery deadline or at a profit may be impaired. 
 — New management structure with focus on projects resulted in 2013 
improved financial performance 
 — Various initiatives to reduce costs and to improve productivity and efficiency 
in the business
 — Rigorous contract management to manage commercial risk
 — Track progress reports at regular project meetings
 — Effective and regular communication with main service providers to plan 
deliveries, identify issues 
 — Regular budget forecast reports submitted to management identifying 
variances to budget
Yard capacity and capabilities Operational
While the Group has significant facility acreage and quayside access in the UAE, 
these are spread over its four main facilities and accordingly, do not provide the 
synergies of a single, massive yard.
Equally, the Group’s facility operations have to some extent grown organically 
and accordingly do not represent the optimum for flow of project construction.
 — New projects are being allocated to specific facilities to raise yard utilisation 
rates
 — Review being undertaken of the key facility in Hamriyah to determine 
optimal facility lay-out
 — Various initiatives to reduce costs and to improve productivity and efficiency 
in projects, and in the wider business
Personnel and management Operational
In the UAE, the Group faces and will continue to face significant competition 
for personnel with the skills it requires to sustain and grow its activities, 
particularly in light of the award of the Expo 2020 to Dubai. If the Group is 
unable to attract and retain personnel with the requisite skills, the business and 
prospects of the Group may be adversely affected. As a minimum, it is likely 
that the Company will be impacted by inflation and rising labour costs, 
potentially impacting the Group’s ability to be competitive on project tenders 
or bids.
 — Use of market-based remuneration packages and of long-term incentive 
plans for key personnel
 — Proper succession planning, training school and personnel development 
tools to ensure that employees see a long-term future with the Group
 — Implement a clear HR strategy designed to align the business strategy with 
the goal of attracting and retaining the high quality people 
 — UAE generally has high living standards and provides an appealing home 
for employees
Liabilities under contract Operational
As part of its standard contractual terms, the Group will provide warranties and 
accept liability relating to the procurement and/or provision of products and 
services, and accordingly can be made liable for them in the event of breaches 
of contract by the Group and that may materially and adversely affect the 
Company’s earnings.
 — Strong track record of delivering high quality products and services
 — Internal policies designed to set limits to Group’s contractual liability and 
risk
 — Appropriate insurance programme covering key contractual liabilities
 — Rigorous contract management to manage commercial risk
 — Keen focus on client satisfaction
Environmental, health and 
safety environment
Operational
The Group conducts its business within an increasingly strict environmental and 
health and safety framework, with new laws and regulations being issued from 
time to time, and this may expose the Group to potential liabilities and 
increased compliance costs.
 — High standards of safety within Group including TRIR of 0.67 in 2013
 — Appropriate HSE policies and procedures, with regular updates, monitoring 
and planning
 — Developing and encouraging a culture of safety awareness and continuous 
improvement
 — Effective HSE leadership by way of regular and close oversight by senior 
management 
Major shareholder Compliance and legal risks
The Company’s major shareholder, Lamprell Holdings Ltd., may have interests 
or intentions which differ from or conflict with the interests of other 
stakeholders.
 — Lamprell Holdings Ltd.’s shareholding has been stable for a considerable 
period
 — Lamprell Holdings Ltd. is a stated long-term strategic shareholder in the 
Company
 — Regular communication with major shareholder
Ethical breaches, regulatory 
compliance
Compliance and legal risks
The Group operates in some countries which are perceived to have relatively 
high corruption levels (as rated by Transparency International). Equally, because 
the Group operates in multiple jurisdictions where the laws and regulations 
may vary, non-compliance may potentially lead to damage to the business or 
reputation, and even to claims for compensation or fines.
 — Enterprise-wide policies to prevent and/or mitigate the risk of breach or 
non-compliance
 — Regular communications from senior management regarding compliance 
with key issues such as financial integrity
 — Training programme in progress relating the UK Bribery Act 2010
 — External whistleblowing hotline commissioned to enable reporting of 
non-compliance
 — Local advice and assistance is obtained to ensure compliance with all 
applicable laws 30 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Our goal at Lamprell is to build  
a sustainable business that will 
benefit all of our stakeholders  
for years to come. Using the  
key strengths of first-class 
safety, quality, reliability,  
client satisfaction and strong 
management as the foundation 
of our business, we pursue 
opportunities to improve our 
performance, to minimise our 
impact on the environment  
and to contribute to the 
wellbeing of our employees  
and the communities in which 
we operate. 
Health and safety
Safety is a fundamental value within 
Lamprell. In 2013, all three of our major 
facilities were certified at the internationally 
recognised OHSAS18001 standard. We also 
set strategic objectives, KPI targets and key 
deliverables in the area of health and safety. 
The KPI targets included zero fatalities, a 
lost-time injury frequency rate of under 0.03 
and a total recordable injury rate of under 
0.65. Although we narrowly missed one of 
our KPI targets in 2013, we made significant 
progress on all of them, and are in a very 
strong position to further develop and 
improve our performance in 2014.
Our major projects passed significant health 
and safety milestones in 2013. On 21 
December 2013, the Nexen wellhead and 
PUQ decks project, with 9 million man-hours 
without a LTI, set a new record for us. This is 
a world-class achievement for a project of 
this size and complexity.
In 2013 we executed a number of health and 
safety programmes, including an enhanced 
heat stress programme aimed at minimising 
heat-related illnesses among our workers, 
and a hand injury prevention campaign.
Environment
By their nature Lamprell’s activities have  
an impact on the environment, directly 
through the conduct of our business 
operations and indirectly through the 
products and services we provide to our 
customers. We have an obligation to our 
stakeholders to minimise the environmental 
impact of our Company activities.
In 2013, we successfully obtained 
certification of our environmental 
management system to the externally 
certified ISO14001 standard for each of our 
major facilities. We started to report our 
greenhouse gas emissions publicly through 
the carbon disclosure project, and conducted 
ambient air and water quality monitoring of 
pollutants at our facilities.
We significantly enhanced our waste 
management and minimisation practices. We 
introduced indoor waste recycling, upgraded 
our waste liquid storage areas, expanded our 
outdoor onsite recycling programme and 
launched our “Managed Print Services” 
campaign, which reduced our paper 
consumption by over 50% and paper waste 
by over 90%.
Corporate social responsibility
Collaborating with the communities in which 
we operate is vital to our business.
In 2013, Lamprell continued its educational 
programme by hosting MBA students from 
Villanova University in Pennsylvania at its 
Hamriyah facility to give them an insight into 
our operations.
We also continued to support the only 
non-profit rugby club in the UAE, the 
Arabian Knights Rugby Football Club.  
The club is run by volunteers and raises 
money for the Christina Noble Children’s 
Foundation, which supports poor children  
in Vietnam and Mongolia.
Embracing our 
commitments
Sustainability Report
2013 key health and safety statistics
Metric Target KPI Actual outturn
Total  
man-hours:
– 33,831,170
LTI rate: 
0.03 0.02
TRIR:
0.65 0.67
Fatalities:
0 0
12-month rolling 
TRIR Target, 0.55
Feb 13
LTI 
Actual
TRIR 
Actual
TRIR 
Target
Mar 13 Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 Jul 13 Aug 13 Sep 13 Oct 13 Nov 13 Dec 13 Jan14
0.08
0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.02
0.03
0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
0.02
1.00
1.10
0.98
0.84
0.87 0.88
0.81
0.76
0.72
0.71
0.68
0.65
20
1
1
1
LTI and TRIR rates Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31
We supported the recovery efforts following 
the devastating typhoon in the Philippines at 
the end of 2013 by donating USD 10,000, 
organising a donation of goods from our 
employees and by supporting a trip for one 
of our qualified nurses to assist the efforts  
in conjunction with a registered charity on 
the ground. 
Finally, we made a donation of USD 40,000 
to the Don Bosco organisation to support its 
continuing initiative to provide shelter and 
accommodation for underprivileged children 
in India.
Quality
In 2013, Lamprell received the ISO/TS 
29001:2010 certification for the Sharjah (Port 
Khalid) & Jebel Ali facilities from Bureau Veritas. 
ISO/TS 29001:2010 certification is a Quality 
Management System Certification specific to 
the oil, gas and petrochemicals industry, and it 
is equivalent to API Q1-Eighth Edition Standard. 
Our Hamriyah Free Zone facility is already 
certified to both API Q1 and ISO/TS 29001, and 
this new certification further strengthens our 
standing in the industry.
In addition, our land rig services (Hamriyah 
facility) business passed an extensive 
recertification audit, and we are preparing 
for a review of the API Q1 ninth edition 
compliance. 
Following successful audits, our principal 
facilities and our Sharjah facility were recertified 
ISO 9001:2008 and ASME, respectively. 
Performance improvements
In 2013, Lamprell demonstrated good 
operational performance, having recovered 
from the challenges of the previous year. 
However, we need to protect our competitive 
position in the market and secure sustainable 
growth. In 2013 we introduced a series of 
improvements to enhance overall performance:
• Project Compass: represented the 
implementation plan for phase one of our 
Oracle-based ERP system, namely finance, 
payroll and human resources. Early in 
2013, we recruited a dedicated ERP team 
led by an experienced ERP project 
director. The programme was overseen by 
the senior management from the outset 
and there was regular progress 
monitoring and reporting, resulting in 
delivery on time and on budget. The 
project team is now undertaking the 
scoping exercise for phase two. 
• Project Evolution: we established a 
dedicated team tasked with implementing 
the productivity improvements and costs 
efficiency activities, which in turn will help 
us to become more competitive and 
ultimately win more work. 
• Cost Reduction Opportunity 
Programme (“CROP”): aims to get all 
Lamprell employees involved in creating a 
more efficient, safe and cost effective 
working environment. We identify 
opportunities where cost could be 
reduced by either adapting or altering a 
current system, process or technology to 
make it more effective and efficient, or by 
implementing a new process, system or 
technology to ensure best practice.
Employee welfare
Employees are at the centre of our business, 
and their continued training and welfare are 
critical to our continued success. With that  
in mind, in 2013 we announced a number  
of initiatives to invest in our people for the 
long term.
Firstly, we have announced the opening of 
the Lamprell Assessment and Training Centre 
(“LATC”) in Sharjah, which is designed to 
support yard production and project 
management by providing an independent 
centre of excellence for technical and HSE 
training and supervisory assessments. The 
LATC (together with certain managers) will 
be responsible for the design and integrity of 
trade and supervisory assessment methods 
and materials. All new hire tradesperson 
candidates will be assessed at the LATC, and 
no yard promotions will be approved until 
the candidates have satisfied LATC 
assessment standards.
We continued to support measures to 
protect our employees’ health. In May 2013, 
we held a “Health Screening Camp” offering 
free health screening at our major facilities in 
the UAE. In addition, we conducted a breast 
cancer awareness session, in which our 
female employees had an opportunity to 
attend a presentation on the risks and 
prevention of the disease and discuss any 
concerns with a specialist doctor. 
Name: Rabie Mahmoud 
Hamdeh
Job Title: Senior IT Systems 
Engineer
Years at Lamprell: 8 
Country of origin: Palestine
I really enjoy coming to work every day 
knowing I am bringing good value to 
my team as well as to the Company. I 
also very much appreciate that Lamprell 
provides me with a clear, individual 
personal development plan, helping me 
to achieve my long and short-term 
objectives and to give me the visibility 
for my ongoing career development. 32 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Commitment  
to Reliability Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33
Greatship Group 
Project: “Greatdrill Chaaya” rig
Type: LeTourneau Super 116E rig
Facility: Hamriyah
Delivery: January 2013
Lamprell delivered the rig to the client, the 
Greatship group, only 18 months after initial 
steel cutting, on time and on budget. 
Lamprell modified the spud can design in 
order to allow the unit to operate in India’s 
offshore waters. 34 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
John Kennedy
Non-Executive Chairman
Aged 64
James Moffat
Chief Executive Officer
Aged 60
Jo Curin
Chief Financial Officer
Aged 55
Michael Press
Senior Independent Director
Aged 67
Ellis Armstrong
Non-Executive Director
Aged 56
John Malcolm
Non-Executive Director
Aged 63
Peter Whitbread
Non-Executive Director
Aged 69
Appointment to the Board 15 June 2012 19 March 2013 1 October 2013 27 May 2013 27 May 2013 27 May 2013 4 October 2012
Background and experience Mr. Kennedy is a highly 
experienced engineer who 
spent most of his executive 
career in the oilfield services 
sector. He started his career  
in Schlumberger and then 
moved to Halliburton where  
he ultimately held the role of 
Executive Vice President. From 
2003 to 2011 Mr. Kennedy held 
the position of Executive 
Chairman of Wellstream 
Holdings Plc until its successful 
acquisition by GE in 2009. 
Currently he serves as an 
adviser to several oilfield  
service companies.
In 1993, Mr. Kennedy received 
the Sloan Fellowship, London 
Business School. He is a 
Chartered Engineer and  
fellow of the Institution  
of Electrical Engineers. 
Mr. Moffat has over 35 years  
of experience in the offshore 
engineering, construction and 
project management sectors. 
From 1996 and until joining the 
Lamprell Group, Mr. Moffat was 
employed with KBR group of 
companies, working in various 
roles including heading up the 
KJV on the Gorgon Project, 
Australia. Mr. Moffat worked 
for the McDermott group from 
1977 to 1996 where he latterly 
managed the Batam facility  
in Indonesia.
Mr Moffat is a Chartered 
Engineer and has a BSc (Hons) 
in Civil Engineering from 
Edinburgh University and is a 
member of the Institution of 
Civil Engineers.
Joanne Curin has over 20 
years’ experience working in 
senior finance roles across 
various sectors. Most 
recently, she has been a 
Non-Executive Director and 
the Chair of the Audit 
Committee for both WS 
Atkins plc and Deep Ocean 
Group Holdings AS. During 
the period from 1998 until 
2011, Joanne held senior 
management roles in a 
number of large 
organisations including CFO 
for Lend Lease Corporation 
and CFO for P&O.
Ms. Curin has a Bachelor of 
Commerce from Auckland 
University and is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants.
Michael Press acts as a Director 
to a number of companies in the 
energy sector, notably in the 
role of Lead Independent 
Director for Chart Industries, Inc. 
and as a Non-Executive Director 
for Thermon Group Holdings, 
Inc. Previously, Mr. Press served 
as Senior Independent Director 
at Petrofac Limited for nine 
years until 2010. Prior to that he 
spent 27 years in the energy 
sector in senior management 
positions.
Mr. Press has a BSc in 
Mathematics from Colorado 
College and Master of Science 
in Operations Research from 
Columbia University School of 
Engineering, NY.
Ellis Armstrong is a senior 
executive within the energy 
industry with wide international 
experience. Mr. Armstrong has 
worked for more than 30 years 
with BP, where he held a variety 
of operational and leadership 
roles including line operating 
roles in the North Sea and 
Alaska, VP for Latin America and 
Caribbean, Head of Technology 
and, most recently, CFO.
Mr. Armstrong is a Chartered 
Engineer with a BSc and a PhD, 
both in Civil Engineering, from 
Imperial College, and a Masters 
in Business Administration  
from Stanford.
After 25 years with Shell 
International Exploration and 
Production, John Malcolm 
retired from the Shell group at 
the end of 2010 to become an 
independent consultant to the 
energy industry. During his 
tenure at Shell, he held various 
senior management positions 
including most recently as MD 
for Petroleum Development 
Oman from 2002-2010.
Mr. Malcolm has been a 
Chartered Engineer with the UK 
Engineering Council since 1979 
and has a Ph.D. in Process 
Control Systems, from the 
Heriot Watt University which he 
obtained in 1975.
A Chartered Quantity 
Surveyor with over 35 years 
of experience in the oil & 
gas services sector, with 
extensive experience in 
marine construction and 
project management, heavy 
marine equipment and 
vessels companies, Peter 
was appointed as the CEO 
of Lamprell in 1992. He held 
this position until May 2009 
and was also the Chairman 
of the Group until 5 
February 2008. During his 
career he has held a number 
of other senior management 
positions and directorships 
with marine construction 
companies in the Middle 
East region.
External appointments Non-Executive Director of  
CRH plc
Non-Executive Chairman  
of Maxwell Drummond 
International Limited and  
BiFold Group Limited
None Non-Executive Director of 
Deep Ocean Group 
Holdings AS
Non-Executive Director of Chart 
Industries Inc.
Non-Executive Director of 
Thermon Group Holdings, Inc.
Non-Executive Chairman of 
TWMA Ltd.
None Non-Executive Director of 
Foster Wheeler AG, Partex Oil & 
Gas (Holdings) Corp., 
Aquamarine Power Ltd., Oman 
Oil Co. Exploration & 
Production LLC and a Director 
of Bellwood Enterprises Ltd
None
Committees Member of the Nomination  
& Governance Committee
None None Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee
Member of the Audit & Risk 
Committee
Chairman of the Audit & Risk 
Committee
Member of the Nomination & 
Governance Committee
Chairman of the Nomination & 
Governance Committee
Member of the Remuneration 
Committee
None
Board of Directors Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35
John Kennedy
Non-Executive Chairman
Aged 64
James Moffat
Chief Executive Officer
Aged 60
Jo Curin
Chief Financial Officer
Aged 55
Michael Press
Senior Independent Director
Aged 67
Ellis Armstrong
Non-Executive Director
Aged 56
John Malcolm
Non-Executive Director
Aged 63
Peter Whitbread
Non-Executive Director
Aged 69
Appointment to the Board 15 June 2012 19 March 2013 1 October 2013 27 May 2013 27 May 2013 27 May 2013 4 October 2012
Background and experience Mr. Kennedy is a highly 
experienced engineer who 
spent most of his executive 
career in the oilfield services 
sector. He started his career  
in Schlumberger and then 
moved to Halliburton where  
he ultimately held the role of 
Executive Vice President. From 
2003 to 2011 Mr. Kennedy held 
the position of Executive 
Chairman of Wellstream 
Holdings Plc until its successful 
acquisition by GE in 2009. 
Currently he serves as an 
adviser to several oilfield  
service companies.
In 1993, Mr. Kennedy received 
the Sloan Fellowship, London 
Business School. He is a 
Chartered Engineer and  
fellow of the Institution  
of Electrical Engineers. 
Mr. Moffat has over 35 years  
of experience in the offshore 
engineering, construction and 
project management sectors. 
From 1996 and until joining the 
Lamprell Group, Mr. Moffat was 
employed with KBR group of 
companies, working in various 
roles including heading up the 
KJV on the Gorgon Project, 
Australia. Mr. Moffat worked 
for the McDermott group from 
1977 to 1996 where he latterly 
managed the Batam facility  
in Indonesia.
Mr Moffat is a Chartered 
Engineer and has a BSc (Hons) 
in Civil Engineering from 
Edinburgh University and is a 
member of the Institution of 
Civil Engineers.
Joanne Curin has over 20 
years’ experience working in 
senior finance roles across 
various sectors. Most 
recently, she has been a 
Non-Executive Director and 
the Chair of the Audit 
Committee for both WS 
Atkins plc and Deep Ocean 
Group Holdings AS. During 
the period from 1998 until 
2011, Joanne held senior 
management roles in a 
number of large 
organisations including CFO 
for Lend Lease Corporation 
and CFO for P&O.
Ms. Curin has a Bachelor of 
Commerce from Auckland 
University and is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants.
Michael Press acts as a Director 
to a number of companies in the 
energy sector, notably in the 
role of Lead Independent 
Director for Chart Industries, Inc. 
and as a Non-Executive Director 
for Thermon Group Holdings, 
Inc. Previously, Mr. Press served 
as Senior Independent Director 
at Petrofac Limited for nine 
years until 2010. Prior to that he 
spent 27 years in the energy 
sector in senior management 
positions.
Mr. Press has a BSc in 
Mathematics from Colorado 
College and Master of Science 
in Operations Research from 
Columbia University School of 
Engineering, NY.
Ellis Armstrong is a senior 
executive within the energy 
industry with wide international 
experience. Mr. Armstrong has 
worked for more than 30 years 
with BP, where he held a variety 
of operational and leadership 
roles including line operating 
roles in the North Sea and 
Alaska, VP for Latin America and 
Caribbean, Head of Technology 
and, most recently, CFO.
Mr. Armstrong is a Chartered 
Engineer with a BSc and a PhD, 
both in Civil Engineering, from 
Imperial College, and a Masters 
in Business Administration  
from Stanford.
After 25 years with Shell 
International Exploration and 
Production, John Malcolm 
retired from the Shell group at 
the end of 2010 to become an 
independent consultant to the 
energy industry. During his 
tenure at Shell, he held various 
senior management positions 
including most recently as MD 
for Petroleum Development 
Oman from 2002-2010.
Mr. Malcolm has been a 
Chartered Engineer with the UK 
Engineering Council since 1979 
and has a Ph.D. in Process 
Control Systems, from the 
Heriot Watt University which he 
obtained in 1975.
A Chartered Quantity 
Surveyor with over 35 years 
of experience in the oil & 
gas services sector, with 
extensive experience in 
marine construction and 
project management, heavy 
marine equipment and 
vessels companies, Peter 
was appointed as the CEO 
of Lamprell in 1992. He held 
this position until May 2009 
and was also the Chairman 
of the Group until 5 
February 2008. During his 
career he has held a number 
of other senior management 
positions and directorships 
with marine construction 
companies in the Middle 
East region.
External appointments Non-Executive Director of  
CRH plc
Non-Executive Chairman  
of Maxwell Drummond 
International Limited and  
BiFold Group Limited
None Non-Executive Director of 
Deep Ocean Group 
Holdings AS
Non-Executive Director of Chart 
Industries Inc.
Non-Executive Director of 
Thermon Group Holdings, Inc.
Non-Executive Chairman of 
TWMA Ltd.
None Non-Executive Director of 
Foster Wheeler AG, Partex Oil & 
Gas (Holdings) Corp., 
Aquamarine Power Ltd., Oman 
Oil Co. Exploration & 
Production LLC and a Director 
of Bellwood Enterprises Ltd
None
Committees Member of the Nomination  
& Governance Committee
None None Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee
Member of the Audit & Risk 
Committee
Chairman of the Audit & Risk 
Committee
Member of the Nomination & 
Governance Committee
Chairman of the Nomination & 
Governance Committee
Member of the Remuneration 
Committee
None 36 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The Directors present the Annual Report on the affairs of the 
Company and the Group together with the financial statements and 
the auditor’s report for the year ended 31 December 2013. Lamprell 
plc is the holding company of the Group, and it was admitted to 
listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange on  
6 November 2008.
Principal activities
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of diversified 
engineering, contracting and fabrication services and products to the 
energy industry and in particular to the onshore and offshore oil and 
gas and renewables industries. The Group operates through a number 
of subsidiaries which are set out in Note 1 to the financial statements.
The principal activity of the Company is to act as a holding company 
for the Group.
Results and dividends
The financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 
December 2013 are set out on pages 63 to 105. The Group’s profit 
from continuing and discontinued operations after income tax and 
exceptional items for the year amounted to USD 36.4 million (2012: 
loss after income tax and exceptional items of USD 111.2 million).
The Directors do not recommend the payment of any dividend for 
the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
There was an increase of USD 36.8 million (2012: reduction of 
USD 129.4 million) in retained earnings for the year ended 31 
December 2013 representing the profit for the year, adjustments for 
share-based payments and remeasurement of post-employment 
benefit obligations. For details refer to the Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity on page 67.
Business review and future developments
A full review of the Group’s activities during the year, recent events 
and future developments is contained in the Chairman’s Statement 
on pages 4 to 5, the Chief Executive Officer’s Report on pages 10 to 
11, the Business Review on pages 22 to 25, and the Financial Review 
on pages 18 to 19.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks the Group faces. A detailed analysis of 
the principal risks and uncertainties can be found on pages 26 to 29.
Corporate governance and corporate social responsibility
The Corporate Governance Report, which also includes the 
Sustainability Report, on pages 30 to 31 and 39 to 48 provides full 
details on the efforts made by the Company in the areas of 
corporate governance, corporate social responsibility and 
sustainability activities within the business.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Details of Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 
2013 can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 
49 to 61. This includes both the Company’s policy on remuneration 
as well as the Annual Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 
December 2013.
Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association provide for a Board of 
Directors consisting of not fewer than two but not more than 12 
Directors, who manage the business and affairs of the Company. 
The Directors may appoint additional or replacement Directors, who 
shall serve until the next Annual General Meeting (the “AGM”) of 
the Company at which point they will be required to stand for 
re-election by the members. 
At each AGM, one-third or the number nearest to one third of the 
Directors are required to retire by rotation and they may stand for 
re-election. A Director may be removed from office at a general 
meeting by the passing of an ordinary resolution. In accordance with 
the Company’s Articles of Association, Michael Press, John Malcolm, 
Ellis Armstrong, Joanne Curin and Peter Whitbread will retire and 
will offer themselves for reappointment at the Company’s 2014 AGM.
The Directors who served in office during the financial year were as 
follows:
• John Kennedy
• James Moffat (appointed on 19 March 2013)
• Joanne Curin (appointed on 1 October 2013)
• Peter Whitbread
• Frank Nelson (resigned on 31 October 2013)
• Michael Press (appointed 27 May 2013)
• John Malcolm (appointed 27 May 2013)
• Ellis Armstrong (appointed 27 May 2013)
• Jonathan Silver (retired on 27 May 2013)
• Colin Goodall (retired on 27 May 2013)
• Deena Mattar (retired on 27 May 2013)
Directors’ interests
The Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are 
set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 59.
Capital structure and significant shareholders
Details of the authorised and issued share capital together with 
details of movements in share capital during the year are included in 
Note 25 to the financial statements. The Company has one class of 
share in issue, ordinary shares of 5 pence each, all of which are fully 
paid. Each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights including one 
vote per share on a poll at general meetings of the Company, 
subject to the terms of the Company’s Articles of Association and 
applicable laws. Votes may be exercised by shareholders attending 
or otherwise duly represented at general meetings. Deadlines for 
the exercise of voting rights by proxy on a poll at a general meeting 
are detailed in the notice of meeting and proxy cards issued in 
connection with the relevant meeting. There are no restrictions on 
the transfer of shares.
Directors’ Report Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37
Details of employee share schemes are disclosed on pages 50 to 55 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and in Note 10 to the financial 
statements. During the year the following awards of ordinary shares of 5 pence were granted:
Granted Outstanding
2013 2012 2013 2012
Lamprell plc Free Share Award Plan (“FSP”) Nil 287,500 127,500 217,500
Lamprell plc Retention Share Plan (“RSP”) Nil Nil Nil Nil
Lamprell plc Executive Share Option Plan (“ESOP”) Nil
1
Nil Nil Nil
Lamprell plc Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) Nil 507,216 157,471 271,388
1 No awards were made to Executive Directors under this plan in 2013. However, please refer to the commentary on page 57 for details of the incentive mechanisms used in order 
to attract and recruit the interim executives and the permanent CEO during 2012 and 2013. Please see the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 61 for more details.
The awards under the Lamprell plc FSP, RSP and LTIP are granted at nil price. 
Pursuant to the Company’s share schemes, the Employee Benefit Trust as at the year-end, held a total of 14,686 (2012: 14,686) ordinary 
shares of 5 pence, representing less than 0.01% (2012: 0.01%) of the issued share capital. The voting rights attaching to these shares cannot 
be exercised directly by the employees, but can be exercised by the trustees. However, in line with good practice, the trustees do not exercise 
these voting rights. In the event of another company taking control of the Company, the employee share schemes operated by the Company 
have set change of control provisions. In short, awards may, in certain circumstances and in approved proportions, be allowed to vest early or 
be allowed to be exchanged for awards of equivalent value in the acquiring company.
The Company was given authority at the 2013 AGM to make market purchases of up to 26,000,000 ordinary shares of 5 pence. This authority 
will expire at the 2014 AGM, where approval from shareholders will be sought to renew the authority. 
Approval from shareholders is also proposed to be sought to authorise the Directors to allot the Company’s unissued shares up to a maximum 
nominal amount of £3,900,000, representing approximately 30% of the Company’s current issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury 
shares) and to issue equity securities of the Company for cash to persons other than existing shareholders, other than in connection with 
existing exemptions contained in the Company’s Articles of Association or in connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other similar issue, up 
to an aggregate nominal value of GBP 650,000 representing approximately 5% of the current issued ordinary share capital of the Company. 
Similar authorities were given by the shareholders at the AGM in 2013 and the authorities now sought, if granted, will expire on the earlier of 
the conclusion of the AGM of the Company next year and the date which is 15 months after the granting of the authorities.
As at 25 March 2014, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the significant interests in the voting 
rights of the Company’s issued ordinary shares as per notification received by the Company (at or above the 3% notification threshold) were 
as follows:
Voting rights 
attaching to 
issued total of 
ordinary shares
% of total 
voting rights
Lamprell Holdings Limited 86,234,127 33.12
Schroder plc 33,963,942 13.05
Prudential plc group of companies 15,038,090 5.77
Massachusetts Financial Services Co 13,328,527 5.12
Legg Mason Inc 12,968,030 4.98
Norges Bank 7,935,281 3.05
Essential Contracts
There are no individual contracts or other arrangements which are deemed essential to the Group’s business.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s 2014 AGM will be held at Level 15, Rolex Tower, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, United Arab Emirates on Tuesday 10 June 2014 
at 10:00 am (UAE time). The notice of meeting and an explanatory circular to shareholders setting out the AGM business will accompany this 
Annual Report. 38 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Payment policy
The Group’s policy in respect of its vendors is to agree and establish 
terms of payment when contracting for the goods or services and to 
abide by those payment terms. The Company is the holding 
company of the Group and has no trade creditors.
Charitable and political donations
During the year the Group made no political donations (2012: nil), 
and made charitable donations amounting to USD 50,000 (2012: 
USD 62,708).
Auditors
As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware. In 
addition, each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
The auditor for the year ended 31 December 2013 was 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PwC”). PwC has expressed its willingness 
to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint it will 
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Going concern
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a 
going concern basis. After reviewing its cash flow forecasts for a 
period of not less than 12 months from the date of signing these 
financial statements, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Group 
therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
its financial statements.
The financial information has been prepared under the historical cost 
convention, except as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have elected to 
prepare the financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European 
Union. The financial statements are required by law to give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company 
and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing 
these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above 
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them 
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Isle of Man 
Companies Acts 1931 to 2004. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the Company’s website. Legislation in the Isle of Man governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
pages 34 to 35 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss 
of the Group; and
• the Directors’ Report contained on pages 36 to 38 includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Group, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Subsequent events
Post the year-end, on 3 March 2014, the Company announced 
the sale of one of its service businesses, Inspec, to Intertek 
Testing Services Holdings Limited for a total cash consideration 
of USD 66.2 million. 
By order of the Board
Alex Ridout
Company Secretary
25 March 2014
Directors’ Report continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39
Letter from the Chairman
Over the recent years, there has been a keener focus from the 
investor community both for effective corporate governance and  
for improved disclosures by listed companies and at Lamprell we  
are looking to take on board such comments from stakeholders.  
For that reason, I was pleased to oversee a number of positive 
developments in these areas.
Through the major changes at the Board level, we created an 
excellent balance of complementary strengths with the arrivals of 
Jim Moffat and Jo Curin as CEO and CFO respectively and with 
Michael Press, Ellis Armstrong and John Malcolm being appointed as 
new Non-Executive Directors. Peter Whitbread moved across from 
an executive to a non-executive role and so we continue to benefit 
from his vast experience of both the industry and Lamprell’s 
business specifically.
Among the executive management team, there have been 
considerable changes as well where a number of managers at the 
Vice President level have joined the Company since the beginning of 
2013. It is testament to the underlying strength of the Company’s 
reputation that so many senior managers wanted to join the 
management team in spite of the difficulties faced in 2012.
The new management team, led by Jim Moffat, conducted an 
in-depth review of the strategy of the Company and the Board has 
played an integral role in guiding the process. In early 2013 the then 
management team repositioned the Company to focus on its core 
markets and deliver on its existing projects. As a result of the 
subsequent strategy review, the team has formulated business plans 
so as to develop each of the core businesses in ways to ensure that 
Lamprell is competitively positioned for sustainable growth over the 
long term.
There have also been corporate governance improvements within 
the control framework. An acknowledged weakness within the 
business related to our ERP system and so it was reassuring to see 
our internal team successfully launch phase one of our new ERP 
system in December, on time and on budget. 
The Board has implemented a process for ongoing evaluation of its 
effectiveness, as well as that of the Board Committees and the 
individual directors. The process has confirmed that the Board, 
Board Committees and individual Directors are performing 
effectively and specific feedback was given to enhance performance.
We achieved a great deal during 2013 but we recognise that we still 
have much to do. With the strong management team now in place 
and with the new Board keen to deliver improved returns to 
shareholders, we will be aiming to raise the corporate governance 
standards within the Company further during 2014. 
John Kennedy
Non-Executive Chairman
Lamprell plc
25 March 2014
Corporate Governance Report
Committee membership
Audit & Risk Committee: Length of service on Committee:
Ellis Armstrong
1
0.5 years
Michael Press 0.5 years
Nomination & Governance Committee: Length of service on Committee:
John Malcolm 0.5 years
John Kennedy 1.5 years
Ellis Armstrong 0.5 years
Remuneration Committee: Length of service on Committee:
Michael Press 0.5 years
John Malcolm 0.5 years
Senior Independent Director
Michael Press
1 Financial Expert on the Audit & Risk Committee. 40 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Leadership by the Board
Role of the Board and its principal Committees
The primary role of the Board is to provide leadership of the 
Company and to ensure that the Company delivers sustainable 
growth over the longer term to its shareholders and other 
stakeholders. It achieves these goals by making decisions relating to 
a number of key areas for the business, by overseeing the activities 
of the executive management team, and by delegating certain 
matters for resolution through the principal Board Committees, 
namely the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration 
Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee.
The Board retains sole discretion to make determinations in relation 
to key areas and these are defined in a formal schedule of matters 
reserved to the Board, the principal matters being:
• Consideration and approval of the strategy for the Company
• Approval of the annual budget, financial statements and interim 
financial statements
• General oversight of the Group’s operations
• Internal controls and the Company’s overall corporate 
governance arrangements
• Authorisation for material contracts in excess of USD 100 million
• Major acquisitions, investments and disposals
• Matters relating to the Company’s capital structure
• Approval of the dividend policy
• Appointments/removals of Directors and Board composition
The activities of the three principal Board Committees are detailed in 
the relevant written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually 
and are available on the Company’s website.
Board composition and key roles
As at 25 March 2014, the Board has seven Directors, consisting of 
the Non-Executive Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors (“NED”)
and two Executive Directors. The Board of Directors represents a 
strong combination of industry, regional and operational experience, 
supported by the diverse professional skills of the Non-Executive 
Directors and their roles are summarised as follows:
Chairman
John Kennedy has been the Company’s Non-Executive Chairman 
since 15 June 2012 and he leads the Board and all general meetings 
within a solid corporate governance framework, and he ensures that 
the Board provides effective leadership for the Group including 
strategy and direction.
Chief Executive Officer 
James Moffat took over the role of CEO (from the Interim CEO, Peter 
Whitbread) with effect from 1 March 2013. As CEO, he leads the 
Executive Directors and the senior executive team in the day to day 
running of the Group’s business, including execution of the Group’s 
business plans and objectives and communicating its decisions/
recommendations to the Board.
Chief Financial Officer
Jo Curin only recently joined the Group in October 2013, taking over 
from the previous CFO, Frank Nelson, who left the Group for 
personal reasons. Jo’s primary role comprises the management of 
the various finance function and activities within the Group, 
information technology and interaction with the banking and 
financial investor community.
Senior Independent Director (“SID”)
Michael Press is the current SID within the Group and has been in 
the role since 27 May 2013. Michael is available to shareholders or 
other stakeholders if they have any concerns for which contact 
through the normal channels of the Chairman, the CEO or the CFO 
cannot be resolved or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Non-Executive Directors
Michael Press, John Malcolm and Ellis Armstrong are considered by 
the Board to be independent NEDs in accordance with the definition 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 (the “Code”). Peter 
Whitbread acted in the capacity as an Executive Director until 13 
February 2014 when the Board approved his revised role as a NED 
(although he is not considered to be independent for the purposes 
of the Code). The NEDs fulfil a critical role to constructively challenge 
all recommendations presented to the Board for approval and to 
provide the benefit of their experience and expertise to manage risk 
within the Group and enhance delivery of the overall strategy.
The biographical information and commitments of each of the 
Directors are detailed on pages 34 to 35. The memberships for each 
of the principal Board Committees are detailed on page 39.
Board independence
The Board considers that independence is a matter of judgement and 
therefore it believes that the independent NEDs should be free from 
any business or other relationships that could materially interfere in 
the exercise of their independent judgement, in compliance with the 
provisions of paragraph B.1.1 of the Code. The Chairman of the 
Board was, when appointed, also independent in accordance with 
the definition of the Code.
The Board has been in compliance with the provisions of the Code 
regarding independence on the Board since the changes at the 
Board in May 2013, since when at least half of the Board (excluding 
the Chairman) have been and continued to be considered as 
independent NEDs. However, until May 2013, the Board was not 
in compliance with the Code as less than half the Board were 
independent NEDs, namely only Colin Goodall and Deena Mattar. It 
should also be noted that, at the time of publication of this report, 
the Board is actively searching for additional candidates for an 
independent NED and the Company will make announcements in 
that regard as required.
Corporate Governance Report continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41
Board: key discussion topics during 2013
The Directors regularly discussed certain agenda items at every Board meeting but the management team also presented on key business 
topics at the meetings, as summarised below:
Key agenda items at every Board meeting:
Safety update on enterprise-wide statistics
CEO’s report including update on major projects
CFO’s report including regular updates on banking
Legal and corporate governance matters
Reports from the Committees
Private session between the Chairman and NEDs
Key business topic presentations at various Board meetings:
February 2013:  
Review of service businesses
March 2013:  
None
May 2013:  
Electronic papers
July 2013:  
Regulatory framework and 
corporate governance
August 2013:  
Marketing and business 
development
November 2013: 
Personnel and HR
January 2014:  
Strategy
Board attendance
During 2013, while the Board met in person seven times as originally planned, the Board remained heavily engaged with the management 
team in discussing and resolving issues arising on an urgent basis and so many additional meetings were convened by telephone conference 
call as well, resulting in a total of 20 meetings. Accordingly, all Directors committed sufficient time to address matters requiring Board 
involvement. Attendance by the Directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees during 2013 is summarised in the table below:
Board
Audit & Risk 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination & 
Governance 
Committee
Total Number of meetings 20 5 9 5
Current Directors
John Kennedy
1
20 0 2 5
James Moffat
2
16 n/a n/a n/a
Joanne Curin
3
1 n/a n/a n/a
Peter Whitbread 20 n/a n/a n/a
Michael Press
4
11 3 7 n/a
Ellis Armstrong
4
12 3 n/a 3
John Malcolm
4
13 n/a 7 3
Former Directors
Jonathan Silver
5
6 n/a n/a 2
Colin Goodall
5
6 2 2 2
Deena Mattar
5
6 2 2 2
Frank Nelson
6
14 n/a n/a n/a
1 John Kennedy was a member of the Audit Committee until 27 May 2013, prior to which date there were only two Committee meetings in 2013.
2 James Moffat joined the Board on 19 March 2013.
3 Joanne Curin joined the Board on 1 October 2013.
4 Michael Press, John Malcolm and Ellis Armstrong joined on 27 May 2013.
5 Jonathan Silver, Deena Mattar and Colin Goodall retired on 27 May 2013.
6 Frank Nelson joined the Board on 21 March 2013 and then left the Board with effect from 31 October 2013. 42 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Board appointments, induction and development
Appointments to the Board are ordinarily made after a formal, 
rigorous and transparent process under the supervision of and 
based on the recommendation of the Nomination & Governance 
Committee to the Board. The composition and activities of the 
Committee are explained at page 39. The Company makes the 
terms and conditions of appointment of the NEDs available for 
inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal 
business hours and also at the Company’s AGM 15 minutes prior to 
the meeting and during the meeting.
All new Directors are provided with formal induction to the 
Company upon their appointment. The programme is designed to 
cover Companies Act requirements, dealing restrictions as outlined 
in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Model Code on 
Directors’ dealings in securities contained in the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom, Board and 
business related matters, meetings with senior management and 
other key stakeholders including the Company’s major shareholder. 
In addition, in May 2013, the new independent NEDs were able to 
benefit from a full-day handover session with the out-going NEDs.
The Company is in the process of developing a “culture of 
continuous improvement” and as part of that Directors are 
encouraged to refresh their knowledge and skills and to keep 
up-to-date with the latest developments in corporate governance, 
financial reporting, the energy construction industry and wider 
market conditions. Further, as can be seen above at page 41, there 
are regular presentations on key topics at every formal Board 
meeting and these include briefings on legislative and regulatory 
developments. The Audit & Risk Committee receives briefings from 
the external auditors on any new accounting requirements or 
developments. However, as a general principle, given the experience 
and skills of its Directors, identification of other training needs is 
best left to individual discretion.
Retirement and re-election of Directors
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all 
Directors are subject to re-election at the first AGM after their 
appointment and one third, or the number nearest to one third of 
the Board, shall retire from office at every AGM. Any Director who 
has been in office for more than three years at the start of an AGM 
shall also retire. Accordingly, Michael Press, John Malcolm, Ellis 
Armstrong, Joanne Curin and Peter Whitbread will retire and will 
offer themselves for reappointment at the Company’s 2014 AGM. 
As a “smaller company”, the Company is not required to comply 
with section B.7.1 of the Code and the Board considers that this is 
appropriate in light of the fact that all of the Directors have been 
appointed recently.
Board processes
The agenda for each Board and Committee meeting is considered 
by the relevant Chairman or Committee Chairman and the papers 
for each meeting are distributed by the Secretary to the Board or 
members beforehand. As a standard agenda item during the 
scheduled Board meetings in person, the Chairman and NEDs meet 
without the executives present. The Chairman maintains regular 
contact with both the Executive Directors and with the NEDs, 
outside of Board meetings or calls, in order to discuss specific issues.
In further recognition of the need for continuous improvement, the 
Chairman instigated greater structure around Board proceedings, 
including standard meeting agendas, the use of electronic papers 
and modular presentations by management on a range of topics on 
a rotating basis, giving the Board greater visibility on key areas for 
the business. The use of electronic papers for all Board and 
Committee meetings is aimed at improving overall efficiencies and 
reducing the environmental impact of unnecessary paper 
consumption. It is envisaged that this will be extended through 
the Group’s governance structures to the executive committee 
in early 2014.
Performance evaluation process
The Board instituted its annual performance evaluation process 
notwithstanding the considerable changes at the Board level, having 
determined that the process would still provide valuable feedback. 
Each of the Directors completed a detailed questionnaire evaluating 
the performance of the Chairman, the Board, each of the principal 
Board Committees and each of the individual Directors. The SID did 
not meet without the Chairman present to review the performance 
of the Chairman but the Chairman’s performance was reviewed as 
part of the evaluation process. Certain key executives that have 
regular interaction with either the Board or the Board Committees 
were also invited to complete similar questionnaires. 
The results from the questionnaires (and comments provided) were 
collated independently by the Company Secretary and summarised on 
an aggregated basis. The Chairman of the Nomination & Governance 
Committee then presented a summary of the results to the Board 
and specific feedback was noted for enhanced performance.
The Nomination & Governance Committee plans to refine the 
performance evaluation process for 2014 with a review of the 
documentation and possible involvement of external parties for  
independent feedback.
Remuneration of Directors
The principles and details of Directors’ remuneration, as well as the 
composition and working of the Remuneration Committee, are 
contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 61.
Insurance
The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 
cover, the level of which is reviewed annually by the Board and is 
determined to be appropriate in the circumstances.
Board support
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board, is available  
to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures and provides 
general support and advice. He ensures that the Board is kept 
properly informed and is consulted on all matters reserved to it,  
and that written materials and other information are delivered in  
a timely fashion.
The Directors are also entitled to take independent professional 
advice, at the Company’s expense, if required.
Corporate Governance Report continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43
Key Committee activities during 2013
The Audit & Risk Committee met five times during the year and the 
attendance at its meetings is reported on page 41.
The Committee’s main activities during 2013 were as follows:
• The financial statements for the Group, both for the financial 
year 2012 as well as 1H 2013
• Review of the risks relating to the Group and the risk 
management process 
• Review of the internal audit reports, outstanding action points 
and the 2014 plan
• External auditor’s independence, objectivity and the 
effectiveness, as well as the auditor’s forthcoming activities
• Ongoing assessment of the control environment and systems and 
specifically the improvements to the systems and controls (some 
of which were noted in the Company’s Annual Report for 2012)
• Anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures for the 
business
Key judgements
The two significant issues considered in relation to the financial 
statements are as follows:
• The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill and 
the assumptions underlying the impairment review. The 
judgements in relation to goodwill largely relate to the 
assumptions underlying the calculations of the value in the 
business and the integrated nature of the business as a whole. 
This area is a key area of focus for the external auditor and its 
reporting obligations to the Committee.
• The Committee considered the appropriateness of revenue 
recognition and estimated cost to complete on major projects 
ongoing at the balance sheet date. The Committee satisfied itself 
that the Company’s financial statements had been prepared on 
the basis of the accounting policy and noted that the external 
auditors had audited the methodology on that basis.
The Committee was satisfied that the judgements made by 
management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have 
been included in the accounts.
Composition and other attendees
The Committee is comprised of members that are considered to be 
wholly independent (for the purposes of and within the definition of 
the Code). The Company’s auditors (both internal and external) are 
invited to attend certain meetings. On occasion other Board 
members have attended and the CFO is regularly invited to attend 
meetings, although at least once a year the Committee meets with 
both the Company’s external and internal auditors without any 
members of management being present.
Ellis Armstrong
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Audit & Risk Committee
The Committee has expanded its remit in light of 
the need for more direct oversight by the Board 
into the Company’s risk management processes 
Audit & Risk Committee report
Membership for the Audit & Risk Committee is detailed on page 39. 
The Committee is chaired by Ellis Armstrong, who took over the 
chairmanship from Deena Mattar in May 2013.
Role and remit
In 2013, the Board decided to expand the remit of Committee in 
light of the need for more direct oversight by the Board into the 
Company’s risk management processes. Accordingly, the name and 
the terms of reference for the Committee were amended to reflect 
this extended role.
The Committee’s main roles and responsibilities are as follows:
• Monitor the integrity of the Company’s annual and interim 
reports, preliminary results announcements and any other formal 
announcement relating to its financial performance
• Review and challenge all financial reporting matters
• Review the Company’s risk management system and internal 
control system, and the Company’s annual statement on risk and 
internal control systems
• Consideration of matters relating to the appointment and 
activities of the Company’s external auditors as well as the 
independence of the Company’s auditors
• Consideration of matters relating to the charter, resourcing and 
reporting of the Company’s internal auditors, as well as the 
annual plan for the internal auditors
• Review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal 
controls
• Monitoring the procedure to ensure that employees may raise 
ethical concerns in confidence
• Review the Group’s key enterprise-wide policies and procedures 
for preventing and detecting fraud and bribery, its code of 
business conduct and compliance with legal requirements 44 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
External auditors – activities
PwC acted as the Company’s external auditors throughout the year 
and provided the Committee with relevant reports, reviews and 
information and the Committee adjudged that they remained 
effective. The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external 
audit process by seeking feedback both from the external auditors 
themselves and from the CFO and VP Finance. In making the 
assessment, the Committee had due regard to their expertise, 
resourcing and independence. The effectiveness of the external 
auditors is also apparent through the challenges that they present to 
the views and positions of management. The Committee remains 
satisfied of PwC’s effectiveness. 
The Board notes that, as from October 2012, the Code recommends 
the external audit be put to tender every 10 years. PwC was 
originally appointed as the Group’s auditors on engagement since 
the Company’s IPO in 2006. However, in March 2010, the Company 
issued a competitive tender for the provision of external audit 
services and, following that tender process, PwC was awarded a 
further letter of engagement to provide such services to the Group. 
Accordingly, given the relatively limited passage of time since the 
last tender, the Committee does not intend to tender the 
engagement at this time but will continue to monitor the 
relationship and matter in line with best practices. 
External auditors – independence
The Group has previously adopted a Policy on Auditor Independence 
(which is available on the Company’s website) and has considered 
the activities of PwC and in particular the levels and types of 
non-audit services. In accordance with UK regulations, PwC adheres 
to a partner rotation policy based on best practices which the 
Committee considers to be an important part of the ability of PwC 
to remain independent and objective in its activities. In light of the 
above, the Committee is satisfied that the incumbent external 
auditor PwC remains fully independent, and accordingly has 
recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint PwC is 
proposed at the 2014 AGM. The Board concurs with the 
recommendation of the Committee.
The Committee has overall responsibility for ensuring that the 
external auditors’ independence and objectivity are not 
compromised. One of the key risks to this is the provision of 
non-audit services by the external auditor. During 2013, in addition 
to undertaking the external audit, PwC was also engaged to provide 
other advice including in connection with support for the Group’s 
corporate transactions. No other significant non-audit related 
services were provided during the financial year. Policies and review 
mechanisms both governing the provision of material non-audit 
services, and safeguarding the objectivity and independence of the 
external auditor, remained in force throughout the financial year. 
Corporate Governance Report continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45
Nomination & Governance Committee
With a keener focus from the investor community 
for effective corporate governance, Lamprell has 
implemented a number of positive developments 
in this area
Nomination & Governance Committee report
Membership for the Committee is detailed on page 39. The 
Committee is chaired by John Malcolm, who took over the 
chairmanship from John Kennedy in May 2013.
Role and remit
The role of Committee expanded during 2013 in light of discussions 
at the Board, which decided that the Committee could add value 
not only by reviewing the composition, size and structure of the 
Board but also by overseeing governance matters within the Group. 
Accordingly, the name and the terms of reference for the 
Committee were amended to reflect this.
The Committee’s main roles and responsibilities were as follows:
• Periodic review of the structure, size, composition, skills, 
knowledge, diversity and experience required of the Board
• Identify and nominate for approval any candidates to fill any 
vacancies on the Board
• Before appointment is made by the Board, to evaluate the 
balance of the Board and prepare a description of the role and 
capabilities required
• Review the leadership needs, both executive and non-executive, 
with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Company to 
compete effectively in the market place
• Consider succession planning, both for the Board and for senior 
management
• Recommend the members of the Audit & Risk and the 
Remuneration Committees
• Give due consideration to and advise the Board on compliance 
with laws and regulations, including the Code and the UK Listing 
Authority’s Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules
• Consider situational conflicts notified by Directors and to raise 
such conflicts to the Board
• Lead the annual process for evaluating the performances of each 
of the Board, the principal Board Committees and the individual 
Directors
Key Committee activities during 2013
The Nomination & Governance Committee met five times during the 
year and the attendance at its meetings is reported on page 41.
The Committee’s main activities during 2013 were as follows:
• Direct responsibility for the processes leading to the 
appointments of the three NEDs in May 2013 as well as the new 
CFO, Jo Curin, in October 2013
• Determining the “Qualifications Guidelines for Board Directors” 
following a formal, rigorous and transparent selection process, 
reducing long lists of candidates down to short lists, followed by 
interviews and nominations to the Board
• Playing a key role in directing the efforts by the various external 
consultants to find the new NEDs and the new CFO
Independence and external consultants
The Committee is comprised of members that are considered to be 
wholly independent (for the purposes of the Code) and, in light of 
feedback from specific shareholders, the Board changed the 
chairmanship of the Committee from John Kennedy to John 
Malcolm, one of the new independent NEDs. The Committee also 
makes use of the services of several executive recruitment 
consultants for its searches, both for candidates to fill Board 
vacancies but also for senior management appointments and, 
during the relevant period, the Committee has used Korn Ferry and 
Maxwell Drummond for such matters. 
Board diversity
The Company is aware of its responsibilities to diversify at the Board 
level. With this in mind, the Board was understandably disappointed 
that Deena Mattar decided to retire from the Board in May 2013. 
However, the Board was pleased to welcome Jo Curin as an 
Executive Director in October 2013, thereby demonstrating its 
ongoing commitment to diversity. The Committee actively 
considered a diverse range of applicants and continues to review 
candidates to fill vacancies on the Board; an important consideration 
has been and will continue to be the determination to achieve 
greater diversity. 
John Malcolm
Chairman of the Nomination & 
Governance Committee 46 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Committee report
Membership for the Remuneration Committee is detailed on page 
39. The Committee is chaired by Michael Press, who took over the 
chairmanship from Colin Goodall in May 2013.
Role, remit and key activities
The primary function of the Committee is to determine and agree 
with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration 
of the Company’s Executive Directors and designated members of 
its senior management team, as well as remuneration policy for the 
Group as a whole. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors 
is a matter for the Chairman and the Executive Directors. No 
Director or manager may be involved in any decisions as to his own 
remuneration. The terms of reference for the Committee were 
reviewed and revised during the year to reflect this role.
The Remuneration Committee met (including various meetings by 
conference calls) nine times during the year and the attendance at 
its meetings is reported on page 41. Details of the Committee’s 
main activities during the year can be found in the Director’s 
Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 61.
Other Board Committees
The Board and the principal Board Committees may also delegate 
authority from time to time to an ad hoc sub-committee or task 
force, as may be required to review or manage a specific matter. The 
Board or relevant Board Committee will determine the terms of 
reference, membership and processes of such sub-committee or 
task force, as necessary.
Executive Committee
2013 was the first full year for the re-constituted Executive 
Committee (“ExCom”) to contribute to leading the day-to-day 
business of the Group. The ExCom met regularly to discuss and 
make decisions on critical strategic, operational and financial 
matters (including the review of major risks facing the Group) 
relating to management of the business, prior to making 
recommendations to the Board or a principal Board Committee. It 
meets at least once per month and comprises certain members of 
the executive management team lead by the CEO.
Conflicts of interest
The Board has procedures in place for the disclosure of conflicts of 
interest. Prior to appointment, director-elects provide information 
on any conflicts of interest by means of a questionnaire, and 
thereafter potential conflicts are considered during each Board 
meeting as they arise. 
Potential conflicts of interest
Name Title Conflict
John Kennedy Chairman and Director  
of Maxwell Drummond
Company uses them for 
some recruitment searches
John Malcolm Director of Oman Oil  
Exploration & Production
Company views a 
company related to this 
entity as a potential client
In each case, the Board considered the declared interest and 
determined that no conflict was present and that none of the above 
instances impedes the Board’s decision-making processes. Each 
Director is aware of his or her duties to avoid a situation where he or 
she has a potential actual conflict of interest, the requirement to keep 
the same under review and to inform the Chairman and the Company 
Secretary of any change in circumstances, which are duly minuted. 
Securities dealing policies and codes
Details of the shares and interests held by the Directors are set out 
on page 59. Lamprell has a Share Dealing Code that applies to all 
Directors and persons discharging managerial responsibility, as well 
as an Insider Dealing and Market Abuse Policy which applies to all 
employees. Under the Share Dealing Code, Directors are required to 
obtain clearance from the Chairman and CEO before dealing in 
Lamprell’s securities. Directors and persons discharging managerial 
responsibility are prohibited from dealing in Lamprell’s securities during 
designated prohibited periods and at any time at which any individual 
employee is in possession of inside information (as defined in the 
relevant legislation). This policy adopts the terms of the Model Code, 
as set out in the Listing Rules published by the UK Listing Authority.
Statement of compliance with the Code
The Company is incorporated in the Isle of Man and has a Premium 
Listing on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange. The Board 
believes high standards of corporate governance are integral to the 
delivery of the Group strategy and so the Board maintains a strong 
commitment to achieving the highest standards of corporate 
governance with the application of the provisions of the Code to the 
business. The Company aims to comply with the provisions of the 
Code and details on how we have applied the principles of the Code 
to our activities (as well as any exceptions to the Code) are set out 
and explained above in this Corporate Governance Report, in the 
Directors’ Report on pages 36 to 38 and/or in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 61. 
A copy of the Code is available on the website of the Financial 
Reporting Council at www.frc.org.uk.
UK Bribery Act 2010
The UK Bribery Act 2010 came into effect in July 2011 and Lamprell 
has implemented a suite of anti-bribery and corruption policies and 
procedures that it considers to be appropriate in the circumstances 
to ensure that all employees are aware that compliance with the law 
is of paramount importance to the Company. This forms part of the 
overall code of business conduct for the Lamprell employees and we 
expect and require all such employees to maintain the highest 
standards of ethics and compliance with the anti-bribery laws of the 
country in which they are operating. As part of this programme, all 
managers as well as employees in sensitive positions undergo 
regular and detailed anti-bribery training which comprises 
attendance at a training session, completion of an online e-learning 
module and annual certification of compliance.
Financial reporting
The statement on the responsibilities of the Directors in relation to 
the preparation of the accounts and the Directors’ evaluation of the 
business as a going concern is contained in the Directors’ Report on 
pages 36 to 38.
The Directors as at the date of this report consider that the Annual 
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
Corporate Governance Report continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47
Risk management and internal controls
The primary responsibility for developing and implementing internal 
control and risk management procedures covering all aspects of  
the business lies with the executive management team. As part  
of the improved reporting processes, the Board regularly receives 
comprehensive written reports covering all such aspects from the CEO 
and the CFO at each Board meeting in person. In addition, the Board 
plays a direct role in the development of the Group’s internal controls 
and risk management systems in addition to overseeing controls and 
risk management procedures via the Audit & Risk Committee.
Individual managers are responsible for ensuring compliance within 
their departments which includes the identification, evaluation and 
mitigation of risks within their areas of responsibility. The application 
and consistency of these policies and procedures are regularly 
reviewed by the Group’s Internal Audit function, and are then 
overseen and reported to the Audit & Risk Committee, which is 
ultimately responsible for reporting on the same to the Board.
In its 2012 Annual Report, the Company highlighted example 
initiatives that had been implemented to enhance internal controls 
and the risk management environment within the business. In 
addition and as part of creating the culture of continuous 
improvement, the new management team has implemented further 
control and risk management activities during 2013, including:
• The Group launched the initial phase of its new ERP system, 
which replaced the previous financial system and which is 
expected to generate performance efficiencies for the Group and 
also improve governance processes, data integrity and security at 
corporate and project levels.
• A revised whistleblowing policy was issued and the use of a 
confidential whistleblowing hotline through an external service 
provider was made available across the Group.
• Corporate key performance indicators were instigated and duly 
published across the organisation, and were regularly monitored 
and updated. This provided improved reporting on certain 
indicators for the health of the business.
• As part of the risk management processes, the Group has started 
to implement a six-monthly, top-down risk review system where 
key risks and opportunities in the business and its operations are 
identified, aggregated and then presented to the Audit & Risk 
Committee for review. 
The Board (through the Audit & Risk Committee) conducts an 
annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control 
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management systems. Where significant weaknesses have been 
identified, additional safeguards have been, and are being, 
implemented and monitored. Future reviews of the systems’ 
effectiveness will take into account any new controls and processes 
that are implemented subsequently.
Additional information on the principal risks and uncertainties faced 
by the Group, together with the mitigating factors, can be found on 
pages 26 to 29.
Internal audit and assurance
Lamprell has an established internal audit function within the 
organisation and the Audit & Risk Committee approves the planned 
activities for internal audit during the subsequent year. Internal audit 
will, as part of its processes, follow best practices and seek input 
from auditee members of the management team before making 
recommendations and/or observations to the Audit & Risk 
Committee. On a bi-annual basis, internal audit will present the 
results from its audits to the Committee which will evaluate the 
results and make such recommendations, as required. 
The Directors receive assurances from the results of auditing by 
internal audit and the control self-assessment that is also undertaken 
by managers and overseen by internal audit each year. A particular 
focus during 2013 was the close-out of legacy action items and 
outstanding observations from previous audit cycles, which has seen 
a very high success rate because of such focus and cooperation 
between the internal audit function and the auditees.
Memorandum and Articles of Association
The Company’s Memorandum of Association sets out the objectives 
and powers of the Company. The Articles of Association details the 
rights attaching to each share class, the method by which the 
Company’s shares can be purchased or re-issued and the provisions 
which apply to the holding or and voting at general meetings. The 
Articles also set out the rules relating to Directors (including by way 
of example, their appointment, retirement, duties and powers).
Communications with stakeholders
The Board represents the shareholders and is accountable to them 
for creating and delivering value through the effective governance 
of the business. Lamprell places considerable importance on 
developing its relationships with our shareholders and it aims to 
achieve this by way of the following regular communication activities:
• Press releases regarding Company’s business which have been 
issued throughout 2013
• Regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders, both 
directly and through the Company’s advisers
• Market announcements, corporate presentations and other 
Company information which are available on our website at 
www.lamprell.com
• The Annual Report issued to all registered shareholders, either in 
hard copy or electronically for those that have elected to receive 
it in that form
After the extraordinary events of 2012, there have been more 
regular meetings with the investor community, major shareholders 
and analysts during 2013. This included formal meetings with 
investors, analysts and media a various points throughout the year 
and in particular at the time of the full year and interim results. The 
Board receives regular feedback on the views of shareholders on the 
Company from its Chairman and the executive management team 
after meetings with the shareholders, as well as from reports from 
the Company’s corporate brokers. In addition, the Remuneration 
Committee has consulted key shareholders in relation to 
remuneration proposals prior to implementation to seek feedback 
and comment on the same. The Senior Independent Director is also 
generally available to meet with shareholders at their request.
In addition, the Company considers that its core lending group is 
another key stakeholder group for the business. The debt facility 
agreement concluded last year includes inter alia management and 
financial reporting requirements, specific debt covenants and 
security arrangements, and so the facility terms represent a 
fundamental part of the Group’s governance structure. 48 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Annual General Meetings
Lamprell encourages our shareholders to attend the AGM as an 
opportunity to raise concerns or points with Directors face-to-face. 
All Directors were present at the 2013 AGM and engaged in a 
constructive dialogue with attending shareholders. The Company 
distributed its notice of AGM only 17 working days prior to the 
AGM itself, contrary to the provisions of paragraph E.2.4 of the 
Code, while the Company concluded discussions with the new 
independent NEDs. The Company intends to comply with this 
requirement in relation to the 2014 AGM. 
All Directors are expected to be present at the 2014 AGM, which is 
scheduled to be held on 10 June 2014. Questions from shareholders 
relating to the strategy, performance and progress of the Company 
are welcomed at the AGM. The Notice of the AGM, and related 
papers containing the text of resolutions to be proposed at the 
AGM, and explanatory notes, where necessary, will be posted to the 
shareholders before the AGM. 
The total number of proxy votes lodged at the AGM on each 
resolution categorised as for, against, and votes withheld will be 
made available both at the meeting and subsequently on the 
Company’s website. Each separate issue will be presented as a 
separate resolution and the Chairmen of the principal Board 
Committees will be available to answer questions from shareholders.
Communications with employees
One of the key stakeholder groups for the Company is its internal 
community, that is to say its employee base, and it has been a key 
focus with the considerable change in the leadership team, both at 
the end of 2012 and then throughout 2013. The management team, 
and in particular the new CEO and CFO, distribute their time 
regularly between the Company’s three main facilities in the UAE.  
In addition, the CEO circulates a “Message from the CEO” with 
updates on key matters through the internal communication 
network. On a more personal level, the CEO makes regular 
presentations to employees at the facilities for long service awards 
and for recognition of safety achievements and records.
Documents available on Lamprell website
The following are available on the Lamprell website at www.
lamprell.com:
Corporate Governance Section:
• Biographies of the Company’s Directors
• Terms of reference of the Audit & Risk Committee
• Terms of reference of the Nomination & Governance Committee
• Terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee
• Policy on independence of external auditors
Investors Section:
• Financial and share price information
• News releases
• Annual and Interim Reports, Interim Management Statements
• The materials relating to previous general meetings
• Copies of presentations to analysts and investors
• Financial calendar, including the dates of the general meeting(s), 
presentations and results
• Frequently asked questions
• The Articles of Association of the Company
• Contact details for key advisers and analysts
For and on behalf of the Board
Alex Ridout
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance Report continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49
Annual statement
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
Performance and reward in 2013
As we expected following a disappointing year in 2012, 2013 
presented a number of challenges with regard to attracting and 
remunerating senior executives as we sought to return the Company 
to profitability and bring stability back to the organisation. James 
Moffat joined the Group as CEO on 1 March and the terms of his 
appointment were detailed in last year’s report. 
After an extensive search process, Joanne Curin was hired as CFO on 
1 October to replace Frank Nelson who left the Company to go back 
to the UK for personal reasons. Ms. Curin was hired from the UK 
and her remuneration package was structured to deliver a market 
competitive base salary combined with a significant level of 
performance-related incentives.
Significant improvements in performance against our targets (in 
particular, net profit, safety and overhead cost reduction) combined 
with strong personal performance in their first periods of service 
resulted in strong bonus payments to our two Executive Directors: 
99% of the bonus opportunity for the CEO and 91% for the CFO. In 
both cases, payments were adjusted pro-rata for service in the year 
(from 1 March for Mr. Moffat and 1 October for Ms. Curin).
 
Due to the Company being in a restricted period throughout 2013, 
the intended LTIP awards have not yet been made. It is intended to 
grant the 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards as soon as possible in 2014.
Remuneration policy for 2014
Following changes in the membership of the Remuneration 
Committee (and indeed the Board) during the year, we undertook 
an extensive review of our remuneration policy. The Committee was 
particularly mindful of the concerns expressed by shareholders last 
year which led to a significant vote against the remuneration report 
at the AGM. We were grateful to shareholders who took the time to 
provide detailed feedback and sought to act on their concerns 
wherever possible. Following this exercise, we believe we have 
addressed the majority of the concerns raised. Inevitably some 
changes will take longer than others, and there are aspects of our 
practice in the year where the Committee has been constrained – 
either contractually or practically – by existing arrangements. Where 
this has been the case, we have sought to explain in this report how 
we plan to improve our policy going forward.
Our review of policy sets our approach for 2014 and beyond. The 
Executive Directors’ base salaries of USD 753,000 (for the CEO) and 
USD 545,000 (for the CFO) remain appropriate and therefore will 
not be increased for 2014. 
• The structure and quantum of the annual bonus continues to be 
appropriate and aligned to shareholders’ interests. 
• The long-term incentive grant policy was revised whereby an 
annual grant of performance shares under the LTIP will vest after 
three years subject to continued service and performance 
conditions based on relative total shareholder return (“TSR”), 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
cumulative EBITDA and end of period backlog targets to focus on 
the Group’s core markets and provide strong alignment between 
senior management and shareholders. The normal maximum 
award opportunity for the CEO was increased to 120% of base 
salary and a holding restriction of two years beyond vesting will 
be phased in during 2014 and 2015 for all Executive Directors. 
• Consistent with corporate governance guidelines, share ownership 
guidelines and clawback provisions were also introduced. 
The Committee is satisfied that the new remuneration policy will 
ensure that we can recruit and retain the right calibre of senior 
management to maximise shareholder value and deliver strong and 
sustainable growth. 
This report is split into two sections:
• The Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report, which sets out 
the forward looking Directors’ remuneration policy for the 
Company which will become effective from the 2014 AGM; and
• The Annual Report on Remuneration, which provides details 
of how the policy for 2014 will be operated and the 
remuneration earned by Directors in the year ended 31 
December 2013.
We will be seeking your support for each part of the report at the 
forthcoming AGM on 10 June 2014.
On behalf of the Committee I recommend this Remuneration Report 
to you and I hope that you will find it clear and informative. 
Michael Press
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
25 March 2014
Michael Press
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee 50 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report
Remuneration Policy Report
This part of the report sets out the remuneration policy for the 
Company and has been prepared in accordance with the Large  
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013. The policy has been developed 
taking into account the principles of the Code and the views of  
our major shareholders and describes the policy to be applied  
from 2014 onwards. The policy report will be put to a binding 
shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM and the policy will take formal 
effect from 10 June 2014. 
Policy overview
The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for 
establishing appropriate remuneration arrangements for the 
Executive Directors and other senior management in the Group.
Our remuneration policy aims to drive continuous improvements in 
business performance and maximise shareholder value by offering 
remuneration packages that are appropriately balanced and are 
designed to enable the recruitment, retention and motivation of 
talented Executive Directors and senior management.
In setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, the 
Committee considers the remuneration policy and levels of 
remuneration for the wider employee population, the policy and 
practice in the UAE and the wider market. The Committee will 
ensure that the arrangements are in the best interests of both the 
Group and its shareholders, by taking into account the following 
general principles:
• To attract, retain and motivate the best talent, without paying 
more than is necessary.
• To ensure total remuneration packages are simple and fair in 
design and valued by participants.
• To ensure that the fixed element of remuneration is determined 
in line with market rates, taking account of individual 
performance, responsibilities and experience; and that a 
significant proportion of the total remuneration package is linked 
to performance-related incentives.
• To balance performance pay between the achievement of 
financial performance objectives and delivering sustainable stock 
market out-performance; creating a clear line of sight between 
performance and reward and providing a focus on sustained 
improvements in profitability and returns.
• To calibrate carefully all performance metrics and associated 
sliding scale ranges to ensure that performance is incrementally 
rewarded through stretching targets and that executives are not 
inadvertently incentivised to take inappropriate business risks.
• To maintain the highest possible health and safety standards 
where any fatality that takes place in a facility operated by the 
Company or any of its subsidiaries may result in discretionary 
withdrawal of incentive eligibility.
• To provide a significant proportion of performance linked pay in 
shares allowing senior management to build significant 
shareholding in the business and therefore, aligning management 
with shareholders’ interests and the Group’s performance.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications 
with investors. The Committee considers the AGM to be an 
opportunity to meet and communicate with investors and considers 
shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and 
guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally. 
This feedback, together with any additional feedback received from 
time to time, is then considered as part of the Company’s annual 
review of remuneration policy. The Committee will also seek to 
engage directly with major shareholders and their representative 
bodies should any material changes be made to the Directors’ 
remuneration policy. The recent decision to amend the LTIP was 
communicated in advance to major shareholders and representative 
bodies during the first part of 2014. Details of the votes cast for and 
against the resolution to approve last year’s Directors’ Remuneration 
Report are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.  Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51
Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework
Base salary To attract, retain and 
motivate talented 
individuals who are critical 
to the Group’s success
Reviewed annually by the 
Committee or, if 
appropriate, in the event 
of a change in an 
individual’s position or 
responsibilities
Base salary levels set by 
reference to competitive 
market rates, taking into 
account level of 
responsibility, individual 
performance, skills and 
experience, Group 
performance and the pay 
and conditions in the 
workforce
There is no prescribed 
minimum or maximum 
annual increase. The 
Committee is guided by 
market position and the 
average increase for the 
workforce generally but 
on occasions may 
recognise an increase in 
certain circumstances such 
as, assumed additional 
responsibility, or an 
increase in the scale or 
scope of the role
Company performance 
appraisal process
Annual bonus To reward the 
achievement of the 
Group’s annual financial 
and non-financial 
objectives linked to the 
delivery of the Group’s 
strategic plan
Normally payable in cash
Performance targets are 
approved annually by the 
Committee
The Committee has 
discretion to override the 
formulaic outturn of the 
bonus and determine the 
appropriate level of bonus 
payable if it believes 
exceptional circumstances 
warrant it or, if it is 
deemed necessary based 
on safety, environmental, 
social and governance 
issues
Clawback provisions apply 
for overpayments due to 
misstatement or error and 
other circumstances
Maximum opportunity of 
100% of base salary for 
all Executive Directors
At least two thirds of the 
annual bonus will be 
based on Group financial 
performance or other key 
business metrics with the 
remainder dependent on 
the achievement of 
individual performance 
objectives to provide a 
rounded assessment of 
the Group and 
management’s 
performance
The financial metrics 
incorporate an appropriate 
sliding scale around a 
challenging target
1 A description of how the Company intends to implement the above policy is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration at pages 56 to 61.
Summary of the Directors’ remuneration policy
The following table sets out the key aspects of the Directors’ remuneration policy
1
. 52 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework
Long-Term Incentive 
Plan/LTIP
To balance performance 
pay between the 
achievement of strong 
financial performance and 
delivering sustainable 
stock market out-
performance
To encourage share 
ownership and alignment 
with shareholder interests
Annual awards of 
conditional shares or nil 
(or nominal cost) options 
(or possibly cash) with 
vesting dependent on the 
achievement of 
performance conditions 
over a three year period.
An additional mandatory 
holding period of two 
years will be phased in 
during 2014 and 2015 for 
vested awards (net of tax)
Performance targets and 
metrics are approved 
annually by the 
Committee
The Committee has 
discretion to scale back 
(potentially to zero) the 
vesting of any awards if it 
believes the results are not 
an accurate reflection of 
the Company’s underlying 
performance
Clawback provisions apply 
for overpayments due to 
misstatement or error and 
other circumstances 
Dividends that accrue 
during the vesting period 
may be paid in cash or 
shares at the time of 
vesting, to the extent that 
shares vest
Normal maximum 
opportunity of 120% of 
base salary for the CEO 
and 100% of base salary 
for other Executive 
Directors
1
Exceptional maximum 
opportunity of 150% of 
base salary
1
Performance is assessed 
against a challenging set 
of independent financial 
metrics that may include 
relative TSR, cumulative 
EBITDA, end of period 
backlog and other equally 
challenging metrics 
On each element, starting 
with the 2014 plan, 
between 0 and 20% of an 
award will vest for 
achieving threshold 
performance, increasing 
and vesting pro rata at a 
further target with full 
vesting for achievement of 
maximum stretch 
performance targets
End of service gratuity To offer executives a 
retirement benefit as 
required under the UAE 
Labour Law
The Company has no 
Group wide pension 
scheme
A lump sum cash payment 
is awarded following end 
of service, based on the 
length of service and final 
base salary in accordance 
with UAE Labour Law
Company contributions 
are limited to two years’ 
base salary by UAE Labour 
Law
None
Benefits and 
Allowances
To offer a market-
competitive level of 
benefits to ensure the 
Executive Directors’ 
well-being and provide 
additional allowances in 
line with local market 
practice
Current benefits include a 
housing allowance, private 
medical/life insurance, use 
of a company car and 
driver, fuel card, annual 
leave air fares and utility 
expenses
Actual value of benefits 
provided
None
1 Annual limits of the LTIP relate to awards in respect of the financial year and shall not prevent the Committee granting awards that relate to more than one financial year. 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53
Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework
Share ownership 
guidelines 
To further strengthen the 
long-term alignment 
between executives and 
shareholders 
Executive Directors are 
required to retain the net 
proceeds of vested share 
awards which vest under 
the Group’s discretionary 
share plans
Expected to achieve 150% 
of base salary for the CEO 
and 125% of base salary 
for the other Executive 
Directors within five years
None
NEDs’ fees Set to attract, retain and 
motivate talented 
individuals through the 
provision of market 
competitive fees
Reviewed periodically by 
the Executive Directors 
and Chairman (except for 
his own fee) or, if 
appropriate, in the event 
of a change in an 
individual’s position or 
responsibilities
Fee levels set by reference 
to market rates, taking 
into account the 
individual’s experience, 
responsibility, time and 
travel commitments
As for the Executive 
Directors there is no 
prescribed minimum or 
maximum annual increase. 
The Executive Directors 
and Chairman are guided 
by market position but on 
occasions may recognise 
an increase in certain 
circumstances such as, 
assumed additional 
responsibility or an 
increase in the scale or 
scope of the role 
None
Performance metric selection
The annual bonus is predominantly based on key financial performance indicators, to reflect how successful the Group has been in managing 
its operations. The balance is determined on performance against individually determined strategic objectives and annual operational targets, 
including HSE.
The LTIP performance measures reward significant long-term returns to shareholders and long-term financial growth. Targets take account of 
internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the Company and are set appropriate to the economic outlook and risk 
factors prevailing at the time, ensuring that such targets remain challenging in the circumstances, whilst remaining realistic enough to 
motivate and incentivise management. Only modest rewards are available for achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards 
requiring substantial out-performance of challenging strategic plans approved at the start of each year. 
Discretion
The Committee will operate the incentive plans in accordance with their respective rules, the UK Listing Rules and the HMRC rules where 
relevant. The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and 
administration of certain plan rules. These include (but are not limited to) the following: 
• Who participates; 
• The timing of the grant of award and/or payment;
• The size of an award (up to plan/policy limits) and/or a payment;
• The result indicated by the relative TSR performance condition may be scaled back (potentially to zero) in the event that the Committee 
considers that financial performance has been unsatisfactory and/or the outcome has been distorted due to the TSR for the Company or 
any comparator company being considered abnormal;
• Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction;
• Determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified categories) for incentive plan purposes and the treatment of leavers;
• Adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends); and
• The ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors’ remuneration policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments 
entered into with current or former Directors (including, the vesting or exercise of past share awards and the granting of awards promised to 
be made and disclosed to shareholders’ prior to the effective date of this policy). 54 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Maximum
On-target 56% 30% 14% USD 1,877,085
Minimum 100% USD 1,041,255
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Total Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Long-Term Incentive Plan
USD 0 USD 1,000 USD 2,000 USD 3,000
39% 28% 33% USD 2,697,855
Total remuneration (USD ‘000)
Maximum
On-target 61% 26% 13% USD 1,307,540
Minimum 100% USD 798,950
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
44% 26% 30% USD 1,802,575
USD 0 USD 500 USD 1,000 USD 1,500 USD 2,000
Total Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Long-Term Incentive Plan
Total remuneration (USD ‘000)
Directors’ recruitment and promotions
The Committee takes into account the need to attract, retain and 
motivate Executive Directors and senior managers of the highest 
calibre, while at the same time ensuring a close alignment between 
the interests of shareholders and management.
If a new Executive Director were appointed, the Committee would 
seek to align the remuneration package with the remuneration 
policy approved by shareholders, including discretion to award an 
annual bonus up to 100% of base salary and, in exceptional 
circumstances, an LTIP award up to 150% of base salary. Flexibility 
would be retained to set base salaries at the level necessary to 
facilitate the hiring of candidates of appropriate calibre in external 
markets and to make awards or payments in respect of deferred 
remuneration forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In terms of 
remuneration to compensate forfeited awards, the Committee 
would look to replicate the arrangements being forfeited as closely 
as possible and in doing so, would take account of relevant factors 
including the nature of the remuneration, performance conditions 
and the time over which they would have vested or been paid. 
In exceptional circumstances and only on recruitment (e.g. to buyout 
the value of awards forfeited) the Committee may also award share 
options of up to 150% of base salary under the ESOP. Options will 
vest dependent on the achievement of agreed performance and/or 
retention conditions over a three year period and will be exercisable 
up to the 10th anniversary of the date of grant. Dividends that 
accrue during the vesting period may be paid in cash or shares at 
the time of vesting, to the extent that the options become 
exercisable.
For an internal appointment, any incentive amount awarded in 
respect of a prior role may be allowed to vest on its original terms, 
or adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment. Any 
other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to 
appointment may continue.
The Committee may also agree that the Company will meet certain 
relocation and incidental expenses as appropriate.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or NED, the fee 
arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved 
remuneration policy at that time. 
Directors’ service agreements and payments for loss of office
The Committee reviews the contractual terms of the service 
agreements to ensure these reflect best practice.
The Group’s policy is that Executive Directors should be employed 
on a rolling term, with a notice period not exceeding 12 months  
and in the event of early termination, the Company will not make 
any payments beyond its contractual obligations.
The Executive Directors’ service agreements are terminable on  
12 months’ notice. In circumstances of termination on notice, the 
Committee will determine an equitable compensation package, 
having regard to the particular circumstances of the case. The 
Committee has discretion to require notice to be worked or to make 
payment in lieu of notice or to place the Director on garden leave 
for the notice period. In case of payment in lieu or garden leave, 
base salary, benefits and end of service gratuity will be paid for the 
period of notice served on garden leave or paid in lieu. If the 
Committee believes it would be in shareholders’ interests the 
Company may elect to make payments in three separate tranches; 
50% within seven working days of the termination date; 25% three 
months after the termination date; and 25% six months after the 
termination date.
Relative to pay and employment conditions in the Group 
The Committee takes account of remuneration levels offered to the 
senior management team in the Group as well as the awards 
affecting the wider employee population. When considering the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration structure and levels, the Committee 
reviews base salary and incentive arrangements for the management 
team, to ensure that there is a coherent approach across the Group. 
Employees may be eligible to participate in an annual bonus 
arrangement and receive awards under the LTIP, ESOP, RSP or FSP. 
Opportunities and performance metrics may vary by workforce level 
with specific business metrics incorporated where possible. 
While the Company sees communication among its employees as a 
key priority it does not formally consult with employees in respect of 
the design of the Executive Director remuneration policy, although 
the Committee will keep this under review. 
Remuneration scenarios for the Executive Directors 
The charts below show an estimate of the potential range of 
remuneration payable for the Executive Directors in 2014 at different 
levels of performance. The charts highlight that the performance-
related elements of the package comprise a significant portion of the 
Executive Director’s total remuneration at maximum performance. 
Assumptions:
1 Base salary levels applying on 1 January 2014.
2 Benefits are estimated, based on the annualised value for the year ended 31 
December 2013.
3 The end of service gratuity is estimated, based on the accrual for the year ended 31 
December 2013.
4 Minimum performance assumes no award is earned under the annual bonus plan 
and no vesting is achieved under the LTIP; at on-target, 75% of the maximum is 
earned under annual bonus plan and 30% vesting is achieved under the LTIP; and at 
maximum full vesting under both plans. 
5 As per the legislation, share price movement and dividend accrual have been 
excluded from the above analysis.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55
The annual bonus may be payable in respect of the period of the 
bonus plan year worked by the Director; there is no provision for  
an amount in lieu of bonus to be payable for any part of the notice 
period not worked. The bonus will be scaled back pro-rata for the 
period of the incentive year worked by the Director and will still be 
payable at the normal payment date.
Long-term incentives granted under the LTIP will be determined by 
the plan rules which contain discretionary good leaver provisions for 
designated reasons (i.e. participants who leave early on account of 
injury, disability or ill-health, a sale of their employer or business in 
which they were employed or any other reason at the discretion of 
the Committee). In these circumstances a participant’s awards will 
not be forfeited on cessation of employment and instead will vest 
on the normal vesting date. In exceptional circumstances, the 
Committee may decide that the participant’s award will vest early 
on the termination date. In either case, the extent to which the 
awards will vest depends on the extent to which the performance 
conditions have been satisfied and a pro-rata reduction of the 
awards will be applied by reference to the time of cessation 
(although the Committee has discretion to disapply performance 
conditions and time pro-rating if the circumstances warrant it). In 
the case of death of the participant, the award will vest at that time, 
irrespective of whether or not any performance conditions have 
been satisfied, and the award will not be time pro-rated.
In respect of legacy options outstanding under the ESOP, the 
options will be determined by the plan rules which contain 
discretionary good leaver provisions for designated reasons (i.e. 
participants who leave early on account of injury, disability or 
ill-health, a sale of their employer or business in which they were 
employed or any other reason at the discretion of the Board). In 
these circumstances a participant’s options will not be forfeited on 
cessation of employment but will vest on the termination date 
instead. The extent to which the options become exercisable 
depends, unless the Board determines otherwise, on the extent to 
which the performance conditions have been satisfied up until the 
termination date or such longer period as the Board may decide 
within six weeks of the grant date. The performance period will end 
on the termination date unless the Board determines otherwise. In 
the case of death of a participant, the option will become 
exercisable at that time, irrespective of whether or not any 
performance conditions have been satisfied, and the option will not 
be time pro rated.
In the event of a change of control all unvested awards under the 
long-term incentive arrangements would vest, to the extent that any 
performance conditions attached to the relevant awards have been 
achieved. The awards will, other than in exceptional circumstances, 
be scaled back pro-rata for the period of the incentive year worked 
by the Director (although the Committee has discretion to disapply 
performance conditions and time pro-rating if the circumstances 
warrant it).
The table below sets out the details of the Executive Directors’ 
service contracts:
Director Date of contract
James Moffat 25 November 2012
Joanne Curin 26 August 2013
The service contracts are available for inspection during normal 
business hours at the Company’s registered office, and available for 
inspection at the AGM.
Non-Executive Directors’ terms of engagement
The NEDs do not have service contracts and instead are appointed 
by letters of appointment for an initial term of three years, which 
are terminable by three months’ notice on either side. At the end of 
the initial period the appointment may be renewed by mutual 
consent for an additional three-year term, subject to re-election at 
the AGM.
Upon termination or resignation, NEDs are not entitled to 
compensation and no fee is payable in respect of the unexpired 
portion of the term of appointment.
Currently, three NEDs (excluding the Chairman who was 
independent on appointment) are considered to be independent of 
the Company. 
The following table shows the effective date of appointment for 
each NED:
Non-Executive Director Date of appointment
John Kennedy 15 June 2012
Peter Whitbread 1 July 2013 
Michael Press
1
27 May 2013
John Malcolm
1
27 May 2013
Ellis Armstrong
1
27 May 2013
1 Michael Press, John Malcolm and Ellis Armstrong are considered to be independent 
NEDs of the Company. 56 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Annual Report on Remuneration
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 
of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 and 9.8.6R of the UK’s 
Listing Rules. The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an 
advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM. The information on 
pages 58 to 59 has been audited.
Responsibilities of the Committee
The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the 
Board the policy on Executive Directors’ remuneration, including 
setting the over-arching principles, parameters and governance 
framework and determining the initial remuneration package of 
each Executive Director. In addition, the Committee monitors the 
structure and level of remuneration for the senior management 
team and is aware of pay and conditions in the workforce generally. 
The Committee also ensures full compliance with the Code in 
relation to remuneration. The Committee’s terms of reference are 
available for review on the Company’s website.
Members and activities of the Committee
The members of the Committee during the financial year were, from 
27 May 2013, Michael Press (Chair) and John Malcolm and, prior to 
27 May 2013, Colin Goodall (Chair), Deena Mattar and John 
Kennedy. All members were NEDs. None of the current Committee 
members have day-to-day involvement with the business nor do 
they have any personal financial interest in the matters to be 
recommended. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the 
Committee and the Vice-President, Human Resources and 
Administration attends meetings on a regular basis to provide 
related support. The number of formal meetings held and the 
attendance by each member is shown in the table below. The 
Committee also held informal discussions as required. 
Number of meetings attended 
out of a potential maximum
Michael Press 7 out of 7
John Malcolm 7 out of 7
Colin Goodall 2 out of 2
Deena Mattar 2 out of 2
John Kennedy 2 out of 2
External advice received
During the year, the Committee received independent advice on 
remuneration matters from Mercer until 30 September 2013 and 
from New Bridge Street (“NBS”), a trading name of Aon plc, from  
1 October 2013. Neither Mercer nor NBS provided other services  
to the Group during the year under review. The Committee also 
consulted with the CEO but not in relation to his own remuneration.
Mercer and NBS are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants’ 
Code of Conduct and adhere to the Voluntary Code of Conduct  
in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The 
Committee has reviewed the operating processes in place at NBS and  
is satisfied that the advice it receives is objective and independent.
The fees paid to Mercer during the year were £22,867 and the fees 
paid to NBS during the year were £38,900.
Shareholder voting at AGM
At last year’s AGM held on 27 May 2013, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report received the following votes from shareholders:
Total number 
of votes % of votes cast
For 139,286,278 75.3%
Against 45,674,416 24.7%
Total votes cast (for and against) 184,960,694 100%
Votes withheld¹ 3,295,764 –
Total votes cast (including withheld 
votes) 188,256,458 –
1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the 
proportion of votes cast ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a resolution.
2  During 2013, the Committee conducted a review of the Company’s remuneration 
policy, which took into account feedback from the 2013 AGM. A new policy was 
developed, which sought to address these concerns and this was shared informally 
with major shareholders and governance bodies in late 2013. The majority of those 
consulted indicated their support, although a few did not respond. One governance 
group reverted with several suggestions for further revisions and the Committee 
incorporated most of these suggestions into the final Policy which is set out in the 
above Policy Report.
Implementation of the remuneration policy for 2014
Base salary
In setting the base salaries for 2014, the Committee considered 
external market data, the increase in base salary for the senior 
management team and the workforce generally, where the average 
increases across the Group will be 4%. This increase will not apply 
to the CEO and CFO and accordingly the base salaries for 2014 will 
be as follows:
Base salary from  
1 January 2014 
Base salary from 
1 January 2013 or 
start date if later
% 
increase
James Moffat
1
USD 753,000 USD 753,000 0%
Joanne Curin
2
USD 545,000 USD 545,000 0%
1 James Moffat was appointed CEO on 1 March 2013. 
2 Joanne Curin was appointed CFO on 1 October 2013. 
Annual bonus for 2014
For 2014 the annual bonus opportunity will be 100% of base salary 
for the CEO and 85% of base salary for the CFO. 50% of the bonus 
will be based on net profit, 25% will be based on sales set in relation to 
the Group’s budget and the remaining 25% will be based on non-
financial, strategic and/or personal targets, including safety performance 
and overhead cost reduction. This structure is intended to provide a 
rounded assessment of the Group and management’s performance. 
The sales targets will be within a range from USD 960 million to 
USD 1.3 billion with associated pay-outs within the range of 
20-100% of target. The Committee considers any disclosure of 
future net profits to be commercially sensitive, however, full 
retrospective disclosure of targets and performance against them 
will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Clawback provisions will apply.
Long-term incentives to be granted in 2014
Due to the prolonged close period throughout 2013, it was not possible 
to make any LTIP awards to the Directors. Subject to compliance 
with the Listing Rules, awards will therefore be made in 2014 under 
both the 2013 and the 2014 plans. The maximum LTIP potential will 
be 120% of base salary for the CEO and 100% of base salary for 
the CFO. For the 2013 plan, following a review of the plan metrics 
by the previous Committee, awards will vest based on performance 
against three years’ cumulative EBITDA at 31 December 2015. 
For the LTIP award to be granted in 2014, after further review of the 
plan metrics by the present Committee, 50% of the award will be 
Directors’ Annual Report on Remuneration Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57
based on relative TSR (relative to the FTSE World Oil Equipment and 
Services Index), 25% on cumulative EBITDA and 25% on end of 
period backlog.
Relative TSR, cumulative EBITDA and end of period backlog are 
considered to be the most appropriate measures of long-term 
performance for the Group, in that they ensure the Executive 
Directors are incentivised and rewarded for the financial performance 
of the Group as well as returning value to shareholders. 
LTIP 2013
Threshold Maximum
Performance 
condition
%  
vesting Performance
%  
vesting Performance
End measurement 
point
Cumulative 
EBITDA 80
90% of 
target 100
100%  
of target
31 December 
2015 
LTIP 2014
Threshold Maximum
Performance 
condition
% 
vesting Performance
% 
vesting Performance
End measurement 
point
TSR vs. FTSE 
World Oil 
Equipment & 
Services Index 0 Median 100
Upper 
quintile
31 December 
2016
Cumulative 
EBITDA 20
USD 240 
million 100
USD 360 
milion
31 December 
2016 
End of period 
backlog 20
USD 1.0 
billion 100
USD 1.4 
billion
31 December 
2016
The awards will be subject to clawback provisions. 
A mandatory holding restriction of two years beyond vesting will be 
phased in during 2014 and 2015. 
End of service gratuity
As required under the UAE Labour Law, the Company contributes to 
the end of service gratuity fund on behalf of the Executive Directors, 
whereby the gratuity shall be 21 days’ base salary for each year of 
the first five years of employment and 30 days’ base salary for each 
additional year of employment thereafter, on the condition that the 
total gratuity does not exceed two years’ base salary, payable upon 
termination of employment.
Historical recruitment awards for Interim Executives
As reported last year, the Company agreed to grant each of Peter 
Whitbread and Frank Nelson an option over shares to the value of 
GBP 400,000 and GBP 195,000 respectively (the “Intended Options”). 
These grants were agreed to be made at an exercise price of 76.25 
pence (in respect of Mr. Whitbread) and 80.50 pence (in respect of  
Mr. Nelson). 
The Company was unable to grant the Intended Options due to a 
prolonged restricted period. In light of this, the Company negotiated 
a settlement on 15 May 2013 in which the interim executives 
surrendered their stock options in exchange for a cash payment 
based upon the movement in share price between the date they 
became Directors and 15 April 2013. Mr. Nelson was paid £155,000 
and Mr. Whitbread was paid £360,000.
In addition, Peter Whitbread’s service contract included a  
Retention Incentive equivalent to 25% of the base salary earned 
during the period from 5 October 2012 to 31 March 2013 in lieu of 
Mr. Whitbread’s participation in any other short-term or long-term 
incentive plans and to recognise the criticality of retaining him as 
interim CEO during a particularly turbulent period for the Company. 
Mr. Whitbread was paid USD 157,000 in April 2013.
Mr. Nelson’s service contract also included a Retention Incentive 
equivalent to 50% of his annual base salary in lieu of Mr. Nelson’s 
participation in any other short-term or long-term incentive plan and 
to recognise the importance of retaining the interim CFO during a 
critical period for the Company following the disappointing results  
in 2012 and the ensuing priorities with regards the Company’s 
banking and credit facilities and business recovery. Mr. Nelson was 
paid GBP 162,945 in two instalments in June and October 2013.
Recruitment award for incoming CEO, James Moffat
As reported last year, under the terms of his employment offer, the 
Company agreed to grant Mr Moffat an option over shares with a 
value of USD 753,000 at an exercise price equal to the share price 
on 1 March 2013 (the date on which the grant was originally 
intended to be made). The option was to be granted as soon as the 
Company was no longer within a restricted period. Furthermore, the 
Committee had agreed that, if the Company were unable to grant 
the award by 21 March 2014 (known as the “Long Stop Date”), it 
would pay Mr Moffat a cash sum in lieu of the award, equal to the 
amount by which the options award would have gained in value 
between 1 March 2013 and the Long Stop Date.
 
In reviewing this arrangement prior to the Long Stop Date, the 
Committee considered that it would be in the Company’s best 
interests if the award (which has a three-year vesting term) were to 
remain in place rather than being cashed out; this would increase 
both retention and alignment. However, we were also mindful of 
feedback from investors who would have preferred the options to 
have been subject to performance conditions. Accordingly, the 
Committee determined, with the agreement of the CEO, that the 
promise to grant this award of options would stand but that the 
grant (when made) would be subject to a performance condition 
based on the Company’s relative total shareholder return relative to 
the FTSE World Oil Equipment & Services Index. The performance 
condition will be tested over the 36-month period up to 1 March 
2016 and the level of vesting will be calculated on the same basis as 
we have adopted for the 2014 LTIP which is detailed above.
Chairman’s remuneration
In recognition of the exceptional circumstances, whereby all three of 
the former Executive Directors had to be replaced and the existing 
NEDs (excluding the Chairman) each stood down during a period in 
which the Company was restructuring its financing and recovering 
from poor trading results in 2012, the Committee agreed that some 
form of additional compensation was appropriate to recognise the 
increased commitments required by the Chairman during 2012 and 
throughout 2013 and in recognition of the need to re-establish 
longer-term stability within the Company.
It was therefore agreed that an award of restricted stock would be 
made to the value of the Chairman’s annual fee (GBP 180,000), 
without performance conditions, to preserve the independent nature 
of the Chairman’s position, but subject to a vesting period of three 
years from date of grant under the terms of the Company’s RSP.
In view of the prolonged close period this award has not yet been made.
Outside appointments
The Board allows Executive Directors to accept appropriate outside 
commercial NED appointments provided the aggregate commitment 
is compatible with their duties and does not cause a conflict of 
interest as Executive Directors. Such Executive Directors may retain 
fees paid for these services, which will be subject to approval by the 
Board. During the year Joanne Curin served as a NED on the Boards 
of W.S. Atkins plc and Deep Ocean Group Holding BV. Frank Nelson 
served as a NED on the Board of Thames Valley Housing Association. 58 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman’s remuneration is determined by the Committee and the NEDs’ remuneration is determined by the Executive Directors and the 
Chairman, all of which is based on the responsibility and time committed to the Group’s affairs and appropriate market comparisons. 
Individual NEDs do not take part in discussions regarding their own fees. The Chairman and NEDs receive no other benefits. A summary of 
the current fees are as follows:
Fee at 
1 January 
2014 
GBP 000
Fee at 
1 January
 2013 
GBP 000
% 
increase
1
Non-Executive Chairman 180 180 0
Deputy Chairman 88 88 0
Senior Independent Director 80 80 0
Base fee 65 65 0
Committee Chair fee 8 8 0
1 Subject to review on 1 July 2014.
Directors’ remuneration earned in 2013 
The table below summarises Directors’ remuneration received in 2013 with comparisons, where appropriate, to 2012.
1
 
Base salary 
and fees 
USD’000
Benefits and 
Allowances
2 
USD’000
End of Service 
Gratuity
3 
USD’000
Annual Bonus
4 
USD’000
Long-Term 
Incentives 
USD’000
Other 
US’000
Total 
Remuneration 
USD’000
Executive Directors
James Moffat
5
2013 628 156 40 620 – 208
6
1,652
2012 – – – – – – –
Joanne Curin
7
2013 136 43 28 105 – – 312
2012 – – – – – – –
Peter Whitbread
8,11
2013 655 125 – – – 724
9
1,504
2012 310 42 – – – – 352
Frank Nelson
10
2013 417 305 32 – – 507
9
1,261
2012 86 74 – – – – 160
Non-Executive Directors
John Kennedy 2013 290 – – – – – 290
2012 145 – – – – – 145
Jonathan Silver
11
2013 58 – – – – – 58
2012 264 – – – – – 264
Colin Goodall
11
2013 58 – – – – – 58
2012 137 – – – – – 137
Deena Mattar
11,12
2013 88 – – – – – 88
2012 58 – – – – – 58
Michael Press
11
2013 82 – – – – – 82
2012 – – – – – – –
John Malcolm
11
2013 70 – – – – – 70
2012 – – – – – – –
Ellis Armstrong
11
2012 68 – – – – – 68
2012 – – – – – – –
Peter Whitbread
11
2013 52 – – – – – 52
2012 – – – – – – –
1 All Directors’ pay is reported above in USD. James Moffat’s remuneration is determined and paid in USD; Joanne Curin’s remuneration is determined in GBP and paid in AED; Michael 
Press and Ellis Armstrong’s remuneration is determined in GBP and paid in USD and the remuneration of John Kennedy, Peter Whitbread (as a NED) and John Malcolm is determined and 
paid in GBP. 
2  Benefits and allowances include housing, private medical insurance, life insurance, club membership, the use of a company car and driver, private fuel card, airfare tickets and utility 
expenses.
3  End of service gratuity is the provision accrued during the year. In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19, the present value of directors’ end of service gratuity obligations under UAE 
Labour Law have been valued using the projected unit credit method, as at 31 December 2013 and 2012. Under this method an assessment has been made of a director’s expected 
service with the Group and the expected base salary on the date of termination. As part of the valuation we have assumed an average base salary increment of 3% p.a. (2012: 2.5%).  
The expected liability on the date of termination has been discounted to its net present value using a discount rate of 4.25% p.a. (2012: 3% p.a.).
4  The annual bonus for 2013 was based on performance against financial and non-financial performance targets. Performance against these targets is set out in the tables below. No 
bonus payments were made to Executive Directors in respect of 2012.
5 James Moffat was appointed CEO on 1 March 2013.
6 James Moffat’s service agreement included a sign on bonus of USD 208,000 as compensation for forfeiture of long-term and short-term incentive payments from his former employer. 
7 Joanne Curin was appointed CFO on 1 October 2013. 
8 Peter Whitbread’s employment ceased on 30 June 2013.
9 Details of the payments to Peter Whitbread and Frank Nelson are included in the paragraph above headed “Historical recruitment awards for Interim Executives”.
10  Frank Nelson’s remuneration includes a fee of GBP 10,000 for the months of November and December paid under a consulting agreement after the cessation of his employment, as 
reported below.
11 Jonathan Silver, Colin Goodall and Deena Mattar stood down as NEDs on 27 May 2013. Michael Press, Ellis Armstrong and John Malcolm were appointed NEDs on 27 May 2013; Peter 
Whitbread was remunerated as a NED with effect from 1 July 2013.
12 Deena Mattar was paid an additional fee of USD 38,000 in January 2013, as agreed by the Executive Directors and Chairman, in recognition of the temporary increase in workload and 
commitments during the period July to December 2012.
Directors’ Annual Report on Remuneration continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59
Annual bonus 2103: performance against targets
CEO
Metric
Weighting as 
% of maximum 
annual 
opportunity
Actual 
performance
Pay-out 
outcome as % 
of maximum 
annual 
opportunity
Net Profit
1
67% 100% 67%
Safety 11% 90% 10%
Overhead cost reduction 11% 100% 11%
Senior management succession planning 11% 100% 11%
Total 100% 99%
CFO
Net Profit 67% 100% 67%
Debtor reduction 8.25% 0% 0%
Financial structuring/strategy 16.5% 100% 16.5%
Safety 8.25% 90% 7.5%
Total 100% 91%
1  Net profit targets were in the range of USD 10 million (threshold) to USD 30 million (stretch). Stretch target was exceeded.
  
Long-term incentive awards granted during the year
Due to the Company remaining in a restricted period throughout 2013, no awards were made to Executive Directors under the LTIP. As 
reported above, the Company intends to grant the 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards as soon as possible in 2014.
Directors’ interests in share plan awards 
None of the Executive Directors currently holds any interest in long-term incentive awards under the LTIP as at 31 December 2013 as the 
Company remained in a closed period throughout 2013. 
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
The Committee has adopted a formal policy requiring the Executive Directors to build and maintain a shareholding in the Company 
equivalent to 150% of base salary for the CEO and 125% of base salary for the CFO within five years. Until such time as this threshold is 
achieved there is a requirement for executives to retain the net proceeds of all vested share awards. Mr. Moffat and Ms. Curin, who were 
appointed to the Board in March and October respectively, have not currently achieved these guidelines. 
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2013, was as follows:
 
Beneficially 
owned at 
31 December 
2013
Beneficially 
owned at 
31 December 
2012
Outstanding 
share awards
Shareholding as 
a % of 
base salary
Shareholding 
requirement 
met?
Executive Directors
James Moffat – – – – –
Joanne Curin – – – – –
Peter Whitbread 1,667,272 1,667,272 – – –
Frank Nelson – – – – –
Non-Executive Directors
John Kennedy – – – – –
Colin Goodall – 51,955 – – –
Deena Mattar – – – – –
Jonathan Silver 16,464 16,474 – – –
Michael Press – – – – –
John Malcolm – – – – –
Ellis Armstrong – – – – –
Note 1 There were no changes to the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2014 to 25 March 2014.
Note 2 Full details of the Directors’ shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which is open to inspection at the Company’s 
registered office during business hours. 
Payments to former Directors
Frank Nelson was contracted under a part-time short-term Consulting Agreement to provide transitional services following his departure on 
31 October 2013. For this he was paid a total of £15,000 for the period from 1 November 2013 to 31 January 2014.
Payments for loss of office
Peter Whitbread’s employment ceased on 30 June 2013. No payments were made to Mr Whitbread in respect of loss of office, outside of 
those included in the paragraph above headed “Historical recruitment awards for Interim Executives”. 60 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
As reported in 2012, the service contracts of Nigel McCue, Christopher Hand and Jonathan Cooper were terminated by the Company on 3 
October 2012. Under their service contracts, each Director was entitled to full salary and benefits for a notice period of 12 months. However, 
in each case, a compromise agreement was reached under which, in settlement of all claims, the Company made a payment to each of the 
Directors equal to six months of the 12 months’ notice period. No compensation was paid for the period from 3 April to 3 October 2013. No 
annual bonus was payable for 2012. All unvested share-based incentives held by the Directors lapsed on termination of employment.
Percentage change in remuneration levels 
The table below shows the movement in base salary, benefits and annual bonus for the CEO between the 2013 and 2012 financial years, 
compared to that for the average employee of the Group:
% change
Chief Executive Officer
1
Base salary –10.5
Benefits 0
Bonus 0
All employees
Base salary +1
Benefits +1
Bonus 0
1  James Moffat commenced employment on 1 March 2013; Nigel McCue’s contract was terminated on 3 October 2012. All figures relating to CEO remuneration in 2013 are full 
year equivalents. 
Relative importance of the spend on pay 
The table below shows the spend on staff costs in the financial year, compared to dividends:
2013 
GBP’000
2012 
GBP’000
% 
change
Staff costs 130,476 126,741
1
2.94
Dividends – – 0.00
1 2012 figure restated for comparison purposes to reflect sale of International Inspection Services.
Performance graph and CEO pay 
The graph below shows the growth in value of a notional GBP 100 invested in the Company over the last five financial years compared to 
the FTSE 250 Index. The graph covers the time period from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2013. 
T otal Shareholder Return (based to 100) 
Value of £100 invested in October 2008 
Lamprell FTSE 250 
0
150
100
50
200
250
300
350
400
450
Dec-08
Feb-09
Apr-09
Jun-09
Aug-09
Oct-09
Dec-09
Feb-10
Apr-10
Jun-10
Aug-10
Oct-10
Dec-10
Feb-11
Apr-11
Jun-11
Aug-11
Oct-11
Dec-11
Feb-12
Apr-12
Jun-12
Aug-12
Oct-12
Dec-12
Dec-13
Feb-13
Apr-13
Jun-13
Aug-13
Oct-13
Directors’ Annual Report on Remuneration continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61
The total remuneration figures for the CEO during the last five financial years are shown in the table below. Consistent with the calculation 
methodology for the single figure for total remuneration, the total remuneration figure includes the total annual bonus award based on that 
year’s performance and the long-term incentive award based on the three year performance period ending in the relevant year. The annual 
bonus pay-out and long-term incentive award vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown for each year.
Year ending 31 December (USD’000)
2013 2013 2012 2012 2011 2010 2009 2009
CEO James Moffat
1
Peter 
Whitbread
2
Peter Whitbread
2
Nigel McCue
3
Nigel McCue Nigel McCue Nigel McCue
4
Peter Whitbread
5
Total Remuneration 1,652 1,504 352 2,739 2,094 1,824 514 1,211 
Annual bonus 99% 0% 0% 0% 72.3% 100% 0% 0%
LTIP vesting 0% 0% 0% 100% 100% 0% 0% 0%
1 James Moffat was appointed CEO on 1 March 2013. 
2 Peter Whitbread was appointed interim CEO on 4 October 2012 and his employment ceased on 30 June 2013. 
3 Nigel McCue’s employment ceased on 3 October 2012. 
4 Nigel McCue was appointed to the position of the Chief Executive Officer on 27 March 2009 with effect from 1 May 2009.
5 Peter Whitbread resigned as the Chief Executive Officer on 27 March 2009 and was appointed to the position of the Director of International Development with effect from 
1 May 2009.
Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, including both the Directors’ remuneration policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration, was 
approved by the Board on 25 March 2014.
Michael Press
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
25 March 2014 62 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Lamprell plc
Report on the financial statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated and parent company financial statements (“the financial statements”) of Lamprell plc and 
its subsidiaries (the “Group”) which comprise the consolidated and company balance sheets as at 31 December 2013 and the consolidated 
income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated and company statements of changes in equity and 
consolidated and company cash flow statements for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory notes.
Directors’ responsibility for the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with applicable Isle of 
Man law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and for such internal control as the Directors 
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated and parent company financial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. This report, including the opinion, has been 
prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 15 of the Isle of Man Companies Act 1982 and for 
no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom 
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. Those Standards require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from 
material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The 
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s 
preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, 
but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the 
appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating 
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2013, and of its 
financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the parent company as at 31 December 
2013 and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 1982; and
• the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 to 2004.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report on the following:
The Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931-2004 require us to report to you if, in our opinion:
• proper books of account have not been kept by the parent company or, proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company’s balance sheet is not in agreement with the books of account and returns; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations necessary for the purposes of our audit; and
• certain disclosures of Directors’ loans and remuneration specified by law have not been complied with.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement in relation to going concern; and
• the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review.
Nicholas Mark Halsall, Responsible Individual
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC
Chartered Accountants
Douglas, Isle of Man
25 March 2014 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63
Consolidated income statement
Year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012
Note
Pre-exceptional
items
USD’000 
Exceptional
items
USD’000 USD’000 
Pre-exceptional
 items
USD’000
(restated)*
Exceptional
items
USD’000 USD’000
(restated)
1
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 1,091,771 – 1,091,771 1,025,946 – 1,025,946
Cost of sales 6 (976,517) – (976,517) (1,053,611) – (1,053,611)
Gross profit/(loss) 115,254 – 115,254 (27,665) – (27,665)
Selling and distribution expenses 7 (1,591) – (1,591) (1,489) – (1,489)
General and administrative expenses 9 (62,288) – (62,288) (66,640) (4,720) (71,360)
Other gains/(losses) – net 12 1,536 – 1,536 5,602 – 5,602
Operating profit/(loss) 52,911  – 52,911 (90,192) (4,720) (94,912)
Finance costs 11 (14,755) (8,414) (23,169) (22,397) – (22,397)
Finance income 11 975 – 975 867 – 867
Finance costs – net (13,780) (8,414) (22,194) (21,530) – (21,530)
Share of profit of investments accounted for 
using the equity method 19 1,110 – 1,110 1,053 – 1,053
Profit/(loss) before income tax 40,241 (8,414) 31,827 (110,669) (4,720) (115,389)
Income tax expense (1,091) – (1,091) (791) – (791)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing 
operations 39,150 (8,414) 30,736 (111,460) (4,720) (116,180)
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 23 5,707 – 5,707 5,003 – 5,003
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to the 
equity holders of the Company 44,857 (8,414) 36,443 (106,457) (4,720) (111,177)
Earnings/(loss) per share attributable to the 
equity holders of the Company 13
Basic 14.00c (42.72)c
Diluted 13.99c (42.72)c
1 Refer to Note 2.12 (a) for details of the restatement.
The notes on pages 71 to 105 form an integral part of these financial statements. 64 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Year ended 31 December
Note
2013
USD’000 
2012
USD’000
(restated)
Profit/(loss) for the year 36,443 (111,177)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligations (737) 703
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Currency translation differences (66) 334
Cash flow hedges: 
Profit arising on hedges recognised in other comprehensive income – 1,086
Amount reclassified from other comprehensive income – 94
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (803) 2,217
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 35,640 (108,960)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year attributable to the equity holders of the 
Company arises from: 
Continuing operations 30,193 (113,914)
Discontinued operations 23 5,447 4,954
The notes on pages 71 to 105 form an integral part of these financial statements. Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December
Note
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 16 148,323 165,849
Intangible assets 17 213,026 219,827
Investments accounted for using the equity method 19 5,615 4,679
Total non-current assets 366,964 390,355
Current assets
Inventories 20 11,685 13,225
Trade and other receivables 21 327,318 398,349
Derivative financial instruments 28 161 1,152
Cash and bank balances 22 344,573 263,439
683,737 676,165
Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale 23 23,843 –
Total current assets 707,580 676,165
Total assets 1,074,544 1,066,520
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings 31 (56,493) (159,323)
Trade and other payables 29 (424,702) (462,891)
Provision for warranty costs 30 (5,400) –
Current tax liability (57) (144)
(486,652) (622,358)
Liabilities of disposal group classified as held for sale 23 (4,832) –
Total current liabilities (491,484) (622,358)
Net current assets 216,096 53,807
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 31 (104,258) –
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits 27 (36,046) (38,095)
Total non-current liabilities (140,304) (38,095)
Total liabilities (631,788) (660,453)
Net assets 442,756 406,067
EQUITY 
Share capital 25 23,552 23,552
Share premium 25 211,776 211,776
Other reserves 26 (22,133) (22,069)
Retained earnings 229,561 192,808
Total equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company 442,756 406,067
The financial statements on pages 63 to 105 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 25 March 2014 and signed 
on its behalf by:
James Moffat     Joanne Curin
Chief Executive Officer and Director  Chief Financial Officer and Director
The notes on pages 71 to 105 form an integral part of these financial statements. 66 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December
Note
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiaries 18 592,781 591,732
Current assets
Other receivables 369 50
Due from related parties 24 7,631 5,138
Cash at bank 22 103 200
Total current assets 8,103 5,388
Total assets 600,884 597,120
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Accruals (29) (628)
Due to related parties 24 (12,334) (8,367)
Total current liabilities (12,363) (8,995)
Net current liabilities (4,260) (3,607)
Non-current liabilities
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits 27 (75) (918)
Total liabilities (12,438) (9,913)
Net assets 588,446 587,207
EQUITY 
Share capital 25 23,552 23,552
Share premium 25 211,776 211,776
Other reserve 26 329,153 329,153
Retained earnings 23,965 22,726
Total equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company 588,446 587,207
The financial statements on pages 63 to 105 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 25 March 2014 and signed 
on its behalf by:
James Moffat     Joanne Curin
Chief Executive Officer and Director  Chief Financial Officer and Director
The notes on pages 71 to 105 form an integral part of these financial statements. Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Note
Share
capital
USD’000
Share
premium
USD’000
Other
reserves
USD’000
Retained
earnings
USD’000
Total
USD’000
At 1 January 2012 23,552 211,776 (23,644) 322,214 533,898
Loss for the year (restated) – – – (111,177) (111,177)
Other comprehensive income:
Remeasurement of post-employment benefit 
obligations (restated) – – – 703 703
Currency translation differences – – 334 – 334
Cash flow hedges – – 1,180 – 1,180
Total comprehensive loss for the year – – 1,514 (110,474) (108,960)
Transactions with owners:
Share-based payments:
– value of services provided – – – 2,348 2,348
Treasury shares purchased 25 – – – (946) (946)
Proceeds received from exercise of share options – – – 556 556
Transfer to legal reserve 26 – – 61 (61) –
Dividends 33 – – – (20,829) (20,829)
Total transactions with owners – – 61 (18,932) (18,871)
At 31 December 2012 23,552 211,776 (22,069) 192,808 406,067
Profit for the year – – – 36,443 36,443
Other comprehensive income:
Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligations – – – (737) (737)
Currency translation differences – – (66) – (66)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (66) 35,706 35,640
Transactions with owners:
Share-based payments:
– value of services provided – – – 1,049 1,049
Transfer to legal reserve 26 – – 2 (2) –
Total transactions with owners – – 2 1,047 1,049
At 31 December 2013 23,552 211,776 (22,133) 229,561 442,756
The notes on pages 71 to 105 form an integral part of these financial statements. 68 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Company statement of changes in equity
Note
Share
capital
USD’000
Share
premium
USD’000
Other
reserve
USD’000
Retained
earnings
USD’000
Total
USD’000
At 1 January 2012 23,552 211,776 708,852 15,744 959,924
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 26,995 26,995
Transactions with owners:
Share-based payments:
– value of services provided 8 – – – 1,199 1,199
– investment in subsidiaries 18 – – – 1,149 1,149
Treasury shares issued 25 – – – (2,088) (2,088)
Proceeds from shares issued (net) – – – 556 556
Dividends 33 – – – (20,829) (20,829)
Impairment during the year 18 – – (379,699) – (379,699)
Total transactions with owners – – (379,699) (20,013) (399,712)
At 31 December 2012 23,552 211,776 329,153 22,726 587,207
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 190 190
Transactions with owners:
Share-based payments:
– investment in subsidiaries 18 – – – 1,049 1,049
Total transactions with owners – – – 1,049 1,049
At 31 December 2013 23,552 211,776 329,153 23,965 588,446
The notes on pages 71 to 105 form an integral part of these financial statements. Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69
Consolidated cash flow statement
Year ended 31 December
Note
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Operating activities
Cash generated from operating activities 37 118,869 250,662
Tax paid (1,178) (715)
Net cash generated from operating activities 117,691 249,947
Investing activities
Additions to property, plant and equipment 16 (12,007) (16,743)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 367 111
Additions to intangible assets 17 (2,615) (1,839)
Held-to-maturity investment – 6,999
Finance income 11 975 867
Dividend received from joint ventures 19 174 244
Proceeds from disposal of a subsidiary – 1,628
Movement in deposit with original maturity of more than three months 22 (10,276) 45,035
Movement in margin/short-term deposits under lien 22 56,381 (54,809)
Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities 32,999 (18,507)
Financing activities
Proceeds from financial asset at fair value through profit or loss – 7,977
Treasury shares purchased 25 – (946)
Proceeds from options exercised 25 – 556
Dividends paid 33 – (20,823)
Proceeds from borrowings 160,000 60,630
Repayments of borrowings (137,510) (173,853)
Finance costs (22,421) (22,400)
Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities 69 (148,859)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 150,759 82,581
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the year 126,372 43,505
Exchange rate translation (66) 286
Cash and cash equivalents, end of the year 277,065 126,372
Cash and cash equivalents from continued operations 22 275,479 126,372
Cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations 1,586 –
Total 277,065 126,372
The notes on pages 71 to 105 form an integral part of these financial statements. 70 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Company cash flow statement
Year ended 31 December
Note
2013
USD’000 
2012
USD’000
(restated)
Operating activities
Profit for the year 32 209 26,930
Adjustments for:
Share-based payments – value of services provided 8 – 1,199
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits 27 121 162
Dividends received from LEL – (20,826)
Operating cash flows before payment of employees’ end of service benefits and  
changes in working capital 330 7,465
Payment of employees’ end of service benefits 27 (983) –
Changes in working capital:
Other receivables (319) 62
Accruals (599) 107
Due from related parties 24 (2,493) 2,936
Due to related parties 24 3,967 (9,133)
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities (97) 1,437
Investing activities
Dividends received from LEL – 20,826
Net cash generated from investing activities – 20,826
Financing activities
Proceeds from exercise of share options – 556
Treasury shares issued 25 – (2,088)
Dividends paid 33 – (20,829)
Net cash used in financing activities – (22,361)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (97) (98)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the year 200 298
Cash and cash equivalents, end of the year 22 103 200
The notes on pages 71 to 105 form an integral part of these financial statements. Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2013
1 Legal status and activities
Lamprell plc (“the Company/the parent company”) was incorporated and registered on 4 July 2006 in the Isle of Man as a public company 
limited by shares under the Isle of Man Companies Acts with the registered number 117101C. The Company acquired 100% of the legal 
and beneficial ownership in Lamprell Energy Limited (“LEL”) from Lamprell Holdings Limited (“LHL”), under a share for share exchange 
agreement dated 25 September 2006 and this transaction was accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the uniting of 
interests method (Note 26). The Company was admitted to the Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”) of the London Stock Exchange with 
effect from 16 October 2006. From 6 November 2008, the Company moved from AIM and was admitted to trading on the London Stock 
Exchange (“LSE”) plc’s main market for listed securities. The address of the registered office of the Company is Fort Anne, Douglas, Isle of 
Man and the Company is managed from the United Arab Emirates (“UAE”). The address of the principal place of the business is 
PO Box 33455, Dubai, UAE.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as “the Group”) are: the upgrade and refurbishment of 
offshore jackup rigs; fabrication; assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas and renewable sector, including jackup 
rigs and liftboats; Floating Production, Storage and Offloading (“FPSO”) and other offshore and onshore structures; and oilfield engineering 
services, including the upgrade and refurbishment of land rigs.
The Company has either directly or indirectly the following subsidiaries:
Name of the subsidiary
Percentage of
legal ownership
%
Percentage of
beneficial ownership
%
Place of
incorporation
Lamprell Energy Limited 100 100 Isle of Man
Lamprell Investment Holdings Limited (“LIH”) 100 100 British Virgin Islands
Lamprell Dubai LLC (“LD”) 49
1
100 UAE
Lamprell Sharjah WLL (“LS”) 49
1
100 UAE
Maritime Offshore Limited (“MOL”) 100 100 Isle of Man
Maritime Offshore Construction Limited (“MOCL”) 100 100 Isle of Man
International Inspection Services Limited (“Inspec”) 100 100 Isle of Man
Cleopatra Barges Limited (“CBL”) 100 100 British Virgin Islands
Lamprell plc employee benefit trust (“EBT”) 100
2
Unincorporated
Jebel Ali Investments Limited (“JIL”) 100 100 British Virgin Islands
Lamprell Energy FZCO (“LE FZCO”) 90
3
100 UAE
Maritime Industrial Services Co. Ltd Inc (“MIS”) 100 100 Republic of Panama
Maurlis International Ltd. Inc (“MIL”) 100 100 Republic of Panama
Global Management and Acquisition Co. Ltd Inc (“GMAC”) 100
4
100 Republic of Panama
Rig Metals LLC (“RIM”) 49
3
100 UAE
Litwin PEL Co. LLC (“LIT”) 49
3
100 UAE
Maritime Industrial Services Co. Ltd. & Partners (“MISCLP”) 49
3
100 Sultanate of Oman
Global Investment Co. Ltd. Inc (“GIC”) 100 100 Republic of Panama
Maritime International Agency Services Ltd (“MIAS”) 100 100 Republic of Panama
Marine Investment Holdings Co. Ltd. Inc (“MIH”) 100
4
100 Republic of Panama
MIS Control Trading Company Inc. (“MCT”) 100
4
100 Republic of Panama
MIS Qatar LLC (“MISQWLL”) 49
1
100 Qatar
MIS Control Industrial Company Inc (“MCI”) 100
4
100 Republic of Panama
Lamprell Industrial Services Holdings Limited 100 100 British Virgin Islands
International Inspection Services Limited LLC (“IOM”) 49
1
100 Sultanate of Oman
Lamprell Kazakhstan LLP (“LAK”) 100 100 Kazakhstan
1 The remaining balance of 51% in each case is registered in the name of a Gulf Cooperation Council (“GCC”) National/entities owned by a GCC National, but has assigned all 
the economic benefits attached to their shareholdings to the Group entity. The Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and 
has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity via management agreements and accordingly, these entities are consolidated as wholly owned 
subsidiaries in these consolidated financial statements. These shareholders receive sponsorship fees from the Group (Note 24).
2 The beneficiaries of the EBT are the employees of the Group.
3 A UAE free zone company (“FZCO”) is required to have a minimum of two shareholders and consequently, the balance of 10% is held by an employee of LEL in trust for the 
beneficial interest of the Group. A resolution to liquidate this entity was passed on 30 December 2013.
4 GMAC, MIH, MCT and MCI are registered in Panama and were liquidated during the year.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated and parent company financial statements are set out 
below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the financial statements of the parent company have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (“IFRS”) and the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931-2004. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 1982, the Company has not presented its own statement of 
comprehensive income. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The Group is currently financed 
from Shareholders’ equity and borrowings. During the year, the Group secured a new set of debt facilities amounting to USD 181 million 
with revised covenants. This new arrangement significantly simplifies the Company’s lending structure and rationalises the covenants to a 
common basis (Note 31). 72 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
After reviewing its cash flow forecasts for a period of not less than 12 months from the date of signing of these financial statements, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Therefore, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of 
judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated and parent company financial 
statements, are disclosed in Note 4.
(a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
IAS 1 (amendments), “Financial statement presentation” regarding other comprehensive income. The main change resulting from these 
amendments is a requirement for entities to group items presented in “other comprehensive income” (“OCI”) on the basis of whether they 
are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently (reclassification adjustments). The Group has applied this amendment.
IAS 19 (amended), “Employee benefits”. The impact of this amendment will be as follows: to eliminate the corridor approach and recognise 
all actuarial gains and losses in OCI as they occur; to immediately recognise all past service costs; and to replace interest cost and expected 
return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability/(asset). The 
Group has applied this amendment and its impact is mentioned in Note 2.12 (a).
IAS 27 (revised 2011), “Separate financial statements” includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the control 
provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10.
IAS 28 (revised 2011), “Associates and joint ventures” includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be equity 
accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
IFRS 7 (amendment), “Financial instruments: Disclosures”, on asset and liability offsetting. This amendment includes new disclosures to 
facilitate comparison between those entities that prepare IFRS financial statements to those that prepare financial statements in accordance 
with US GAAP.
IFRS 10, “Consolidated financial statements” builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in 
whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent company. The standard provides additional 
guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess. The Group has adopted the new IFRS and it has no 
material impact on Group.
IFRS 12, “Disclosures of interests in other entities” includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interest in other entities, including 
joint arrangements, associates, structured entities and other off balance sheet vehicles. The Group has adopted the new IFRS and it has no 
material impact on Group.
IFRS 11, “Joint arrangements” provides a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the 
arrangement rather than its legal form. There are two types of joint arrangements, joint operations and joint ventures. Joint operations arise 
where a joint operator has rights to the assets and obligations relating to the arrangement and therefore accounts for its interest in assets, 
liabilities, revenue and expenses. Joint ventures arise where the joint operator has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and therefore 
equity accounts for its interest. Proportional consolidation of joint ventures is no longer allowed. The Group has adopted the new IFRS and 
it has no material impact on Group.
IFRS 13, “Fair value measurement”, aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a 
single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs. The requirements, which are largely aligned 
between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its 
use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP. The Group has adopted the new IFRS and it has no 
material impact on Group.
Annual improvements 2011, these annual improvements, address six issues in the 2009-2011 reporting cycle. It includes changes to, IFRS 1, 
“First time adoption”; IAS 1, “Financial statement presentation”; IAS 16, “Property plant and equipment”; IAS 32, “Financial instruments, 
Presentation”, and; IAS 34, “Interim financial reporting”. The Group has adopted these improvements and these have no material impact on 
the Group.
(b) New and amended standards and interpretations mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 
2013 but not currently relevant to the Group
IFRS 1 (amendment), “First time adoption”, on government loans. This amendment addresses how a first-time adopter would account for a 
government loan with a below-market rate of interest when transitioning to IFRS. This amendment is currently not applicable to the Group, 
as the Group has no such government loans.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73
IFRIC 20, “Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine”. This interpretation sets out the accounting for overburden waste 
removal (stripping) costs in the production phase of a mine. The interpretation may require mining entities reporting under IFRS to write off 
existing stripping assets to opening retained earnings if the assets cannot be attributed to an identifiable component of an ore body. This 
amendment is currently not applicable to the Group, as the Group is not into the activity of surface mining.
(c) New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2013 
and not early adopted
IAS 32 (amendments), “Financial instruments: Presentation”, on asset and liability offsetting, are guidance to the application and clarify some 
of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the balance sheet. The Group intends to adopt these 
amendments no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IAS 36 (amendment), “Impairment of assets” on recoverable amount disclosures, addresses the disclosure of information about the 
recoverable amount of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal. The Group intends to adopt this 
amendment no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IAS 39 (amendment), “Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting” on financial instruments recognition and 
measurement, provides relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation to a hedging instrument to a central counter party 
meets specified criteria. The Group is yet to assess the full impact of this amendment and intends to adopt this amendment no later than 
the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
Amendments to IFRS 10, 12 and IAS 27 on consolidation for investment entities. These amendments mean that many funds and similar 
entities will be exempt from consolidating most of their subsidiaries. Instead, they will measure them at fair value through profit or loss. The 
amendments give an exception to entities that meet an “investment entity” definition and which display particular characteristics. Changes 
have also been made IFRS 12 to introduce disclosures that an investment entity needs to make. The Group intends to adopt these 
amendments no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2014 (subject to EU endorsement).
IFRS 9, “Financial instruments”, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. It 
replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be 
classified into two measurement categories: those measured at fair value and those measured at amortised cost. The determination is 
made at initial recognition. The classification depends on the entity’s business model for managing its financial instruments and contractual 
cash flow characteristics of the instrument. For financial liabilities, the standards retain most of the IAS 39 requirements. The main change is 
that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part fair value change due to an entity’s own credit risk is 
recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch. The Group is yet to 
reassess IFRS 9’s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2015 (subject 
to EU endorsement).
IFRIC 21, “Levies”, this is an interpretation of IAS 37, “Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets”. IAS 37 sets out criteria for the 
recognition of a liability, one of which is the requirement for the entity to have a present obligation as a result of a past event (known as an 
obligating event). The interpretation clarifies that the obligating event that gives rise to a liability to pay a levy is the activity described in the 
relevant legislation that triggers the payment of the levy.
2.2 Revenue recognition
(a) Contract revenue
Contract revenue is recognised under the percentage-of-completion method. When the outcome of the contract can be reliably estimated, 
revenue is recognised by reference to the proportion that accumulated costs up to the year end bear to the estimated total costs of the 
contract. When the contract is at an early stage and its outcome cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised to the extent of costs 
incurred up to the year end which are considered recoverable.
With respect to new build fixed price construction contracts with an expected contract duration of 18 months or greater, profit on such 
contracts will only be recognised when the contract has progressed to 20% based on the total estimated cost of the contract and the 
ultimate outcome can be reliably estimated.
Revenue related to variation orders is recognised when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the amount of 
revenue arising from the variation can be reliably measured.
A claim is recognised as contract revenue when settled or when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that 
the customer will accept the claim and the amount can be measured reliably.
Losses on contracts are assessed on an individual contract basis and provision is made for the full amount of the anticipated losses, 
including any losses relating to future work on a contract, in the period in which the loss is first foreseen.
The aggregate of the costs incurred and the profit/loss recognised on each contract is compared against progress billings at the year end. 
Where the sum of the costs incurred and recognised profit or recognised loss exceeds the progress billings, the balance is shown under 
trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts. Where the progress billings exceed the sum of costs incurred and 
recognised profit or recognised loss, the balance is shown under trade and other payables as amounts due to customers on contracts.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 74 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
In determining contract costs incurred up to the year end, any amounts incurred, including advances paid to suppliers and advance billings 
received from sub-contractors relating to future activity on a contract, are excluded and are presented as contract work-in-progress.
(b) Inspection services
Revenue from inspection services is recognised when the services have been rendered; the customer has accepted the service and the 
collectability of the related receivables are reasonably assured.
(c) Products and services
Revenue from sale of products and services is recognised in the accounting period in which the product is sold or the service is rendered.
(d) Interest income
Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using the effective interest rate method.
2.3 Consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the 
Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through 
its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the 
acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group. The 
consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-
related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognises 
any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s 
net assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value 
of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as 
goodwill. If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is 
recognised directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Business combinations involving entities under common control do not fall within the scope of IFRS 3. Consequently, the Directors have a 
responsibility to determine a suitable accounting policy. The Directors have decided to follow the uniting of interests’ method to account for 
business combinations involving entities under common control.
Under the uniting of interests method, there is no requirement to fair value the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities and hence no 
goodwill is recorded as balances remain at book value. Consolidated financial statements include the profit or loss and cash flows for the 
entire year (pre and post merger) as if the subsidiary had always been part of the Group. The aim is to show the combination as if it had 
always been combined.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are 
also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed or 
adjustments have been made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, where necessary, to ensure consistency with the policies adopted 
by the Group.
(b) Joint arrangements
The Group has applied IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements. Under IFRS 11, investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint 
operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. The Company has assessed the nature of 
its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity 
method of accounting, interest in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share of the 
post- acquisition profits or losses and movements in the consolidated income statement. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture 
equals or exceeds its interest in the joint ventures (which includes any long-term interest that, in substance, forms part of the Group’s net 
investment in the joint ventures), the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf 
of the joint ventures.
(c) Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of 
between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under 
the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the 
investor’s share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition. The Group’s investment in associates includes goodwill 
identified on acquisition.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75
The Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement, and its share of post-acquisition 
movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income with a corresponding 
adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in 
the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or 
constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired. If this 
is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its 
carrying value and recognises the amount adjacent to “share of profit/(loss) of an associate” in the consolidated income statement.
2.4 Investment in subsidiaries
In the Company’s separate financial statements, the investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost less provision for impairment. Cost is the 
amount of cash paid or the fair value of the consideration given to acquire the investment. Income from such investments is recognised only 
to the extent that the Company receives distributions from accumulated profits of the investee company arising after the date of acquisition. 
Distributions received in excess of such profit i.e. from pre-acquisition reserves are regarded as a recovery of investment and are recognised 
as a reduction of the cost of the investment.
2.5 Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The Group’s activities are primarily carried out from the UAE, whose 
currency, the UAE Dirham, is pegged to the United States Dollar (“USD”) and is the functional currency of all the entities in the Group (except 
MISCLP and MIO whose functional currency is Omani Riyal, MISQWLL whose functional currency is Qatari Riyal, MIS Kazakh Branch and 
LKZ whose functional currency is Kazakh Tenge and EBT whose functional currency is the Great Britain Pound). The consolidated and parent 
company financial statements are presented in US Dollars.
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the consolidated income statement, except when 
deferred into other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented in the consolidated income 
statement within “finance income or costs”. All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the consolidated income statement 
within “other gains/(losses)-net”.
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a 
functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
• assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
• income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates for the year; and
• all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, are taken to other 
comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are 
recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as part of the gain or loss on sale.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. The cost of property, plant and equipment is the purchase 
cost, together with any incidental expenses of acquisition. Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis over the expected useful 
economic lives of the assets as follows:
Years
Buildings and infrastructure 3–25
Operating equipment 3–15
Fixtures and office equipment 3–5
Motor vehicles 5
The assets’ residual values, if significant and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. Subsequent 
costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All repairs and 
maintenance are charged to the consolidated income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 76 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Capital work-in-progress is stated at cost. When commissioned, capital work-in-progress is transferred to property, plant and equipment 
and depreciated in accordance with Group policies.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable 
amount (Note 2.22).
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within “other gains/
(losses) – net” in the consolidated income statement.
2.7 Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over Lamprell 
plc’s interest in the net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree and the fair value of the 
non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Cash Generating Units 
(“CGUs”) or groups of CGUs, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each unit or group of units to which the 
goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. 
Goodwill is monitored at the operating segment level.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential 
impairment. The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value 
less costs to sell. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
(b) Trade name
A trade name acquired as part of a business combination is capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition if 
the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably. Amortisation is calculated on a 
straight line method to allocate the fair value at acquisition over their estimated useful life of 10 years. The useful life of a trade name is 
reviewed on an annual basis.
(c) Customer relationships
Customer relationships acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date of 
acquisition if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably. Amortisation is 
calculated on a straight line method to allocate the fair value at acquisition over their estimated useful life of four years. The useful life of 
customer relationships is reviewed on an annual basis.
(d) Operating lease rights
Intangible assets representing operating leasehold rights are carried at cost (being the fair value on the date of acquisition where 
intangibles are acquired in a business combination) less accumulated amortisation and impairment, if any. Amortisation is calculated using 
the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the leasehold right over its estimated useful life.
(e) Computer software
Work-in-progress in relation to computer software is stated at cost. Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the software 
product include employee costs. Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent 
period. When commissioned, work-in-progress is transferred to software and amortised in accordance with Group policies.
2.8 Inventories
Inventories comprise raw materials and consumables which are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. Cost is 
determined on the weighted average basis and comprises direct purchase and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition.
2.9 Trade receivables
Trade receivables are amounts receivable from customers for billing in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in one year 
or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will 
not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, 
probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered 
indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement within “general and administrative expenses”. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off 
against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against “general 
and administrative expenses” in the consolidated income statement.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77
2.10 Trade payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from  
suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented  
as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
2.11 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that  
an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and a reliable estimate of the amount  
of the obligation can be made.
2.12 Employee benefits
(a) Provision for staff benefits
A provision is made for the estimated liability for employees’ entitlements to annual leave and related benefits as a result of services 
rendered by the employees up to the balance sheet date. Provision is also made, using actuarial techniques, for the end of service benefits 
due to employees in accordance with the Labour Laws applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, for their periods of service 
up to the balance sheet date. The provision relating to annual leave and leave passage is disclosed as a current liability and included in trade 
and other payables, while that relating to end of service benefits is disclosed as a non-current liability.
IAS 19 (revised), amends the accounting for employment benefits. The Group has applied the standard retrospectively in accordance  
with the transitional provisions of the standard. The impact of this on the Group has been to restate the income statement and other 
comprehensive income by recognising all actuarial gains and losses as previously reported at the reporting dates in the income statement  
in OCI as they occur.
There was no effect of the change in the accounting policy on the consolidated balance sheet. The table below shows the effect on the 
consolidated income statement.
Impact on the consolidated income statement:
Year ended
31 December 
2012
USD’000
Increase/(decrease)
Cost of sales 605
Gross loss 605
General and administrative expenses 98
Operating loss 703
Loss before income tax 703
Impact on the Company income statement:
Year ended
31 December
2012
USD’000
Increase/(decrease)
General and administrative expenses 65
Operating loss 65
Loss before income tax 65
(b) Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of the shares/options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is 
determined by reference to the fair value of the shares/options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for 
example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of shares/
options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of shares/options that are 
expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the consolidated income statement, with a 
corresponding adjustment to retained earnings.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 78 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The Company has granted rights to its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary companies conditional upon the completion of 
continuing service with the Group for a specified period. The total amount of the grant over the vesting period is determined by reference 
to the fair value of the equity instruments granted and is recognised in each period as an increase in the investment in the subsidiary with a 
corresponding credit to retained earnings. In the separate financial statements of the subsidiary, the fair value of the employee services 
received in exchange for the grant of the equity instruments of the Company is recognised as an expense with a corresponding credit 
to equity.
2.13 Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the consolidated income statement 
on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.14 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current accounts with banks less margin deposits, other short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturity of three months or less and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current 
liabilities on the balance sheet.
2.15 Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost; any 
difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the repayment value is recognised in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. The Group capitalises general and specific 
borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
2.16 Dividend distribution
Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the Group’s consolidated and parent company financial statements in the period in 
which the dividends are approved by the shareholders.
2.17 Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The 
chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and accessing performance of the operating segments, has been 
identified as the Executive Directors that make strategic decisions.
2.18 Current and deferred income tax
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the 
countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in tax returns with respect to situations in which the applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where 
appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they 
arise from the initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit 
or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet 
date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except for deferred income tax liability 
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will 
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the 
same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
2.19 Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and held-to-
maturity. Currently, the Group does not have any available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the 
financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79
(a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category if 
acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are 
designated as hedges. Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in the 
consolidated income statement. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired 
or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the “financial assets at fair value through profit or loss” category are presented in the 
consolidated income statement within “other gains/(losses) – net” in the period in which they arise.
(b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They 
are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. These are classified as non-current 
assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise trade receivables (Note 2.9), other receivables (excluding prepayments), receivables from 
a related party and cash and cash equivalents (Note 2.14) in the consolidated balance sheet and amounts due from related parties (Note 24) 
and cash at bank (Note 22) in the Company balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost less provision for 
impairment. The amortised cost is computed using the effective interest method.
Loans and receivables are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the counterparty have expired or have been transferred 
and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of the ownership.
(c) Held-to-maturity
Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the 
Group’s management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. If the Group were to sell other than an insignificant amount 
of held-to-maturity financial assets, the whole category would be tainted and reclassified as available for sale. Held-to-maturity financial 
assets are included in non-current assets, except for those with maturities less than 12 months from the end of the reporting period, which 
are classified as current assets. The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a held-to-maturity 
financial asset or a group of held-to-maturity financial assets is impaired.
(d) Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets 
is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence 
of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a “loss event”) and that loss event (or 
events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
2.20 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their 
fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument 
and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge).
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its 
risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at 
hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting 
changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or 
loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the 
consolidated income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported 
in equity is immediately transferred to the consolidated income statement within “other gains/(losses) – net”.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in Note 28. The full fair value of a hedging 
derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or 
liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement 
within “other gains/(losses) – net”.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 80 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the item affects profit or loss (for example, when the 
forecast sale that is hedged takes place). The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement within “other gains/(losses) – net”. However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-
financial asset (for example, contracts work-in-progress or fixed assets), the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred 
from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset. The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in cost of 
goods sold in the case of contracts work in progress or in depreciation in the case of fixed assets.
2.21 Assets held for sale
Assets are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is 
considered highly probable. They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, if their carrying amount is to be 
recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
2.22 Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life – for example, goodwill or intangible assets not ready to use – are not subject to amortisation and 
are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its 
value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable 
cash flows (cash-generating units). Non-financial assets that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at 
each reporting date. Any material impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement and separately disclosed.
2.23 Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a 
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. The excess of proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs over the par 
value  of the shares are credited to the share premium.
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares 
are cancelled or reissued. Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable 
incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders.
2.24 Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the 
financial performance of the Group. They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance 
of their nature or amount.
3 Financial risk management
3.1 Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange and cash flow interest rate risk), credit 
risk and liquidity risk. These risks are evaluated by management on an ongoing basis to assess and manage critical exposures. The Group’s 
liquidity and market risks are managed as part of the Group’s treasury activities. Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of 
established policies and procedures.
(a) Market risk – foreign exchange risk
The Group has foreign exchange risk primarily with respect to commitments in Euro with certain suppliers. To manage the foreign exchange 
risk exposure arising from future commercial transactions and recognised liabilities, the Group uses forward exchange contracts (Note 28).
(b) Market risk – cash flow interest rate risk
The Group holds its surplus funds in short-term bank deposits. During the year ended 31 December 2013, if interest rates on deposits had 
been 0.5% higher/lower, the interest income would have been higher/lower by USD 899,000 (2012: USD 564,000).
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Borrowings at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk 
which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates. During the year ended 31 December 2013, if interest rates on borrowings had been 
0.5% higher/lower, the interest expense would have been higher/lower by USD 730,000 (2012: USD 1,110,000).
(c) Credit risk
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is detailed in Notes 15, 21, 22 and 28. The Group has a policy for dealing with customers with an 
appropriate credit history. The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banks, held-to-maturity investment, 
financial asset carried at fair value through profit or loss, trade and other receivables and derivative financial instruments. The Group has a 
formal procedure of monitoring and follow up of customers for outstanding receivables. For banks and financial institutions, only 
independently rated parties with a minimum rating of ‘B’ are accepted. The Group assesses internally the credit quality of each customer, 
taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81
At 31 December 2013, the Group had a significant concentration of credit risk with nine of its largest customer balances accounting for 
81% (2012: 53%) of trade receivables outstanding at that date. Management believes that this concentration of credit risk is mitigated as 
the Group has long-standing relationships with these customers.
The following table shows the rating and balance of the thirteen major counterparties at the balance sheet date:
2013 2012
Counterparty
External 
rating
+
USD’000
External 
rating
1
USD’000
Bank A AA- 173,407 AA- 104,373
Bank B A+ 89,785 A 67,714
Bank C AA- 37,992 AA- 37,492
Bank D AA- 22,884 AA- 18,728
324,068 228,307
1 Based on Fitch’s long term ratings.
2013 2012
Internal 
rating
2
USD’000
 Internal
rating
++
USD’000
Customer 1  Group B 94,138 Group A 14,830
Customer 2 Group B 8,358 Group A 14,060
Customer 3 Group A 5,314 Group B 10,577
Customer 4 Group B 4,968 Group A 7,455
Customer 5 Group C 3,928 Group B 3,412
Customer 6 Group B 3,304 Group B 3,412
Customer 7 Group C 2,746 Group C 2,974
Customer 8 Group B 2,618 Group A 2,487
Customer 9 Group A 2,517 Group C 2,359
127,891 61,566
2 Refer to Note 15 for the description of internal ratings.
The counterparties in 2013 are not necessarily the same counterparties in 2012.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
(d) Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of 
committed credit facilities. The Group is currently financed from Shareholders’ equity and borrowings. During the year, the Group secured a 
new set of debt facilities amounting to USD 181 million with revised covenants. This new arrangement significantly simplifies the Company’s 
lending structure and rationalises the covenants to a common basis.
The Group’s liquidity risk on derivative financial instruments is disclosed in Note 28.
The following table analyses the Group’s other financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the 
balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Carrying 
amount
USD’000
Contractual 
cash flows
USD’000
Less than
1 year
USD’000
Between 
2 to 3 years
USD’000
31 December 2013
Trade and other payables (excluding due to customers on contracts and dividend 
payable) (Note 29) 234,744 234,744 234,744 –
Borrowings (Note 31) 160,751 161,987 56,987 105,000
395,495 396,731 291,731 105,000
31 December 2012
Trade and other payables (excluding due to customers on contracts, advances  
received for contract work and dividend payable) (Note 29) 258,639 258,639 258,639 –
Borrowings (Note 31) 159,323 159,323 159,323 –
417,962 417,962 417,962 –
3 Financial risk management continued 82 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
3.2 Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, or issue new shares 
to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is 
calculated as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings as shown in the balance sheet) less cash and bank balances. 
Total capital is calculated as “equity” as shown in the balance sheet plus net debt.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has no net debt and was therefore ungeared.
3.3 Fair value estimation
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows:
a. Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1);
b. Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or 
indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (Level 2); and
c. Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (Level 3).
The following table presents the Group’s assets that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2012 and 2013:
Level 1
USD’000
Level 2
USD’000
Level 3
USD’000
Total
USD’000
31 December 2013
Derivative financial instruments (Note 28) – 161 – 161
31 December 2012
Derivative financial instruments (Note 28) – 1,152 – 1,152
There were no liabilities at 31 December 2012 and 2013 measured at fair value.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. These valuation 
techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all 
significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. If one or more of the significant 
inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
a. Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments; and
b.  Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of 
future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the 
future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that 
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 
as follows:
Revenue recognition
The Group uses the percentage-of-completion method in accounting for its contract revenue. Use of the percentage-of-completion method 
requires the Group to estimate the stage of completion of the contract to date as a proportion of the total contract work to be performed 
in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.2. As a result, the Group is required to estimate the total cost to completion of 
all outstanding projects at each period end. The application of a 10% sensitivity to management estimates of the total costs to completion 
of all outstanding projects at the year-end would result in the revenue and profit increasing by USD 28.3 million (2012: USD 24.4 million) if 
the total costs to complete are decreased by 10% and the revenue and profit decreasing by USD 29.7 million (2012: USD 45.2 million) if the 
total costs to complete are increased by 10%.
Estimated impairment of goodwill
The Group tests goodwill (Note 17) for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential 
impairment. Goodwill is monitored by management at the “CGU relating to upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs, fabrication, 
assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas and renewables sectors, including FPSO and other offshore and onshore 
structures, oilfield engineering services, including the upgrade and refurbishment of land rigs”.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
3 Financial risk management continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83
The recoverable amount of CGU
1
 is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates. These 
calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three-year period. Cash flows 
beyond the three-year period are extrapolated using an estimated revenue growth rate of 5% (2012: 5%). A discount rate of 11.48% (2012: 
12.96%) is used to discount the pre-tax cash flow projections to the present value. In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group 
considers the weighted average cost of capital employed, which takes into consideration the risk free rate of US treasury bonds with the long 
term maturity period, UAE inflation rate, Equity risk premium on the entities operating from UAE, Group’s beta and cost of Group’s debt.
A change in the assumptions selected by management used in the cash flow projections could significantly affect the impairment evaluation. 
If the revenue growth rate used was to differ by 0.5% from management’s estimates, there would be a reduction of USD 3 million (2012: 
USD 1.6 million) in the headroom if the revenue growth rate was lower by 0.5% and the headroom would be higher by USD 3 million (2012: 
USD 1.6 million) if the revenue growth rate was higher by 0.5%. If the discount rate used was to differ by 0.5% from management’s 
estimates, there would be a reduction in the headroom of USD 27.6 million (2012: USD 23.6 million) if the discount rate was to increase by 
0.5% or an increase in the headroom by USD 31.2 million (2012: USD 26.3 million) if the discount rate was to decrease by 0.5%. If the net 
profit as a percentage of revenue used was to differ by 0.5% from management’s estimates, there would be an increase of USD 56.1 million 
(2012: USD 61.9 million) in the headroom if the net profit as a percentage of revenue was to increase by 0.5% and there would be a 
decrease of USD 56.1 million (2012: USD 61.9 million) in the headroom if the net profit as a percentage of revenue were to decrease by 
0.5%. If the terminal value growth rate used was to differ by 0.5% from management’s estimates, there would be a reduction in the 
headroom of USD 19.9 million (2012: USD 16.7 million) if the terminal value growth rate was lower by 0.5% or an increase in the headroom 
of USD 22.5 million (2012: USD 18.6 million) if the terminal value growth rate was higher by 0.5%.
Estimated impairment of investment in subsidiaries
The Company tests investment in subsidiaries (Note 18) for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate a potential impairment. The recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiaries is determined based on value-in-use calculations. 
These calculations require the use of estimates. These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by 
management covering a three-year period.
Cash flows beyond the three-year period are extrapolated using the estimated revenue growth rate of 5% (2012: 5%). A discount rate of 
11.48% (2012: 12.96%) is used to discount the pre-tax cash flows projections to the present value. In determining the appropriate discount 
rate, the Group considers the weighted average cost of capital employed, which takes into consideration the risk free rate of US treasury 
bonds with the long-term maturity period, UAE inflation rate, Equity risk premium on the entities operating from UAE, Group’s beta and cost 
of Group’s debt.
A change in the assumptions selected by management used in the cash flow projections, could significantly affect the impairment 
evaluation. If the revenue growth rate used was to differ by 0.5% from management’s estimates, the headroom would be lower by 
USD 3.1 million (2012: impairment charge higher by USD 2.1 million) if the revenue growth rate was decreased by 0.5% and the headroom 
would be higher by USD 3.1 million (2012: impairment charge lower by USD 2.1 million) if the revenue growth rate was increased by 0.5%. If 
the discount rate used was to differ by 0.5% from management’s estimates, the headroom would be lower by USD 27.5 million  
(2012: impairment charge higher by USD 25.5 million) if the discount rate was increased by 0.5% and the headroom would be higher by 
USD 31.1 million (2012: impairment charge lower by USD 28.3 million) if the discount rate was decreased by 0.5%. If the net profit as a 
percentage of revenue was to differ by 0.5% from management’s estimates, there would be an impairment charge of USD 56.4 million 
(2012: impairment charge higher by USD 67.1 million) if the net profit as a percentage of revenue was lower by 0.5% and the headroom 
would be higher by USD 56.4 million (2012: impairment charge lower by USD 67.1 million) if the net profit as a percentage of revenue was 
higher by 0.5%. If the terminal value growth rate was to differ by 0.5% from management’s estimates, the headroom would be lower by 
USD 19.8 million (2012: impairment charge higher by USD 17.8 million) if the terminal value growth rate was lower by 0.5% and the 
headroom would be higher by USD 22.4 million (2012: the impairment charge would be lower by USD 19.8 million) if the terminal value 
growth rate was increased by 0.5%.
If the investment in LEL was to be further impaired based on the above sensitivity analysis, the impairment loss on the investment in LEL will 
be adjusted from the other reserve (Note 26) in the separate financial statements of the Company and accordingly this will have no impact 
on the Group’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Employees’ end of service benefits
The rate used for discounting the employees’ post-employment defined benefit obligation should be based on market yields on high quality 
corporate bonds. In countries where there is no deep market for such bonds, the market yields on government bonds should be used. In the 
UAE, there is no deep market for corporate bonds and no market for government bonds and therefore, the discount rate has been estimated 
using the US AA-rated corporate bond market as a proxy. On this basis, the discount rate applied was 4.25% (2012: 3 %). If the discount 
rate used was to differ by 0.5 points from management’s estimates, the carrying amount of the employee’s end of the service benefits 
provision at the balance sheet date would be an estimated USD 1.3 million (2012: USD 1.2 million) lower or USD 1.4 million (2012: 
USD 1.3 million) higher. If the salary growth rate used was to differ by 0.5 points from management’s estimates, the carrying amount of the 
employee’s end of the service benefits provision at the balance sheet date would be an estimated USD 1.5 million (2012: USD 1.3 million) 
higher or USD 1.4 million (2012: USD 1.2 million) lower.
4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 84 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
5 Segment information
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The 
chief operating decision-maker has been identified as the Executive Directors who make strategic decisions. The Executive Directors review 
the Group’s internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources. Management has determined the operating segments 
based on these reports.
The Executive Directors consider the business mainly on the basis of the facilities from where the services are rendered. Management 
considers the performance of the business from Sharjah (“SHJ”), Hamriyah (“HAM”) and Jebel Ali (“JBA”) in addition to the performance of 
Land Rig Services (“LRS”), Sunbelt, Engineering and Construction (“E&C”) and Operations and Management (“O&M”).
SHJ, HAM, JBA and LRS are reported as a single segment (Segment A). Services provided from Sunbelt, E&C and O&M do not meet the 
quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8, and the results of these operations are included in the “all other segments” column.
The reportable operating segments derive their revenue from the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs, fabrication, assembly 
and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas and renewables sectors, including FPSO and other offshore and onshore structures, 
oilfield engineering services, including the upgrade and refurbishment of land rigs.
Sunbelt derives its revenue from safety and training services, E&C derives its revenue from site works, compression and chemicals and, O&M 
derives its revenue from the labour supply and other operations and maintenance services.
Segment A
USD’000
All other
segments
USD’000
Total
USD’000
Year ended 31 December 2013
Total segment revenue 1,009,818 90,042 1,099,860
Inter-segment revenue (525) (7,564) (8,089)
Revenue from external customers 1,009,293 82,478 1,091,771
Gross operating profit 127,881 32,030 159,911
Year ended 31 December 2012
Total segment revenue 950,176 75,770 1,025,946
Revenue from external customers 950,176 75,770 1,025,946
Gross operating profit 22,171 8,267 30,438
Sales between segments are carried out on agreed terms. The revenue from external parties reported to the Executive Directors is measured 
in a manner consistent with that in the consolidated income statement.
The Executive Directors assess the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of gross profit. The staff, equipment and 
certain subcontract costs are measured based on standard cost. The measurement basis excludes the effect of the common expenses for 
yard rent, repairs and maintenance and other miscellaneous expenses. The reconciliation of the gross operating profit/(loss) is provided 
as follows:
2013
USD’000 
2012
USD’000
(restated)
Gross operating profit for the reportable segment as reported to the Executive Directors 127,881 22,171
Gross operating profit for all other segments as reported to the Executive Directors 32,030 8,267
Unallocated:
Under-absorbed employee and equipment costs (15,069) (26,746)
Repairs and maintenance (13,168) (17,615)
Yard rent and depreciation (9,829) (9,297)
Others (6,591) (4,445)
Gross profit/(loss) 115,254 (27,665)
Selling and distribution expenses (Note 7) (1,591) (1,489)
General and administrative expenses (Note 9) (62,288) (71,360)
Other gains/(losses) – net (Note 12) 1,536 5,602
Finance costs (Note 11) (23,169) (22,397)
Finance income (Note 11) 975 867
Others 19 262
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 30,736 (116,180)
Information about segment assets and liabilities is not reported to or used by the Executive Directors and accordingly, no measures of 
segment assets and liabilities are reported.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85
The breakdown of revenue from all services is as follows:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
New build activities – oil and gas 580,200 493,637
New build activities – renewables 95,070 66,365
Upgrade and refurbishment activities 122,529 176,896
Offshore construction 195,619 179,666
Others 98,353 109,382
1,091,771 1,025,946
The Group’s principal place of business is in the UAE. The revenue recognised in the UAE with respect to services performed to external 
customers is USD 1,076.3 million (2012: USD 1,011.3 million), and the revenue recognised from the operations in other countries is 
USD 15.5 million (2012: USD 14.6 million).
Certain customers individually accounted for greater than 10% of the Group’s revenue and is shown in the table below:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
External customer A 332,792 188,993
External customer B 147,830 122,453
External customer C 112,967 109,518
593,589 420,964
The revenue from these customers is attributable to Segment A. The above customers in 2013 are not necessarily the same customers 
in 2012.
6 Cost of sales
2013
USD’000 
2012
USD’000
(restated)
Materials and related costs 413,103 407,339
Sub-contract costs 236,682 295,577
Staff costs (Note 10) 193,521 193,452
Sub-contract labour 54,966 65,993
Equipment hire 17,854 25,155
Depreciation (Note 16) 17,001 18,695
Repairs and maintenance 13,168 15,206
Yard rent 6,194 7,194
Warranty costs 5,400 –
Others 18,628 25,000
976,517 1,053,611
7 Selling and distribution expenses
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Travel 945 944
Advertising and marketing 498 493
Entertainment 96 48
Others 52 4
1,591 1,489
5 Segment information continued 86 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
8 Share-based payments
Group
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Amount of share-based charge (Note10):
– relating to free share plan 610 543
– relating to executive share option plan – 17
– relating to performance share plan 391 1,727
1,001 2,287
Company
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Amount of share-based charge:
– relating to executive share option plan – 17
– relating to performance share plan – 1,182
– 1,199
Free share plan
The Company awarded shares to selected Directors, key management personnel and employees under the free share plan that provides an 
entitlement to receive these shares at no cost. These free shares are conditional on the Directors/key management personnel/employee 
completing a specified period of service (the vesting period). The award does not have any performance conditions and does not entitle 
participants to dividend equivalents during the vesting period. The fair value of the share awards made under this plan is based on the share 
price at the date of the grant, less the value of the dividends foregone during the vesting period.
The details of the shares granted under this scheme are as follows:
Grant date
Number
of shares
Vesting
period
Fair value
per share
Expected
withdrawal
rate
2012
26 April 2012 287,500 24 months £3.49 –
A charge of USD 610,000 (2012: USD 543,000) is recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year with a corresponding credit 
to the consolidated retained earnings.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to settle the free share awards in cash.
An analysis of the number of shares granted, vested during the year and expected to vest in future periods is provided below:
Number of
shares
Shares expected to vest in future periods at 1 January 2012 –
Shares granted under free share plan 287,500
Shares lapsed due to non-satisfaction of vesting conditions (70,000)
Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2012 217,500
Shares lapsed due to non-satisfaction of vesting conditions (90,000)
Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2013 127,500
Executive share option plan
Share options are granted by the Company to certain employees under the executive share option plan. This option plan does not entitle 
the employees to dividends. These options are conditional on the employee completing three years of service (the vesting period) and hence 
the options are exercisable starting three years from the grant date and have a contracted option term of ten years. The Group has no legal 
or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87
The movement in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise price is as follows:
Exercise
price in
£ per share Options Vesting date Expiry date
At 1 January 2009 3.22 105,369 16 May 2010 16 May 2017
Granted in 2009 0.57 550,000 31 March 2012 31 March 2019
Forfeited in 2009 3.22 (19,585)
At 31 December 2009 and 2010 0.93 635,784
Vested and exercised 3.22 (35,253)
Vested but not exercised 3.22 (50,531)
At 31 December 2011 0.57 550,000
Adjustment for the rights issue 0.57 55,048
Vested and exercised 0.57 (605,048)
At 31 December 2012 –
5,876 options under this plan were vested on due date but not exercised or lapsed at 31 December 2013 (2012: 13,711).
The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2009, determined using a binomial valuation model was, £0.28 per option. The 
significant inputs into the model were an average share price for a period of one year immediately preceding the grant date of £2.91, an 
exercise price of £0.57, volatility of 50%, dividend yield of 3.31%, an expected option term of ten years, an annual risk-free interest rate of 
3.28% and a withdrawal rate of 5% per annum. The risk free rate is derived from the yield on United Kingdom (UK) Government Bonds as 
detailed by the Bank of England, using a 10 year maturity in line with the life of the option. The volatility assumption is based on an analysis 
of the historic daily share price volatility of the Company since its listing date, capped at 50%. During 2012, a charge of USD 17,000 is 
recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year with a corresponding credit to the consolidated retained earnings. This 
includes a charge recognised in the income statement of the Company with a corresponding credit to retained earnings of USD 17,000.
Performance share plan
The Company granted share awards to Directors, key management personnel and selected employees that give them an entitlement to 
receive a certain number of shares subject to the satisfaction of a performance target and continued employment. The performance target 
related to the growth in the Group’s earnings per share. The fair value of the share awards made under this plan is based on the share price 
at the date of the grant less the value of the dividends foregone during the vesting period.
The details of the shares granted under this scheme are as follows:
Grant date
Number
of shares
Vesting
period
Fair value
per share
Dividend
entitlement
Expected
withdrawal
rate
2010
15 April 2010 502,572 36 months £2.57 No 5%
2011
2 September 2011 339,448 36 months £2.97 Yes –
8 December 2011 38,512 36 months £2.81 Yes –
377,960
2012
16 April 2012 507,216 36 months £3.19 No –
Accordingly, a charge of USD 439,000 (2012: USD 1,788,000) is recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year with a 
corresponding credit to the consolidated retained earnings. During 2012, this includes a charge recognised in the income statement of the 
Company with a corresponding credit to retained earnings of USD 1,182,000.
8 Share-based payments continued 88 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to settle the free share awards in cash.
An analysis of the number of shares gifted/granted, vested during the year and expected to vest in future periods is provided below:
Number of
shares
Shares expected to vest in future periods at 1 January 2012 880,532
Shares granted performance share plan 507,216
Shares lapsed due to non-satisfaction of vesting conditions (1,116,360)
Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2012 271,388
Shares lapsed due to non-satisfaction of vesting conditions (113,917)
Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2013 157,471
9 General and administrative expenses
2013
USD’000 
2012
USD’000
(restated)
Staff costs (Note 10) 32,433 31,197
Legal, professional and consultancy fees 5,321 6,370
Depreciation (Note 16) 5,153 4,993
Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 17) 9,416 8,534
Utilities and communication 719 717
Provision for impairment of trade receivables, net of amounts recovered 1,804 6,281
Write-off of intangible assets – 4,339
Regulatory fine – 3,720
Others 7,442 5,209
62,288 71,360
During 2012, general and administrative expenses includes exceptional items relating to a regulatory fine amounting to USD 3.7 million and 
related legal expenses of USD 1 million (Note 34).
10 Staff costs
2013
USD’000 
2012
USD’000
(restated)
Wages and salaries 130,476 126,741
Employees’ end of service benefits (Note 27) 6,166 6,847
Share-based payments – value of services provided (Note 8) 1,001 2,287
Termination benefits – 1,718
Other benefits 88,311 87,056
225,954 224,649
Staff costs are included in:
Cost of sales (Note 6) 193,521 193,452
General and administrative expenses (Note 9) 32,433 31,197
225,954 224,649
Number of employees at 31 December 7,568 7,950
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
8 Share-based payments continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89
Directors’ remuneration comprises:
Salary
2013
USD’000
Fees
2013
USD’000
Allowances
& benefits
2013
USD’000
Share based 
payments 
value of 
services 
provided
 2013
USD’000
Post
employment
benefits
2013
USD’000
Termination 
benefits
2013
USD’000
Total
2013
USD’000
Total
2012
USD’000
Executive Directors
Jim Moffat
+
627 – 985 – 40 – 1,652 –
Joanne Curin
++
136 – 148 – 28 – 312 –
Peter Whitbread
+++
655 52 849 – – – 1,556 352
Frank Nelson
++++
417 – 812 – 32 – 1,261 –
Nigel McCue* – – – – – – – 1,962
Chris Hand** – – – – – – – 1,152
Jonathan Cooper*** – – – – – – – 1,186
Non-Executive Directors
John Kennedy**** – 290 – – – – 290 145
Michael Press***** – 82 – – – – 82 –
John Malcolm
^
– 70 – – – – 70 –
Ellis Armstrong
^^
– 68 – – – – 68 –
Jonathan Silver
^^^
– 58 – – – – 58 264
Deena Mattar
^^^^
– 88 – – – – 88 58
Colin Goodall
^^^^^
– 58 – – – – 58 137
Richard Raynaut
^^^^^^
– – – – – – – 39
Brian Fredrick
^^^^^^^
– – – – – – – 34
1,835 766 2,794 – 100 – 5,495 5,329
The emoluments of the highest paid Director were USD 1.6 million (2012: USD 2 million) and these principally comprised salary, benefits, 
bonus and share based payments.
+ Appointed as Chief Executive Officer and Director on 1 March 2013.
++ Appointed as Chief Financial Officer and Director on 1 October 2013.
+++  Appointed as Interim Chief Executive Officer and Director on 4 October 2012; retired as Interim Chief Executive Officer with effect from 1 March 2013; retired as 
Director with effect from 30 June 2013 and appointed as Non-executive Director on 1 July 2013.
++++  Appointed as Interim Chief Financial Officer on 4 October 2012; appointed Chief Financial Officer and Director on 21 March 2013 and resigned as Chief Financial 
Officer and Director with effect from 31 October 2013.
* Stood down as Chief Executive Officer and Director with effect from 4 October 2012.
** Stood down as Chief Operating Officer and Director with effect from 4 October 2012.
*** Stood down as Chief Financial Officer and Director with effect from 4 October 2012.
**** Appointed as Non-Executive Chairman on 15 June 2012.
***** Appointed as Non-Executive Director on 27 May 2013.
^ Appointed as Non-Executive Director on 27 May 2013.
^^ Appointed as Non-Executive Director on 27 May 2013.
^^^ Appointed as Deputy Chairman with effect from 7 June 2012 and retired with effect from 27 May 2013.
^^^^ Appointed as Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2012 and retired with effect from 27 May 2013.
^^^^^ Retired as Non-Executive Director with effect from 27 May 2013.
^^^^^^ Retired as Non-Executive Director with effect from 7 June 2012.
^^^^^^^ Resigned as Non-Executive Director with effect from 14 June 2012.
11 Finance costs – net
Finance costs
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Bank guarantee charges 5,906 6,764
Interest on bank borrowings 7,693 9,574
Facility fees 36 4,429
Commitment fees 431 67
Others 9,103 1,563
23,169 22,397
During 2013, others in finance costs includes USD 8.4 million relating to expenses incurred during the process of covenant waivers and 
refinancing negotiations with lenders (Note 34).
Finance income
Finance income comprises interest income on bank deposits of USD 0.98 million (2012: USD 0.87 million).
10 Staff costs continued 90 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
12 Other gains/(losses) – net
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Fair value gain on derivatives (Note 28) 501 1,152
(Loss)/profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (385) 37
Gain on settlement of receivable from KSAM2 – 4,265
Gain on disposal of a subsidiary – 853
Fair value loss on financial asset carried at fair value through profit or loss – (195)
Gain on settlement of held-to-maturity investment – 120
Exchange gain/(loss) – net 468 (947)
Others 952 317
1,536 5,602
13 Earnings/(loss) per share
(a) Basic
Basic earnings/(loss) per share is calculated by dividing the profit/(loss) attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares 
(Note 25).
(b) Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of 
all dilutive potential ordinary shares. For the free share awards, options under the executive share option plan and the performance share 
plan, a calculation is performed to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value (determined as the average 
annual market share price of the Company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share 
awards/options. The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming 
the exercise of the share awards/options.
In the previous year, as the Company had incurred a loss from continuing operations, all of the Company’s existing potential ordinary shares 
were not dilutive as they decrease the loss from continuing operations.
2013
USD’000 
2012
USD’000
(restated)
The calculations of earnings/(loss) per share are based on the following profit/(loss) and numbers of shares:
Profit/(loss) for the year 36,443 (111,177)
Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings/(loss) per share 260,348,415 260,219,631
Adjustments for:
Assumed exercise of the free share awards 65,725 –
Assumed vesting of the performance share plan 38,419 –
Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 260,452,559 260,219,631
Earnings/(loss) per share:
Basic 14.00c (42.72)c
Diluted 13.99c (42.72)c
Earnings/(loss) per share from continued operations:
Basic 11.81c (44.64)c
Diluted 11.80c (44.64)c
Earnings per share from discontinued operations:
Basic 2.19c 1.92c
Diluted 2.19c 1.92c
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91
14 Operating profit
Operating profit (from continuing operations) is stated after charging/recognising:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Depreciation 22,186 23,664
Auditor’s remuneration – audit services 490 490
Auditor’s remuneration – taxation and related services 360 234
Auditor’s remuneration – other services
1
 1,267 620
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings 17,156 17,920
Provision for impairment of trade receivable 3,030 6,316
1 Other services in 2013 and 2012 mainly relates to debt restructuring.
15 Financial instruments by category
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below:
Group
Assets as per balance sheet
Loans and
receivables
USD’000
Assets at fair 
value through
profit or loss
USD’000
Total
USD’000
31 December 2013
Derivative financial instruments (Note 28) – 161 161
Trade receivables – net of provision (Note 21) 150,446 – 150,446
Other receivables excluding prepayments 8,095 – 8,095
Due from related parties (Note 24) 197 – 197
Cash and bank balances (Note 22) 344,573 – 344,573
503,311 161 503,472
31 December 2012
Derivative financial instruments (Note 28) – 1,152 1,152
Trade receivables – net of provision (Note 21) 107,225 – 107,225
Other receivables excluding prepayments 9,830 – 9,830
Due from related parties (Note 24) 356 – 356
Cash and bank balances (Note 22) 263,439 – 263,439
380,850 1,152 382,002
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Liabilities at amortised cost
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Trade payables (Note 29) 31,247 41,007
Accruals (Note 29) 203,497 217,632
Provision for warranty costs (Note 30) 5,400 –
Borrowings (Note 31) 160,751 159,323
400,895 417,962 92 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Company
Assets as per balance sheet
Loans and receivables
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Cash at bank 103 200
Due from related parties (Note 24) 7,631 5,138
Other receivables 369 50
8,103 5,388
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Liabilities at amortised cost
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Due to related parties (Note 24) 12,334 8,367
Accruals 29 628
12,363 8,995
Credit quality of financial assets
Group
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to historical information about 
counterparty default rates:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Trade receivables
Group A 10,425 42,562
Group B 96,257 15,274
Group C 2,941 7,381
109,623 65,217
Group A – Last six months average debtor days is less than 45.
Group B – Last six months average debtor days is between 46 and 90.
Group C – Last six months average debtor days is above 90.
Derivative financial instruments
The credit quality of derivative financial instruments is disclosed in Note 28.
None of the financial assets that is fully performing has been renegotiated in the last year.
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Cash at bank and short-term bank deposits 
Fitch’s ratings
AA- 234,283 128,489
A+ 100,245 58,096
A 8,977 75,994
A- – 53
B+ 280 –
BBB+ 117 –
BBB- 14 –
Not rated 188 184
344,104 262,816
Cash in hand 469 623
Cash at bank and in hand (Note 22) 344,573 263,439
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
15 Financial instruments by category continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93
Company
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Due from related parties (Note 24) 7,631 5,138
Due from related parties is neither past due nor impaired.
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Cash at bank 
Fitch’s ratings
A 103 200
16 Property, plant and equipment
Buildings &
infrastructure
USD’000
Operating
equipment
USD’000
Fixtures
and office
equipment
USD’000
Motor
vehicles
USD’000
Capital
work-in-
progress
USD’000
Total
USD’000
Cost
At 1 January 2012 95,015 105,657 14,038 4,925 34,962 254,597
Additions 5,952 5,832 1,330 189 3,440 16,743
Exchange differences 8 28 3 16 – 55
Transfers 8,376 17,735 628 (246) (26,493) –
Disposed as a part of disposal of a subsidiary – (1,055) – – – (1,055)
Other disposals (47) (63) – (213) – (323)
At 31 December 2012 109,304 128,134 15,999 4,671 11,909 270,017
Additions 5,547 2,054 792 300 3,314 12,007
Transfers 10,359 416 314 13 (11,102) –
Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale (Note 23) (1,303) (10,030) (871) (1,577) (432) (14,213)
Other disposals (675) (3,721) (27) (885) – (5,308)
At 31 December 2013 123,232 116,853 16,207 2,522 3,689 262,503
Depreciation
At 1 January 2012 15,412 51,021 9,853 2,955 – 79,241
Charge for the year 6,186 16,420 2,350 510 – 25,466
Exchange differences (29) 29 5 2 – 7
Disposed as a part of disposal of a subsidiary – (280) – – – (280)
Other disposals (18) (54) – (194) – (266)
At 31 December 2012 21,551 67,136 12,208 3,273 – 104,168
Charge for the year 6,542 14,413 2,502 527 – 23,984
Accumulated depreciation of disposal group classified as held 
for sale (Note 23) (465) (7,191) (716) (1,021) – (9,393)
Other disposals (356) (3,544) (24) (655) – (4,579)
At 31 December 2013 27,272 70,814 13,970 2,124 – 114,180
Net book amount 
At 31 December 2013 95,960 46,039 2,237 398 3,689 148,323
At 31 December 2012 87,753 60,998 3,791 1,398 11,909 165,849
Buildings have been constructed on land, leased on a renewable basis from various Government Authorities. The remaining lives of the leases 
range between four to 20 years. The Group has renewed these land leases upon expiry in the past and its present intention is to continue to 
use the land and renew these leases for the foreseeable future.
Property, plant and equipment amounting to USD 140 million are under lien against the bank facilities (Note 31).
During the year, the Group has capitalised borrowing costs amounting to USD 0.5 million (2012: USD 0.7 million) on qualifying assets. 
Borrowing costs were capitalised at the weighted average rate of its general borrowings of 5.6% (2012: 5%).
A depreciation expense of USD 17 million (2012: USD 18.6 million) has been charged to cost of sales; USD 5.2 million (2012: USD 5 million) to 
general and administrative expenses (Notes 6 and 9) and USD 1.8 million (2012: USD 1.9 million) is presented within profit for the year from 
discontinued operations (Note 23).
15 Financial instruments by category continued 94 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
17 Intangible assets
Goodwill 
USD’000
Trade name 
USD’000
Customer 
relationships
USD’000
Leasehold rights
USD’000
Softwares 
USD’000
Work-in- 
progress 
USD’000
Total
USD’000
Cost
At 1 January 2012 180,539 22,335 19,323 9,872 – 2,991 235,060
Additions – – – – – 1,839 1,839
Disposal/write-off – – – (1,534) – (3,294) (4,828)
Transfers – – – – 1,536 (1,536) –
At 31 December 2012 180,539 22,335 19,323 8,338 1,536 – 232,071
Additions – – – – – 2,615 2,615
At 31 December 2013 180,539 22,335 19,323 8,338 1,536 2,615 234,686
Amortisation
At 1 January 2012 – 1,303 2,214 682 – – 4,199
Charge for the year (Note 9) – 2,826 4,831 706 171 – 8,534
Disposal/write-off – – – (489) – – (489)
At 31 December 2012 – 4,129 7,045 899 171 – 12,244
Charge for the year (Note 9) – 2,641 4,831 579 1,365 – 9,416
At 31 December 2013 – 6,770 11,876 1,478 1,536 – 21,660
Net book amount
At 31 December 2013 180,539 15,565 7,447 6,860 – 2,615 213,026
At 31 December 2012 180,539 18,206 12,278 7,439 1,365 – 219,827
Trade name represents the expected future economic benefit to be derived from the continued use of the MIS trade name acquired through 
the acquisition of MIS.
Customer relationships represent the expected future economic benefits to be derived from the existing relationship with key MIS customers 
acquired through the acquisition of MIS.
Leasehold rights represent a favourable operating right acquired upon the acquisition of MIS and existing lease hold rights in the books of 
MIS on acquisition of Rig Metals LLC in 2008. The value of the intangible assets has been determined by calculating the present value of the 
expected future economic benefits to arise from the favourable lease terms (12 to 20 years).
Work-in-progress represents the cost incurred towards the implementation of a new Enterprise Resource Planning software (“ERP software”). 
During 2012, the implementation of the old ERP software was discontinued and the usable portion of USD 1.5 million was transferred to 
software, and amortised until 31 December 2013.
Management reviews the business performance based on the type of business (Note 5). Goodwill is monitored by the management at the 
operating segment level. Goodwill of USD 180.5 million arising due to the acquisition of MIS has been allocated to the CGU
1
 within Segment A.
The recoverable amount of CGU
1
 has been determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates. 
These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the management, which are based on past 
performance and management’s expectations of market development, covering a three-year period. Cash flows beyond the three-year 
period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rate stated below. The growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate 
for the business in which the CGU operates. The discount rate used is pre-tax and reflect specific risks to the relevant cash generating unit.
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are as follows:
2013 2012
Revenue growth rate
1
5% 5%
Discount rate
2
11.48% 12.96%
Net profit rate
3
 3% 3%
Terminal value growth rate 3.25% 3.25%
1 Year on year beyond budget period.
2 Pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
3 Net profit percentage on revenue beyond budget period.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95
18 Investment in subsidiaries
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Balance at 1 January 591,732 970,282
Share-based payments to employees of subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 2 1,049 1,149
Impaired during the year – (379,699)
Balance at 31 December 592,781 591,732
The Company granted free shares/share options to employees of its subsidiaries under various plans (Note 8). These shares and options have 
a vesting period of 18 to 36 months. Accordingly, the proportionate share-based charge for the year of USD 1 million (2012: USD 1.1 million) 
has been recorded as an increase in investment in subsidiaries with a corresponding credit to retained earnings.
The recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiaries is determined based on value-in-use calculations (Note 4). Based on these 
calculations, an impairment charge of USD 379.7 million with respect to the investment in LEL is recognised during 2012 in the other reserve 
(Note 26) in the separate balance sheet of Company. This relates to the impairment of investment in LEL which was accounted for using the 
uniting of interest method for business combinations.
19 Investments accounted for using the equity method
Investment in joint ventures
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Balance at 1 January 4,679 3,870
Dividend received during the year (174) (244)
Share of profit for the year 1,110 1,053
5,615 4,679
The Group through its acquisition of MIS in July 2011 has gained joint control over the existing joint ventures of MIS.
During 2012, the Group entered a joint venture agreement through its subsidiary Lamprell Sharjah WLL with Saudi Arabia based Shoaibi 
Group, Al Yusr Townsend and Bottum L.L.C., to form Lamprell Arabia Ltd (“LAR”). LAR will be based in Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia and will 
engage in the refurbishment of onshore and offshore rigs and building new land drilling rigs. Once in existence, the Group will hold 65% 
interest in LAR. As at the balance sheet date, LAR’s formation was in progress and there has been no outflow from the Group in the form 
of investment.
Details of the Group’s joint ventures during the year and at the balance sheet date is as follows:
Name of the joint venture Place of incorporation and operation Proportion of ownership Status
MIS Arabia Co. Ltd. (“MISA”)* Jubail, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 30% Operational
* Production, manufacturing and erection of heat exchangers, pressure vessels, tanks, structural steel, piping and other related activities.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Group’s joint ventures is set out below:
MIS Arabia Co. Ltd.
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Total current assets 25,172 24,988
Total non-current assets 6,701 8,241
Total current liabilities (10,336) (14,878)
Total non-current liabilities (1,836) (1,500)
Net assets 19,701 16,851
Group’s share of joint venture’s net assets – net of Group’s share of income tax 5,615 4,679
Revenue 40,328 40,117
Expenses (35,537) (35,510)
Profit 4,791 4,607
Group’s share of joint venture’s net profit/(loss) – net of Group’s share of income tax 1,110 1,053
Maritime Industrial Services Arabia Co. Ltd. is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares. 96 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The Group has the following contingencies and commitments relating to Group’s interest in the joint venture.
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Letters of Credit 52 14
Letters of guarantee 2,296 3,517
Operating lease commitments 210 203
20 Inventories
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Raw materials and consumables 13,403 15,621
Less: Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories (1,718) (2,396)
11,685 13,225
21 Trade and other receivables
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Trade receivables 158,161 115,222
Other receivables and prepayments 16,068 17,952
Advances to suppliers 811 3,131
Receivables from a related party (Note 24) 197 356
175,237 136,661
Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables (7,715) (7,997)
167,522 128,664
Amounts due from customers on contracts 57,557 141,165
Contract work in progress (Note 2.2) 102,239 128,520
327,318 398,349
Amounts due from customers on contracts comprise:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Costs incurred to date 618,302 866,605
Attributable profits 113,562 65,395
731,864 932,000
Less: Progress billings (674,307) (790,835)
57,557 141,165
An analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Fully performing 109,623 65,217
Past due but not impaired 40,823 42,008
Impaired 7,715 7,997
158,161 115,222
Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are generally not considered impaired. At 31 December 2013, trade receivables of 
USD 40.8 million (2012: USD 42 million) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of independent customers for whom 
there is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Up to three months 18,456 25,111
Three to six months 10,311 10,041
Over six months 12,056 6,856
40,823 42,008
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
19 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97
At 31 December 2013, trade receivables of USD 7.7 million (2012: USD 8 million) were impaired and provided for. The individually impaired 
receivables are over six months (2012: over six months) old and mainly relate to customers who are in a difficult economic situation.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are primarily denominated in US Dollars or UAE Dirhams, which is pegged 
to the US Dollar.
Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
At 1 January 7,997 3,109
Provision for impairment of trade receivables 3,030 7,668
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (632) (2,745)
Amounts recovered (1,226) (35)
Reclassified as asset held for sale (Note 23) (1,454) –
At 31 December 7,715 7,997
The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in general and administrative expenses in the 
consolidated income statement (Note 9). Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no expectation 
of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables mentioned above.
The carrying value of trade receivables approximates to their fair value.
22 Cash and bank balances
Group
 2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Cash at bank and on hand 48,738 148,185
Term deposits and margin deposits 295,835 115,254
Cash and bank balances 344,573 263,439
Less: Margin/short-term deposits under lien (16,500) (72,936)
Less: Deposits with an original maturity of more than three months (52,594) (42,318)
Less: Bank overdraft – (21,813)
Cash and cash equivalents (for the purpose of the cash flow statement) 275,479 126,372
At 31 December 2013, the cash at bank and term deposits were held with 15 (2012: 18) banks. The effective interest rate on short-term 
deposits was 0.54% (2012: 0.88%) per annum. Margin and short-term deposits of USD 16.5 million (2012: USD 72.9 million) and deposits 
with an original maturity of more than three months amounting to USD 50.6 million (2012: USD 42.3 million) are held under lien against 
guarantees issued by the banks (Note 36).
Company
Cash at bank comprises of cash held with one bank.
23 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
During the year, the Group decided to dispose one of the subsidiaries (Inspec) which, at the balance sheet date, meet the criteria for assets 
held for sales and discontinued operations as per IFRS 5.
The main elements of the cash flow of the Inspec are as follows:
Year ended 31 December
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Operating cash flows 6,336 3,179
Investing cash flows (1,645) (2,205)
Financing cash flows (4,753) (3)
Total cash flows (62) 971
21 Trade and other receivables continued 98 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The assets held for sale related to Inspec discontinued operations are as follows:
2013
USD’000
Property, plant and equipment (Note 16) 4,820
Inventories 460
Trade and other receivables (net of provision for impairment of trade receivables) 16,922
Cash and bank balances 1,641
23,843
The liabilities classified as held for sale related to Inspec discontinued operations are as follows:
2013
USD’000
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits 1,487
Trade and other payables 3,345
4,832
Analysis of the result of discontinued operations related to Inspec is as follows:
Year ended 31 December
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Revenue 20,842 19,336
Cost of sales (13,821) (11,834)
General and administrative expenses (1,421) (2,546)
Other gains/losses – net 110 50
Finance costs – net (3) (3)
Profit from discontinued operations 5,707 5,003
Re-measurement of post-employment benefit obligations (260) (49)
Total comprehensive income arising from discontinued operations 5,447 4,954
The contingent liabilities related to Inspec discontinued operations are as follows:
2013
USD’000
Operating lease commitments 107
Capital commitments for purchase of operating equipment 127
Bank guarantees 23
24 Related party balances and transactions
Related parties comprise LHL (which owns 33% of the issued share capital of the Company), certain legal shareholders of the Group 
companies, Directors and key management personnel of the Group and entities controlled by Directors and key management personnel. Key 
management includes the directors (executive and non-executive) and members of the executive committee. Related parties, for the purpose 
of the parent company financial statements, also include subsidiaries owned directly or indirectly and joint ventures. Other than those 
disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group entered into the following significant transactions during the year with related 
parties at prices and on terms agreed between the related parties:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Key management compensation 7,074 8,482
Legal and professional services 1,221 609
Sales to joint ventures 416 443
Purchases from joint ventures 249 50
Sponsorship fees and commissions paid to legal shareholders of subsidiaries (Note 1) 382 356
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
23 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99
Key management compensation comprises:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 6,875 5,127
Share-based payments – value of services provided – 1,513
Post-employment benefits 199 124
Termination benefits – 1,718
7,074 8,482
The terms of the employment contracts of the key management include reciprocal notice periods of between six to twelve months.
Due from/due to related parties
Due from related parties
Group
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
MIS Arabia Co. Ltd (current) (Note 21) 197 356
Company
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
MIS
1
7,500 5,000
EBT
2
131 138
7,631 5,138
1 Primarily comprises a receivable in respect of management fees charged by the Company.
2 Includes USD 50,688 due in respect of payments made for treasury shares acquired by EBT on behalf of the Group.
Further, the Company has provided performance guarantees on behalf of its subsidiary. These guarantees, issued in the normal course of 
business, are outstanding at the year end and no outflow of resources embodying economic benefits in relation to these guarantees is 
expected by the Company.
Dividends paid by the Company during the year 2012 include an amount of USD 6.9 million in respect of shares held by LHL, a company 
controlled by Steven Lamprell who is a member of the key management.
Due to related parties
Company
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
LEL
1
12,331 8,367
Inspec
1
3 –
12,334 8,367
1 Primarily comprises payables in respect of payments made on behalf of the Company.
25 Share capital
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares
Company
Equity share capital
Number USD’000
At 1 January 2012, 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013 260,363,101 23,552
The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 400 million shares (2012: 400 million shares) with a par value of 5 pence per share  
(2012: 5 pence per share).
During 2013, there has been no new issuance or acquisition of its shares by the Company on its own or through any other Subsidiary. 
Treasury shares held at 31 December 2013 are 14,686 shares (2012: 14,686 shares). The Company has the right to reissue these shares at a 
later date. These shares will be issued on the vesting of the awards granted under free shares/share options/performance share plan to 
certain employees of the Group (Note 8).
24 Related party balances and transactions continued 100 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
During 2012, EBT acquired 170,000 shares of the Company. The total amount paid to acquire the shares was USD 0.95 million and this 
amount has been deducted from the consolidated retained earnings. During 2012, 605,048 shares amounting to USD 2.1 million were 
issued to employees on vesting of the free shares and 14,686 shares were held as treasury shares.
During 2011, the Company issued new ordinary shares of 60,083,792 under a fully underwritten rights issue. The new ordinary shares were 
issued at a price of 232 pence per share which amounted to net proceeds of USD 216.6 million. The differential between the issue price of 
232 pence per share and the par value of 5 pence per share amounting to USD 211.8 million was accounted for as share premium which is 
net of transaction costs amounting to USD 9.3 million.
26 Other reserves
Group
Legal
reserve
USD’000
Merger 
reserve
USD’000
Translation 
 reserve
USD’000
Hedging 
 reserve
USD’000
Total
USD’000
At 1 January 2012 35 (22,422) (77) (1,180) (23,644)
Currency translation differences – – 334 – 334
Cash flow hedges – – – 1,180 1,180
Transfer from retained earnings 61 – – – 61
At 31 December 2012 96 (22,422) 257 – (22,069)
Currency translation differences – – (66) – (66)
Transfer from retained earnings 2 – – – 2
At 31 December 2013 98 (22,422) 191 – (22,133)
Legal reserve
The Legal reserve relates to subsidiaries (other than the subsidiaries incorporated in free zones) in the UAE and the State of Qatar. In 
accordance with the laws of the respective countries, the Group has established a statutory reserve by appropriating 10% of the profit for 
the year of such companies. Such transfers are required to be made until the reserve is equal to, at least, 50% (UAE) and 33.3% (State of 
Qatar) of the issued share capital of such companies. The legal reserve is not available for distribution.
Merger reserve
On 11 September 2006, LEL acquired 100% of the legal and beneficial ownership of Inspec from LHL for a consideration of USD 4 million. 
This acquisition has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method and the difference between the purchase consideration 
(USD 4 million) and the share capital of Inspec (USD 0.2 million) has been recorded in the Merger reserve.
On 25 September 2006, the Company entered into a share for share exchange agreement with LEL and LHL under which it acquired 
100% of the 49,003 shares of LEL from LHL in consideration for the issue to LHL of 200,000,000 shares of the Company. This acquisition 
has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method and the difference between the nominal value of shares issued by the 
Company (USD 18.7 million) and the nominal value of LEL shares acquired (USD 0.1 million) has been recorded in the Merger reserve.
Company
Other reserve
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
At 1 January 329,153 708,852
Impairment during the year (Note 18) – (379,699)
At 31 December 329,153 329,153
The other reserve of USD 329.2 million represents the difference between the cost of the investment in LEL (USD 727.5 million) and the 
nominal value of share capital issued by the Company to acquire LEL (USD 18.7 million), reduced by the impairment charge of 
USD 379.7 million recorded in 2012. The other reserve is not available for distribution however this reserve can be utilised to record 
impairment of investment in LEL (Note 18).
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
25 Share capital continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101
27 Provision for employees’ end of service benefits
In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligations at 
31 December 2013 and 2012 using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees’ end of service benefits payable under the 
Labour Laws of the countries in which the Group operates. Under this method, an assessment has been made of an employee’s 
expected service life with the Group and the expected basic salary at the date of leaving the service. The obligation for end of service 
benefit is not funded.
The movement in the employees’ end of service benefit liability over the year is as follows:
Group
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
At 1 January 38,095 39,597
Current service cost 5,287 5,384
Interest cost 1,198 1,582
Actuarial losses/(gains) 737 (703)
Benefits paid (7,784) (7,765)
Liabilities of disposal group classified as held for sale (Note 23) (1,487) –
At 31 December 36,046 38,095
Company
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
At 1 January 918 821
Current service cost 106 126
Interest cost 15 36
Actuarial losses/(gains) 19 (65)
Benefits paid (983) –
At 31 December 75 918
Group
The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement are as follows:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Current service cost 5,006 5,275
Interest cost 1,160 1,572
Total (included in staff costs) (Note 10) 6,166 6,847
Of the total charge, USD 5.4 million (2012: USD 6 million) and USD 0.8 million (2012: USD 0.9 million) are included in cost of sales and 
general and administrative expenses (Note 6 and 9 respectively).
Company
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Current service cost 106 126
Interest cost 15 36
Total (included in staff costs) 121 162
The above charge of USD 0.1 million (2012: USD 0.1 million) is included in general and administrative expenses.
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows:
2013 2012
Discount rate 4.25% 3%
Future salary increase:
Management and administrative employees 3% 2.50%
Yard employees 2.50% 2% 102 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Due to the nature of the benefit, which is a lump-sum payable on exit for any cause, a combined single decrement rate has been used as follows:
Percentage of employees at each 
age exiting the plan per year
Age 2013 2012
Yard employees: 
20–29 years 16% 15%
30–44 years 10% 10%
45–54 years 6% 7%
55–59 years 6% 2%
60 years and above 100% 100%
Management and administrative employees:
20–29 years 8% 15%
30–44 years 6% 10%
45–54 years 4% 7%
55–59 years 1% 2%
60 years and above 100% 100%
Executive directors:
35–39 years 10% 10%
40–64 years 7% 7%
65 years and above 100% 100%
28 Derivative financial instruments
2013 2012
Credit
rating
Notional 
contract 
amount
USD’000
Assets
USD’000
Liabilities
USD’000
Notional 
contract
amount
USD’000
Assets
USD’000
Liabilities
USD’000
Derivatives held at fair value through  
profit or loss AA- 1,654 161 – 19,203 1,152 –
Total 1,654 161 – 19,203 1,152 –
During 2012, the Group entered into a forward contract to sell USD for Euros. This derivative did not qualify for hedge accounting and is carried 
at fair value through profit or loss. The notional principal amount at the date of inception of these contracts was Euro 20.8 million. This contract 
matures in various instalments within 22 months from the date of inception. The fair value at the 31 December 2013 of this derivative was USD 
0.2 million. The fair value gain on derivative is recorded in “other gains/(losses) – net” in the consolidated income statement.
This risk is monitored on an ongoing basis with reference to the current fair value, a proportion of the notional amount of the contracts and 
the liquidity of the market. To control the level of credit risk taken, the Group assesses counterparties, using the same techniques as for 
other counterparties.
The derivative financial instruments are gross settled and the maturity profile based on the year end rates of the expected undiscounted 
amounts payable and receivable at 31 December is as follows:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Receivable 1,654 19,203
Payable 1,442 17,487
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued
27 Provision for employees’ end of service benefits continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 103
29 Trade and other payables
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Trade payables 31,247 41,007
Accruals 203,497 217,632
Amounts due to customers on contracts 189,940 204,234
Dividend payable
1
 (Note 33) 18 18
424,702 462,891
Amounts due to customers on contracts comprise:
Progress billings 1,116,466 573,997
Less: Cost incurred to date (883,808) (361,348)
Less: Recognised profits (42,718) (8,415)
189,940 204,234
1 The dividend payable represents an amount held by the EBT in respect of treasury shares. This dividend will be paid by the EBT to the employees upon completion of the 
vesting period.
30 Provision for warranty costs
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
At 1 January – –
Charged during the year 5,400 –
At 31 December 5,400 –
Warranty costs charged during the year relates to management’s assessment of potential claims under contractual warranty provisions.
31 Borrowings
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Bank overdrafts (Note 22) – 21,813
Bank term loans 160,751 137,510
160,751 159,323
The bank borrowings are repayable as follows:
Current (less than one year) 56,493 159,323
Non-current (two to three years) 104,258 –
160,751 159,323
At 31 December 2013, the Group has banking facilities of USD 781 million (2012: USD 1,022 million) with commercial banks. The facilities 
include bank overdrafts, letters of guarantees, letters of credit and short-term loans.
Bank facilities are secured by liens over term deposits of USD 67.1 million (2012: USD 115.3 million) (Note 22), the Group’s counter 
indemnities for guarantees issued on their behalf, the Group’s corporate guarantees, letter of undertakings, letter of credit payment 
guarantees, cash margin held against letters of guarantees, shares of certain subsidiaries, certain property, plant and equipment, movable 
assets, leasehold rights for land and certain contract related receivables.
During the year, the Group secured a new set of debt facilities amounting to USD 181 million with revised covenants. This new arrangement 
significantly simplifies the Company’s lending structure and rationalises the covenants to a common basis. The Group has drawn down  
USD 160 million out of these facilities, which is used to repay the old debts. The borrowings are stated net of the unamortised arrangement 
fees and other transaction costs of USD 1.2 million (2012: Nil) and accrued interest of USD 1.9 million (2012: USD 0.7 million).
The banking facilities relating to overdrafts and revolving facilities carry interest at LIBOR +6% to 8% (2012: three to six months LIBOR/EIBOR 
+2% to 4%).
The carrying amounts of borrowings in the year approximated to their fair value and were denominated in US Dollars or UAE Dirhams, which 
is pegged to the US Dollar.
32 Profit of the Company
The profit of USD 0.2 million (2012: USD 27 million) in respect of the Company is included in these consolidated financial statements. 104 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
33 Dividends
There were no dividends declared or paid during 2013. At 31 December 2013, unpaid dividends amounted to USD 18,000 (Note 29) and 
were in relation to the shares held by EBT.
During 2012 (on 23 March 2012), the Board of Directors of the Company approved a final dividend of USD 20.8 million (8 US cents per share) 
relating to the year ended 31 December 2011 which was paid on 22 June 2012. At 31 December 2012, unpaid dividends amounted to 
USD 18,000 (Note 29) and were in relation to the shares held by EBT.
34 Exceptional items
Items that are material either because of their size or their nature are presented within their relevant consolidated income statement 
category, but highlighted separately in the consolidated income statement. The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a 
better picture of the Group’s underlying performance.
An analysis of the nature of expense is as follows:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Refinancing expenses 8,414 –
Regulatory fine – 3,720
Legal fees – 1,000
8,414 4,720
During 2013, exceptional items relates to the expenses incurred during the process of covenant waivers and refinancing negotiations with 
lenders amounting to USD 8.4 million, which is shown under finance costs (Note 11).
During 2012, exceptional items relate to a regulatory fine recorded amounting to GBP 2.43 million (USD equivalent 3.72 million converted at 
an exchange rate of USD 1.53 per GBP) and related legal expenses of USD 1 million, which is shown under general and administrative 
expenses (Note 9).
35 Commitments
(a) Operating lease commitments
The Group leases land and staff accommodation under various operating lease agreements. The remaining lease terms of the majority of the 
leases are between four to 20 years and are renewable at mutually agreed terms. The future minimum lease payments payable under 
operating leases are as follows:
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Not later than one year 7,528 8,791
Later than one year but not later than five years 11,625 13,136
Later than five years 42,002 43,907
61,155 65,834
(b) Other commitments
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Letters of credit for purchase of materials and operating equipment 1,062 20
Capital commitments for construction of facilities 2,241 5,295
Capital commitments for purchase of operating equipment and computer software 1,954 1,163
36 Bank guarantees
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
Performance/bid bonds 115,140 159,007
Advance payment, labour visa and payment guarantees 321,052 446,235
436,192 605,242
The various bank guarantees, as above, were issued by the Group’s bankers in the ordinary course of business. Certain guarantees are 
secured by cash margins, assignments of receivables from some customers and, in respect of guarantees provided by banks to the Group 
companies, they have been secured by the parent company and certain Group company guarantees. In the opinion of the Directors, the 
above bank guarantees are unlikely to result in any liability to the Group.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 105
37 Cash generated from operating activities
Year ended 31 December
Notes
2013
USD’000
2012
USD’000
(restated)
Operating activities
Profit/(loss) before income tax including discontinued operations 37,534 (110,386)
Adjustments for:
Share-based payments – value of services provided 1,049 2,348
Depreciation 16 23,984 25,466
Amortisation of intangible assets 17 9,416 8,534
Share of profit from investment in joint ventures 19 (1,110) (1,053)
Provision for warranty costs 30 5,400 –
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 362 (54)
Fair value loss/(gain) on financial asset at fair value through profit or loss – 195
Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories 20 (678) 139
Provision for impairment of trade receivables, net of amounts recovered 21 1,172 4,888
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits 27 6,485 6,966
Gain on disposal of a subsidiary 12 – (853)
Gain on settlement of receivable from a related party – (4,265)
Gain on derivative financial instruments (501) (722)
Gain on settlement of held-to-maturity investment – (120)
Loss on write-off of intangible assets 9 – 4,339
Finance costs 11,23 23,172 22,400
Finance income 11 (975) (867)
Operating cash flows before payment of employees’ end of service benefits and  
changes in working capital 105,310 (43,045)
Payment of employees’ end of service benefits 27 (7,784) (7,765)
Changes in working capital:
Inventories before movement in provision 1,758 (1,308)
Proceeds from a related party – 11,290
Derivative financial instruments 1,492 –
Trade and other receivables before movement in provision for impairment of trade receivables 52,937 265,516
Trade and other payables, excluding movement in dividend payable (34,844) 25,974
Cash generated from operating activities 118,869 250,662
38 Events after balance sheet date
On 3 March 2014, the Group has completed the sale of Inspec to Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited (“Intertek”) for a cash 
consideration of USD 66.2 million. This transaction triggered a mandatory prepayment clause as per the debt facility agreement and 
accordingly an amount of USD 49.5 million was repaid on 8 March 2014.
The Group has provided a warranty to Intertek of USD 4.75 million with respect to the recovery of certain overdue trade receivables. 106 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
“AED” – Arab Emirates Dirham 
“AGM” – Annual General Meeting
“AIM” – Alternative Investment Market – a market operated by 
London Stock Exchange Plc
“API” – American Petroleum Institute
“ASME” – American Society of Mechanical Engineers
“Board” or “Directors” – the Board of Directors of the Company
“Bn” – Billion
“CBL” – Cleopatra Barges Limited 
“CEO” – Chief Executive Officer
“CFO” – Chief Financial Officer 
“CGU” – Cash Generating Unit
“CSR” – Corporate Social Responsibility
“Code” – UK Corporate Governance Code 2012
“Company” – Lamprell plc 
“E&C” – Engineering & Construction
“EBITDA” – Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and 
Amortisation
“EBT” – Lamprell plc Employee Benefit Trust
“EPC” – Engineering, Procurement and Construction
“EPS” – Earnings Per Share
“ERP” – Enterprise Resource Planning
“ESOP” – Lamprell plc Executive Share Option Plan
“FPSO” – Floating, Production, Storage and Offloading
“FCA” – Financial Conduct Authority
“FTSE” – Financial Times Stock Exchange index
“FZCo” – Free Zone Company
“GBP” – Great Britain Pound
“GIC” – Global Investment Co. Ltd. Inc
“GMAC” – Global Management and Acquisition Co. Ltd Inc
“Group” – The Company and its subsidiaries
“HSE” – Health, Safety and Environment 
“lAS” – International Accounting Standards
“IFRIC” – International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee interpretation
“IFRS” – International Financial Reporting Standards
“INSPEC” – International Inspection Services Limited
“ISO” – International Organisation for Standards
“JIL” – Jebel All Investments Limited
“Labour Law” – UAE Labour Law (Federal Law No.8 of 1980  
(as amended))
“Lamprell” – the Company and its subsidiary undertakings
“LD” – Lamprell Dubai LLC
“LE FZCO” – Lamprell Energy FZCO
“LEL” – Lamprell Energy Limited
“LHL” – Lamprell Holdings Limited
“LIH” – Lamprell Investment Holdings Limited
“LIT” – Litwin PEL Co. LLC
“LS” – Lamprell Sharjah WLL
“LSE” – London Stock Exchange Limited 
“LTI” – Lost Time incident
“m” – Million
“Mercer” – Mercer Consulting Middle East Limited
“MIAS” – Maritime International Agency Services Ltd
“MIL” – Maurlis International Ltd. Inc
“MIS” – Maritime Industrial Services Co. Ltd. Inc.
“MISA” – Maritime Industrial Services Arabia Co. Ltd.
“MISCLP” – Maritime Industrial Services Co. Ltd. & Partners
“MISQWLL” – MIS Qatar LLC
“MOL” – Maritime Offshore Limited
“MOCL” – Maritime Offshore Construction Limited
“MOS” – Millennium Offshore Services
“NDC” – National Drilling Company 
“NED” – Non-Executive Director 
“O&M” – Operations & Maintenance
“OHSAS” – Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series
“PSP” – Lamprell plc 2008 Performance Share Plan
“QA/QC” – Quality Assurance, Quality Control
“RIM” – Rig Metals LLC
“TSR” – Total Shareholder Return
“UAE” – the Federation of the United Arab Emirates
“United States” or “US” – the United States of America
“USD” or “US$” – US Dollar
“US GAAP” – Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
Definitions Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107
Notes 108 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes  Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Lamprell plc
Registered Office:
Fort Anne
Douglas
Isle of Man
IM1 5PD
Operations:
PO Box 33455
Dubai
United Arab Emirates
Tel: +971 6 528 2323
Fax: +971 6 528 4325
Email: lamprell@lamprell.com
www.lamprell.com
