 LogicaCMG plc
Registered office:
Stephenson House
75 Hampstead Road
London NW1 2PL
t: +44 (0) 20 7637 9111
f: +44 (0) 20 7468 7006
Report and accounts 2002     LogicaCMG
www.logicacmg.com Report and accounts 2002  
“
We selected LogicaCMG because it has a strong track
record of delivering innovative customer care and billing
solutions on time and to budget. We consider ourselves
to have the highest standards of customer service and
therefore demand the same from our partners.
”
Anders B Ohlsson, Vodafone Sweden Our mission is to help leading organisations worldwide achieve their
business objectives through the innovative delivery of information technology
and business process solutions.
LogicaCMG is a global solutions company providing management and IT consultancy, systems
integration and outsourcing services. With additional expertise in wireless technology, the
company supports clients across diverse markets including telecoms, financial services, energy
and utilities, industry, distribution and transport and the public sector.  
Formed in December 2002 through the merger of Logica and CMG, the company employs around 
21 ,000 people in offices across 34 countries and has nearly 40 years of experience in the IT services arena.  
LogicaCMG is listed in both London and Amsterdam.
Highlights 1
Chairman’s statement 2-3
Chief executive’s review 4-7
A global team 8-9
Business overview 10-19
Our customers 20-21
Financial review 22-31
Directors’ biographies 32-33
Report of the directors 34-37
Remuneration committee 38-45
Corporate governance 46-47
Independent auditors’ report 48
Financial statements 49–73
Primary financial statements
in euros 74–76
Financial calendar 77
LogicaCMG worldwide 78-79
Client selection 80
Contents
Our mission Five year record 12 months 12 months 12 months 12 months 12 months
ended 31 ended 31 ended 31 ended 31 ended 31 
December 1998 December 1999 December 2000 December 2001 December 2002
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
T urnover 992.9 1 ,379.0 1 ,759.5 2, 148.8 1,82 7.4
Operating profit/(loss)
Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 107 .7 166.0 238.3 21 1 .2 121 .7
Goodwill amortisation and exceptional items (2. 1) (14.0) (32.7) (658.6) (845.4)
105.6 152.0 205.6 (447.4) (723.7)
Share of associates’ operating profit 0.7 0.9 0. 1 - -
Net interest 3. 1 (1 .2) (1 .7) (1 .5) (8. 1)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before tax 109.4 151.7 204.0 (448.9) (73 1 .8)
T ax on profit on ordinary activities (35.4) (51 .4) (71 .4) (53.7) (20.9)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities after tax 74.0 100.3 132.6 (502.6) (752.7)
Minority interests - (0.3) (1 .0) (3.3) (0.8)
Ordinary dividends (16.8) (23.9) (34.8) (41 .8) (42.5)
Retained profit/(loss) for the year 57.2 76.1 96.8 (547.7) (796.0)
T urnover growth/(decline) 39% 28% 22% (1 5)%
Closing number of employees 1 5,025 17 , 173 23,682 25,059 23,097 
Operating profit margin ** 10.8% 12.0% 13.5% 9.8% 6.7%
*Basic earnings per share** (pence) 12.4 18. 1 24.2 20.2 10.9 
*The prior years’ earnings per share comparatives have been restated to reflect share splits, bonus issues and rights issues.
**Before goodwill, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
Five year summary
The financial summary includes selected information restated on a 12 months to December basis, which has not been subject to audit.
Highlights
Revenue by market sector
2002 2001
£1,827.4 MILLION £2, 148.8 MILLION
LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Highlights 1
Telecoms (incl. wireless
networks)
2002 £478. 1M (26%)
2001 £723.9M (34%)
Industry , distribution
& transport
2002 £370.0M (20%)
2001 £380.6M (18%)
Public sector
2002 £343.9M (1 9%)
2001 £281 .0M (13%)
Energy & utilities
2002 £290.7M (16%)
2001 £320.4M (1 5%)
Financial services
2002 £344.7M (1 9%)
2001 £442.9M (20%) 2 Chairman’s statement LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
This is my first statement as non-executive chairman for
LogicaCMG, following the merger of Logica and CMG. It
reports on the combined performance of the two previously
separate companies, for the six months ended 31 December
2002, and looks forward to the calendar year 2003. 
In 2002, the marketplace for IT services remained difficult
against a backdrop of economic slowdown in most global
economies. Following a decade of strong growth, LogicaCMG –
along with its competitors – was faced with more limited
demand as many customers focused primarily on maintaining
existing systems and those that generate swift cost savings. This
led to pricing pressure and overcapacity in our industry. The
telecommunications and financial services sectors – two markets
key to the exceptional performance of both Logica and CMG
from 1998 to 2000 – were particularly affected. Overall, our IT
services business held its margins firm against falling revenues.
Our wireless networks business was challenged by both
continued restrictions on capital expenditure and slow
migration to new technologies. We nonetheless slowed the rate
of revenue decline significantly and traded above break-even
for the period, partly as a result of previous actions to reduce
the cost base.
We kept disruption from the merger process to a minimum
and, in comparison to our peers, LogicaCMG’s performance in
the six months to 31 December 2002 was creditable. Our staff
remained focused on delivering results and I would like to
register my thanks for their efforts. As indicated in our recent
update to the financial markets, the results were broadly in line
with our expectations at the time of the merger. Nonetheless,
basic earnings per share* were down 9% at 5.2p.
The continued fall in stock market valuations over the last year
has required us to make a further write-down of goodwill
associated with earlier acquisitions. This non-cash item
amounted to £444.6 million and now leaves £369.4 million of
goodwill on the balance sheet.
In addition to the LogicaCMG merger, we continued to
consider opportunities to strengthen specific parts of our
business through niche acquisitions. In September, we acquired
eGlobal Pacific, an Australian SAP consulting firm, while, in
November, we acquired Great Lakes Technologies Group, of
Michigan USA, to enhance our offering to the automotive
industry. We will continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities
on their merits.
*Before goodwill, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
Chairman’s statement www.logicacmg.com Chairman’s statement 3
Shares and dividend
Shares in LogicaCMG continue to have their primary listing on
the London Stock Exchange, with a secondary listing
maintained on Euronext in Amsterdam, recognising the
continued importance of the Dutch marketplace for our
combined business. On 3 March 2003, Euronext increased the
weighting for LogicaCMG in the premier AEX index, requiring
index tracker funds to increase their holdings. 
For the period ended 31 December 2002, the board has
recommended a dividend of 3p per share. Our policy is to
ensure that shareholders benefit directly and smoothly from the
successful growth of the business while continuing to provide
sufficient funds to invest in future growth. Based on the total
dividend of 5.4p per Logica share for the financial year ended 30
June 2002, it is expected that, in the current climate,
LogicaCMG will maintain the value of the dividend in real terms
for the financial year ending 31 December 2003.
Board changes 
The LogicaCMG board is drawn from both previous entities. A
number of directors have in consequence stood down, including the
Logica non-executive chairman, Sir Frank Barlow. I would like to
thank all retiring directors for their contribution to the development
of the two companies and for their support through the merger . I
also greatly appreciate the help that my new colleagues have given
me in quickly creating a new, cohesive team.
Having spent most of the last 14 years as a CEO, of which the last
two years were spent at CMG, Alistair Crawford has informed the
board that he wishes to pursue similar leadership opportunities.
Alistair has resigned from the board with effect from 4 March 2003
and will support the company in various integration activities over
the next several months in line with his contractual notice period.
The board is grateful for his support both in the process of achieving
the merger and in helping to plan and implement the early phases of
integration. The board wishes him well in his future career .
Outlook
In IT services, we see some evidence of price stability in our largest
markets, the UK and the Netherlands, as customers concentrate
their purchasing on a smaller number of suppliers with a proven
track record of delivery. However , demand in systems integration
and consulting remains weak as customers focus on cost reduction
and maximising returns from existing investments. LogicaCMG is
well positioned to benefit from an increasing appetite to outsource
mission-critical processes, with an established capability supported
by our offshore competence. The economic climate in France and
Germany continues to deteriorate, increasing pressure on rates in
our least differentiated businesses.
Greater headcount reductions and other cost saving measures will
strengthen margins. However , given the longer timescale to effect
headcount reductions in mainland Europe, we anticipate some
pressure on overall margins during the first half of 2003. As more of
the cost reductions come on-line during the second half, we expect
margins to improve, with a further increase during 2004 as the full
impact of the cost savings comes through.
In wireless networks, the progress on multimedia and associated
services is encouraging, although estimates of when the
penetration of new handsets will reach critical mass and associated
volume-based revenues take effect, remain tentative at this early
stage. We are leveraging our market position to maximise our
return from the short messaging service (SMS) marketplace that
remains an important, though declining, source of revenue. Our
combined product portfolio, backed by a streamlined
development, distribution and support organisation, strengthens
our competitive position considerably, underpinned by a customer
base of some 260 operators delivering a solid maintenance
revenue stream. We plan to manage our costs effectively as we
negotiate our path through the technology transition, which
inevitably causes uncertainty and less visibility of revenue. We are
projecting an R&D spend of approximately £55 million for the
current year , compared to a combined spend of nearly £70 million
in calendar year 2002. We have already proposed some 485
redundancies in our wireless networks operations. These actions
give us a cost base designed to at least break even at the operating
level for the full year , recognising that product uncertainty at the
beginning of the year and the timing of cost reductions will impact
the first half.
Our customers are facing demands for greater efficiency and
virtually every attempt to improve performance or enhance channels
to market involves an IT dimension. The merger strengthens our
ability to win market share and to benefit from any improvement in
demand. We remain focused on managing our costs tightly,
capitalising on the cross-selling opportunities the merger has
created, and delivering value-added services to clients.
Cor Stutterheim
Chairman Market background
The IT services industry was born in the 1960s and has enjoyed
strong growth in most years since. This growth accelerated
dramatically in the late 1990s with the rapid expansion of the
internet and preparations for the millennium and the introduction of
the euro. However , since 2001 , life has been very different. Every
business in the sector has had to deal with the first steep and
sustained downturn in the industry.
In this environment, LogicaCMG’s response has been to manage
costs tightly and to address overcapacity in line with reduced
demand. As a result, in the six months under review, we raised our
operating margin in IT services against falling demand and managed
to keep our wireless networks business profitable despite continuing
constraints on capital investment by our customers.
Our customers have different priorities in uncertain times. They
focus on essentials and look for faster returns on their IT
investments. They concentrate primarily on maintaining and
optimising what they have, rather than on installing new systems. T o
get greater certainty of cost at lower risk, they look to outsource
non-core activities or contract via longer term and fixed price
arrangements. More generally, they want to deal with a smaller
number of suppliers who can provide them with a broader range of
offerings, who can support them internationally and who have a
track record of delivering quality work on time and to budget.
Increasingly, they need to be confident that their chosen suppliers
will still be there to support them in the years ahead.
Merger dynamics
Given this market background, the merger of Logica and CMG
makes compelling sense. It gives the new company increased
strength, scale and breadth to drive revenues in a consolidating
market. It brings new momentum to the business because we
can sell products and skills from both former companies to each
other’s customers. It also provides us with the means to lower
operating costs through the creation of a single management,
delivery and support structure for the combined customer base. 
The opportunities provided by the merger are substantial:
• Cross-selling
The overlap of major customers between the two companies
was relatively small and their geographical spread was
different. Hence, the potential for selling our respective skills
and products into already established customers is significant.
Our initial analysis of the most promising short-term
opportunities identified some 60 situations to be targeted
and we are continuing to add to them. For example, in human
resources and payroll systems, CMG has an offering
developed over more than 30 years that is relevant to every
Logica customer that has not yet outsourced these processes.
Chief executive’s review
“
The merger of Logica and CMG makes compelling sense. 
It gives the new company increased strength, scale and
breadth to drive revenues in a consolidating market. 
It provides new momentum to the business and the means 
to lower operating costs.
”
4 Chief executive’s review LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 • Repeatable solutions
We now have a much larger portfolio of mission-critical,
repeatable solutions to deploy globally. For example, in the
banking sector , Logica’s products in settlements, card transaction
processing, security and financial messaging can be introduced to
established CMG customers. Similarly, CMG’s expertise in bank
regulatory reporting, risk management systems and capital
adequacy reporting for compliance with the Basel II Accord, can
be taken to Logica customers, particularly in countries where
CMG had no presence at all. Many other opportunities exist in
sectors such as energy and utilities and automotive.
• Better leverage of accounts
CMG has demonstrated, most notably in the Benelux countries,
the power of managing deep customer and alliance relationships
over years, even decades. By extending this experience and
methodology across the combined group, we are able to
maximise the cross-selling potential in the short-term and the
development of revenues and margins into the future.
• Meeting the need for outsourcing
An increased depth of resources is particularly powerful when
competing for outsourcing business and large public sector
tenders. LogicaCMG targets value-based outsourcing, where
industry and business process knowledge are critical.
Successful delivery requires a high degree of flexibility and 
a comprehensive portfolio of business solutions, both of which
have been enhanced by the merger.
• Adding the offshore dimension
The availability of offshore facilities is a competitive tool of
growing importance. For example, I visited our Bangalore facility in
India just six weeks into the merger and reviewed the top 10
prospects that had been brought to them by LogicaCMG
operations around the world. Three of those prospects had
originated from former CMG business units which previously had
no such offering available to them. Combining offshore
development and support with our enlarged, locally-based teams
of industry experts and account managers will enable our
customers to get the benefit of reduced cost, within an
environment of seamless planning and delivery. 
www.logicacmg.com Chief executive’s review 5 A stronger wireless networks business
The combination of our two mobile telecom businesses positions us
as the only tier one, global player that is independent of the handset
and infrastructure vendors. We can now address our customer base
of more than 260 operators worldwide using one streamlined, cost-
effective global structure. We moved swiftly to remove the customer
uncertainty that inevitably arises when two companies with
competing products are brought together . In February, our
combined product strategy and development plan for wireless
networks was presented to the market at the 3GSM World Congress
in Cannes and was very well received. 
Despite the market downturn, short messaging service (SMS)
volumes are continuing to grow and fixed-line operators are
now beginning to offer this facility to their users. Moreover, the
traffic generated by applications beyond interpersonal
messaging – such as promotions, games, voting, TV-interaction
and location-based services – is now reaching meaningful levels.
These applications generate a significant level of peak traffic
which, taken together with interpersonal SMS volume growth,
meant that some tier one European operators returned to
LogicaCMG for major capacity upgrades during the last six
months of 2002. We believe that SMS product and maintenance
revenues will remain important for years to come.
In multimedia messaging, we continue to make progress with sales
and installations. Competition from the handset and infrastructure
vendors remains fierce. However , we are confident that our track
record for delivering high performance, high reliability systems will
prevail, as volumes increase and the issues of inter-operability and
service diversity become more pressing. The T elecom Italia Group is
the first tangible example of a tier one operator that launched
multimedia services using system components from their
infrastructure suppliers, before going on to sign a framework
agreement with LogicaCMG.
In unified communications, there is a large installed base of ageing
voicemail systems that needs upgrading to internet protocol (IP)
standards so that voice, fax and email traffic can be handled in a
consistent and interchangeable fashion. LogicaCMG’s uOne product
is well placed to address this market. In addition, the wireless
platforms we are providing to Hutchison 3G globally are based on a
unified communications structure that incorporates multimedia
messaging, SMS, delivery of video content and other functionality
via an attractive and consistent user interface. They demonstrate the
direction in which the wireless market is moving.
“
The new business will be much stronger and will
provide increased scope to broaden the experience of
our people. Our goal is to create an open, meritocratic
and performance-oriented company in which the best
people can build their careers.
”
6 Chief executive’s review LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 In billing, we continue to secure revenues with our prepay products
and are broadening our offerings across the total billing spectrum.
There are growing synergies between our wireless networks business
and our wider exposure to the sector through our systems
integration capability. For example, we have been working during the
period on a next generation customer care and billing system for
Vodafone in Sweden which integrates prepaid and postpaid
customers for both voice and data services. In addition, we are
already generating revenues by enabling banking, ticketing, voting
and access control over wireless networks. We believe that mobility
applications will be a key differentiator and revenue source for
LogicaCMG in the years ahead.
Crucially, emerging markets for higher bandwidth mobile
communications demand far more than just the delivery of software
‘black boxes’. Users will demand much richer content if they are to
pay more to their operators and service providers. Much of this
content will come from third party suppliers and applications and
will need integrating onto the delivery platform. Billing will need to
reflect the relative values of the different services and content
chosen. Content enablement may need to be hosted and managed
in a different environment. All these are opportunities that favour
LogicaCMG with its unique product offerings and proven system
integration expertise across many industries and technologies.
Integrating the two businesses
The merger of two leading international companies is clearly
complex. From the outset, we approached this task with clear
targets, detailed planning and a determined pace. As a result,
integration is progressing well. Focused teams, working to 
agreed plans and milestones, are systematically addressing the
remaining elements of the integration, much of which has 
already been completed.
As a result of these efforts, the merger is now expected to deliver
savings above our initial estimates, through the rationalisation of
premises and higher than anticipated headcount reductions. 
The reductions in staff numbers are a painful but necessary element
of the integration and I realise this is a very difficult time for our
staff. However , it is vital that we align our headcount to the needs of
our combined and streamlined business and position ourselves to
prosper when markets pick up. Our overriding principle is that
clarity and speed are in the best interests of our people and the
business. As a result, the integration task is well on the way to
completion in many of our operations. In the remainder , detailed
consultation with individuals and staff representative bodies
continues in accordance with local legislation. 
Over 90% of our people will continue to have a role in the new
business, which will be much stronger and will provide increased
scope to broaden experience and more opportunities to work on
large, mission-critical projects for a variety of customers. There will
be more overseas assignments available for those who want to
travel, and staff will be exposed to new ideas and approaches to
doing business from their new colleagues. Our goal is to create an
open, meritocratic and performance-oriented company in which the
best people can build their careers.
LogicaCMG today
Our company is now a major international force in IT services and
wireless telecoms, with around 21 ,000 people in 34 countries. Our
customers have access to a broader range of offerings across key
industry sectors from a single supplier . We can offer them a strong
global distribution and support network and long-term operational
strength, dependability and certainty.
We are, therefore, well placed to pursue our mission of helping
leading organisations worldwide achieve their business objectives,
through the innovative delivery of information technology and
business process solutions.
Our strategy is one of market focus and differentiation based on:
• value-added, mission-critical, repeatable, global offerings
• strong relationships with customers, partners, suppliers and 
staff and
• full service provision covering consultancy, design, systems
integration, products and outsourcing
While this strategy cannot insulate us from today’s economic and
political uncertainty, it will enable us to maximise our
performance in difficult times.
Areas of growth in today’s difficult market still exist and we are
determined to seize them. Our merger creates particular
opportunities through cross-selling our skills and products, delivering
more repeatable solutions, leveraging our accounts and meeting the
need for outsourcing, including offshore services. 
In any medium-term view, we continue to regard IT as an attractive
industry to be in. It affects every aspect of business and government.
Whenever an organisation seeks to offer a new service, make a
change in its operations, achieve greater efficiencies or achieve
competitive edge, it needs to invest in IT . While today’s uncertainty
creates lack of confidence and purchasing delays in the short-term,
pent-up demand for IT services is building. At LogicaCMG, we are
positioning ourselves strongly for an upturn but we are not waiting
for it, nor making assumptions as to when it will arrive. In the
meantime, our merger places us in a good position to deliver value
for our stakeholders over the coming year .
Martin Read
Group chief executive
www.logicacmg.com Chief executive’s review 7 A global team
“
India is an important market for us and signing a deal with T ata
T eleservices Ltd, a leading basic services operator with a long-term vision
in India, is a significant step for us in strengthening our regional presence.
”
Louwke van der Steen, managing director , South Asia, LogicaCMG
8A global team LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
UK/Republic of Ireland
Aberdeen, Altrincham, Birmingham,
Brentwood, Bridgend, Bristol, Bromley,
Camberley, Cambridge, Cardiff, Derby,
Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leatherhead,
Leeds, London, Maidstone, Manchester,
Nottingham, Powys, Prestatyn, Reading,
Rosyth, Solihull, Staines, Stevenage
Continental Europe
Alkmaar, Arnhem, Amstelveen,
Amsterdam, Aix-en-Provence, Apeldoorn,
Bassersdorf, Berchem, Berlin, Bielefeld,
Bochum, Boulogne-Billancourt, Bonn,
Bordeaux, Bratislava, Bremen, Brest, Brno,
Brussels, Budapest, Cairo, Cologne,
Dusseldorf, Eindhoven, Enschede,
Frankfurt, Grenoble, Groningen, Hamburg,
Hannover, Hoofddorp, Kassel,
Leenwarden, Leinfelden-Echterdingen,
Lille, Longville-les-Metz, Luxembourg,
Lyon, Maastricht, Madrid, Mainz,
Mannheim, Metz, Montpellier, Munich,
Nantes, Nieuwegein, Niort, Nürnburg,
Oslo, Paris, Pau, Plzen, Prague, Ratingen,
Rösrath, Rotterdam, Stockholm,
Strasbourg, Stuttgart, The Hague,
Toulouse, Udorf, Unterschleissheim,
Utrecht, Vienna, Walldorf, Wemmel,
Woerden, Wolfsburg, Zoetermeer, Zurich
Americas
Caracas, Dallas, Dearborn, Glen Allen,
Houston, Kirkland, Lexington, Nashua,
Pittsburgh, São Paulo, San Francisco,
Seattle, Southfield, Toronto, New York
Asia Pacific/Middle East
Aichi, Bangalore, Beijing, Brisbane,
Canberra, Dubai, Fukuoka, Griffith, Hobart,
Hong Kong, Jakarta, Johannesburg, Kuala
Lumpur , Melbourne, Milton, Mumbai, New
Delhi, Osaka, Perth, Riyadh, Selangor Darul
Ehsan, Seoul, Singapore, Sydney, T aipei,
T okyo, T oranomor
• LogicaCMG employs around 21 ,000
people around the world
• Offices in 34 countries
• One global strategy
• One worldwide distribution network
• Working across international boundaries
• Repeatable global solutions
• At the heart of the world’s key markets
Key facts Location of LogicaCMG offices www.logicacmg.com A global team 9
12 months to 12 months to
31 December 2002 31 December 2001
£’m £’m
UK/Republic of Ireland 695.7 745.4
Continental Europe 848.0 958.5
Americas 108.9 106.3
Asia Pacific & Middle East 174.8 338.6
1,827.4 2, 148.8
Revenue by client location Our business
Our business is broadly based by sector
and geography. This strategic approach
allows us to better respond to the highs
and lows of the global economy. With our
focus traditionally centred on five key
sectors: financial services, energy and
utilities, telecoms, industry, distribution
and transport, and the public sector, we
have created a balanced business portfolio.
The coming together of our two
organisations has both improved our
position in many of these key markets and
opened up cross-selling opportunities both
within and across sectors.
This year has been a challenging
environment for all concerned. Clients
have been restricting any new expenditure
to mission-critical activities and have been
demanding greater value from suppliers
and partners. We are striving to position
the newly enlarged LogicaCMG group at
the heart of our clients’ businesses and to
continue to successfully deliver solutions
across all our market sectors.
Industry, distribution and transport
Our industry, distribution and transport
business focuses mainly on the
automotive and transport industries,
working with some of the biggest
companies in these sectors. New
acquisitions, in Australia and the US,
mean that more than 65% of the
business is now outside the UK,
providing the capability to support global
programmes of work.
The merger expanded our automotive
client base, bringing together Logica
customers, such as Ford, Renault and
Volkswagen, with major CMG clients such
as PSA Peugeot Citroën. In November
2002, we were awarded a £31.5 million,
five-year contract with Lotus to provide
ongoing consultancy, IT support and
procurement for their operations in the
UK, Malaysia and the US.
10 Business overview LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
Business overview In transport, we have a track record of
delivering complex, safety-critical
systems for air, rail and travel customers
such as Deutsche Bahn, Schiphol Airport,
Dutch Railways and Network Rail. 
We are well placed to seize opportunities
in the rapidly growing market for
outsourcing services. Our strength in
such areas as human resources and our
strong UK outsourcing base puts us in a
good position to extend into mainland
Europe. Integral to LogicaCMG’s strategy
is our focus on the business process
outsourcing market, which is the fastest
growing part of the outsourcing arena.
We are already winning significant
contracts in this area, such as a 
£16 million contract with Countrywide
Property Lawyers in 2002 to manage its
conveyancing handling process.
LogicaCMG’s expanded SAP Enterprise
Solutions business enables us to support
pan-European and global SAP roll-outs
through an enlarged network of 1,800
consultants. In addition to our extensive
range of SAP consultancy and
implementation services, we offer full
SAP outsourcing, taking over
responsibility for applications on behalf
of our clients. This offering has been
enhanced by our September 2002
acquisition of eGlobal Pacific, a leading
Australian SAP consultancy.
We also acquired the Great Lakes
Technologies Group, a Michigan-based
automotive IT solutions company, in
November 2002. This acquisition
enhances our global position with major
automotive companies such as Ford. It
brought with it DaimlerChrysler as a new
key account. We also won a contract with
General Motors to pilot a global
customer relationship management
solution in the UK and Germany. 
Looking ahead, we envisage new
opportunities in employee relationship
management where customers are looking
for more effective means of managing
large, often remotely-based, workforces.
Our position as the only mobile-enabled
systems integrator gives us a unique
capability to tackle these issues.
“
We are focused on the automotive and transport sectors and
have strong relationships with many major international
companies, such as Ford and Volkswagen. Through the merger and
some significant acquisitions that we made during the year we have
expanded and strengthened our customer base.
”
John Lieblang, Ford global account director, LogicaCMG
www.logicacmg.com Business overview 11 Financial services
LogicaCMG has a track record of
delivering mission-critical systems to many
of the world’s leading financial
organisations, including ABN AMRO, ING
and Barclays Group. More than 150
international banks use LogicaCMG
systems to move their funds and, every
day, $3 trillion is transmitted with the
support of our software solutions.
In 2002, the difficult commercial
environment meant that financial
institutions concentrated on cost
reduction, rather than on investing in new
projects. In response, we focused on areas
of particular customer demand, such as
payments, risk and regulatory reporting,
operational effectiveness, channels to
market, and managed services.
We built on our strong track record of
improving operational effectiveness by
integrating new technology with, for
instance, a contract for ING in the Czech
Republic to provide a new payments pre and
post processing solution. The project built
on our strong relationship with ING, whose
European data centres we are currently
consolidating and for whom we already
provide a back office managed service. 
During the year, we demonstrated our
strength in the electronic funds transfer
(EFT) sector with significant wins. The
Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA)
selected us to supply, implement and
support a new EFT payments network in
the kingdom, in partnership with Oasis
Technology. LogicaCMG is also providing
SAMA with consultancy services,
electronic bill presentment and payment
(EBPP), e-Commerce, m-Commerce and
a smart card strategy.
In another EFT win, in January 2003, we
were selected by Luottokunta, the leading
payment card service company in Finland,
to provide the world’s first national
implementation of a new end-to-end 
card processing solution. The solution
enables multi-application smart cards 
to be issued.
LogicaCMG has introduced Real Time
Gross Settlement (RTGS) Systems around
the world. In December 2002, an
agreement to implement the RTGS and
Scripless Securities Settlement (SSS)
Systems for the Central Bank of Sri
Lanka, followed a RTGS system
agreement with Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas earlier that year.
“
We have a strong heritage of delivering and supporting mission-
critical systems for our banking and insurance clients. We have expertise
in such areas as payments solutions, regulatory reporting, channels and
effective operations, as well as a broad geographical spread.
Our critical mass in some of the world’s key financial centres makes us
the partner of choice for many financial institutions. 
”
Jane T weddle, managing director , financial services, LogicaCMG
12 Business overview LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Our expertise in risk and regulatory
reporting helps us assist businesses to cope
with increasing levels of regulation. In
2002, we continued to invest in product
development and complementary
consultancy services to help institutions
meet the requirements of the Basel II
Accord. We grew our risk business with a
contract to implement BESS payments and
HotScan compliance solutions to First
Tennessee Bank of Memphis, Tennessee.
The solutions will increase FTB’s payments
performance and security and is a key
element of the bank’s USA Patriot Act
compliance programme.
In 2002, we built on our agreement with the
Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
T elecommunications (SWIFT) with an
agreement to re-market the SWIFT Alliance
range of messaging products. The result is a
broader portfolio of product offerings,
enabling our financial services customers 
to take advantage of new interactive 
and browser-based services over the 
new internet protocol (IP) based 
SWIFTNet network.
In 2002, our technical capabilities received
external recognition. We won an award
from Financial Sector Technology magazine
for our work implementing the Royal &
SunAlliance More Th>n portal. With
Towry Law, whose supply chain we re-
engineered to ensure effective and
efficient independent services, we also
received the Money Marketing award for
best use of new media.
www.logicacmg.com Business overview 13 Energy and utilities
We have a strong track record of delivering
innovative services for energy and utilities
customers in Europe, North America, Asia,
Australasia and the Middle East. In
addition to our strength in systems
integration, our offerings include
consultancy, business process outsourcing,
managed services and SAP consultancy,
delivery and support.
LogicaCMG provides a broad approach to
the business challenges of energy and
utility companies, based on in-depth
knowledge and experience of the industry
itself, in addition to our ability to draw on
expertise from other sectors. This includes
capabilities in e-Commerce, customer
relationship management and enterprise
solutions software that have already
proved successful in industries such as
telecoms, banking and retail.
In 2002, we continued to help our
customers meet the regulatory and
commercial requirements of liberalisation
in the energy and utilities sector. However,
revenues declined in a difficult market.
Consolidation further reduced the
number of global energy companies
requiring large, mission-critical projects,
while the Californian energy crisis and the
collapse of Enron effectively halted
further deregulation in the US. Despite
such issues, demand for outsourcing
services grew as companies focused on
their core activities in the more
competitive environment. 
Outsourcing is particularly well developed in
the liberalised UK marketplace. During
2002, we were awarded a £20 million, 10-
year contract to implement and operate a
solution based on mySAP Business Suite for
British Waterways, which runs much of the
UK’s inland waterway network. We also won
a major outsourcing contract for Northern
Electric and, in February 2003, another for
infrastructure management group AWG.
“
LogicaCMG is a thought leader in the creation and operation of
competitive energy markets. While some, such as the UK, are now mature,
our deep understanding of the complex issues involved at each stage makes
us a strong outsourcing partner for market operators and participants alike.
Our industry knowledge also enables us to develop and deliver cost-
effective globally repeatable solutions to our clients.
”
Alexandra Lemerova, LogicaCMG’s divisional director for 
energy and utilities in the Czech Republic
14 Business overview LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 In Australia, we were selected by South
East Water, one of the country’s largest
water companies, to develop a fully
integrated customer contact and workflow
management system. This initiative will
considerably improve customer
communications by bringing together
disparate systems and by utilising 
e-Business channels such as the internet.
We continue to offer cost-effective,
repeatable solutions to our clients. In the
US, our Work Management Information
System went live with the City Public
Service of San Antonio. In February 2003,
we unveiled our integrated Asset and
Resource Management product suite,
which helps utilities to improve customer
service and reduce operating costs
through increased systems reliability and
extended asset life span. 
In Europe, despite the slow progress towards
implementing European Union directives on
liberalisation, we continued to exploit our
strong thought leadership in the sector . In
November 2002, we were awarded a
contract to provide our Prodis solution for
gas shipping logistics to Dansk Olie og
Naturgas, as part of the gas liberalisation
process in Denmark. The solution supports
the key business processes required by
European gas shippers and minimises their
exposure to penalties for failing to match
supply with demand.
We also helped Electricidad do Portugal
(EDP) launch a new competitive supply
business for the liberalising Portuguese
electricity market. We defined the
processes and systems needed by this new
business and implemented a customer
relationship management system for it.
LogicaCMG has a broad energy and
utilities customer base that includes
some of the largest oil, gas, electricity
and water companies in the world.
Although the market remains difficult,
our breadth of offerings and our record
of delivering mission-critical solutions
put us in pole position to benefit from a
future market recovery.
www.logicacmg.com Business overview 15 Telecoms
LogicaCMG has a broad portfolio of
telecoms services, solutions and products
with a customer base spanning mobile
operators, such as Vodafone and Cingular,
and wireline companies, like BT and KPN. 
Our wireless business has the scale to
compete with the largest infrastructure
and handset vendors. Its offerings range
from messaging and wireless portals to
unified communications, mobile payments,
operational support services and
outsourcing. Our expertise in managing
the delivery of content, billing for service
usage and the handling of customer and
third party relationships is a clear
differentiator against providers of pure
product propositions.
We remain the world leader in SMS (short
message service) messaging solutions and
have real strength in MMS (multimedia
messaging service), which allows such
services as photo messaging. Our uOne
unified messaging platform integrates
voice, fax and email across multiple
networks and devices.
In 2002, trading conditions remained
tough and our revenues declined as
operators continued to reduce spending.
Inevitably, this delayed investment in third
generation (3G) services and the
infrastructure to support them. Operator
focus shifted instead to retaining users and
launching value-added services. We
continued to help customers exploit
market trends and patterns in order to
develop new products and packages to
maximise the value of their customers.
However, despite this difficult climate, we
were successful in winning the contract to
provide a total messaging solution to
Hutchison 3G Ltd, holder of the UK’s
largest 3G mobile phone licence. The
solution includes our unified
communications solutions, the multimedia
messaging service centre, wireless service
broker and the short message service
centre. LogicaCMG will also enable
Hutchison 3G to deliver rich media
content, including the transmission of
video and audio clips to handsets.
In Singapore, we supported the launch of
SingTel Mobile’s MMS service. We were
also awarded a contract by Telecom Italia
SpA, a leading fixed line and wireless
operator, to supply wireless messaging
solutions across the Telecom Italia Group
in South America and Europe. 
16 Business overview LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 In 2002, we delivered our prepaid solution
to Cosmote, the leading mobile operator
in Greece. This will enable Cosmote to
migrate seamlessly from 2.5G to 3G
technologies. It also provides prepaid
services that will support the operator’s
two million subscribers and has the
capability to extend capacity to extra users. 
Customers are increasingly seeking to
consolidate multiple systems, such as
billing and customer relations. We are
well placed to meet this demand and
were selected by Vodafone Sweden to
provide a customer care and billing
solution to support its next generation
mobile services. 
The sector outlook remains difficult with
continued capital spending restraints and
increasing competition from offshore
service providers. However, there are
growing opportunities in some parts of
the world, such as Asia, Eastern Europe
and the Middle East. Our new scale and
breadth, together with our own offshore
capabilities, position us well to weather
current market difficulties and continue
as a sector leader.
“
We offer full service provision to our clients with solutions across
the entire range of telecoms services, from messaging to billing and
customer relations. We are also supporting the roll-out of third
generation services. Our scale and the strength of our offerings
enable us to add real value to customers’ operations and to
compete effectively with the very best companies in the sector.
”
Stéphane Dubois, LogicaCMG’s managing director, telecoms, France
www.logicacmg.com Business overview 17 Public sector
LogicaCMG’s public sector business focuses
on the central government, local authority
and space and defence markets. In 2002,
our reputation for delivering mission-critical
systems and our expertise in systems
development, applications management
and business and technical consulting again
enabled us to win major contracts. 
We continued to see growth in the sector as
clients focused on improving performance
in response to sustained pressure for
publicly-funded organisations to be more
efficient, accessible and responsive. 
Government
LogicaCMG has a particularly strong
presence in the UK and Benelux 
markets where we support the drive for 
e-Government. In the government arena,
there was strong demand for such
solutions as information management and
delivery, case management and workflow
applications, and e-Service delivery.
Our range of skills positions us well to take
advantage of the growing trend towards
business process and IT outsourcing. In
2002, we successfully piloted our case
management system for the Crown
Prosecution Service (CPS) in Guildford,
Stafford and Leeds. This is part of our 
10-year, £200 million contract to manage
IT services for the CPS.
Our strength in the UK and Benelux
markets provides a platform to deliver
repeatable solutions in other countries.
This was demonstrated in 2002 when we
headed the consortium which won an
AUS$25 million contract to develop an 
e-Marketplace for the Department 
of Public Works and Services in the
Australian state of New South Wales. 
Our track record in government includes
us having supported every Dutch
Government department and having
worked across the whole UK public sector,
with customers such as the Department of
Trade and Industry and the Health & Safety
Executive. In 2002, substantial new
opportunities began to emerge in the
National Health Service, in the criminal
justice community and in local authorities.
For example, we won a contract to provide
a business change solution based on
mySAP Business Suite for the London
Borough of Waltham Forest. 
Space and defence
In space and defence, our new scale and
breadth and our ability to deliver bespoke
software for mission-critical applications
meets our customers’ desire for long-term,
dependable suppliers who are capable of
delivering complex projects. 
“
In the public sector we have a reputation for delivering
mission-critical systems, both for government customers
and space and defence programmes. In an arena where projects 
are under constant scrutiny, our proven account management 
skills mean customers trust us to deliver complex systems and
services on time and within their budget.
”
Kevin Gorman, managing director , UK government division, LogicaCMG
18 Business overview LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 LogicaCMG’s client base includes many of
the leading organisations in the sector,
including the UK Ministry of Defence
(MoD), Astrium, the European Space
Agency and the UK Hydrographic Office.
The merger has created considerable
opportunities for cross-selling in areas
such as managed services, training and
payroll. Additionally, the broader
capability of the merged organisation
reinforces our position as the number one
supplier of consultancy services through
the MoD’s Defence Communication
Services Agency Catalogue.
Strong partnerships are an essential step to
securing major space and defence
programmes. In 2002, we teamed up with
General Dynamics UK, QinetiQ and
Nickleby to win a contract to conduct a
concept study for the Joint Effects T actical
Targeting System (JETTS) for the MoD.
The system will enable effective
coordination of naval, air and army assets
throughout the land battlespace. The team
builds on the successful partnership
between Logica and General Dynamics to
deliver a fire control Battlefield Information
System Application for the British Army’s
BOWMAN communications infrastructure.
The MoD also confirmed the Paradigm
team, which includes LogicaCMG, as
preferred bidder for the Skynet 5
programme. This will deliver a highly
advanced satellite communications system
for the British armed forces.
The public sector has remained partially
insulated from the economic slowdown that
has made trading difficult in other markets.
Clients and programmes are under constant
scrutiny and, despite increasing competition,
our 30 years of sector experience, our
reputation and our new scale make us a
formidable force for the future.
www.logicacmg.com Business overview 19 Our customers
“
LogicaCMG has an impressive track record in our
target markets and we want to use their experience to
build world-class IT systems that enhance AWG’s
competitive edge when bidding for new business.
”
Iain Robertson, AWG Group Strategy Director
“
The LogicaCMG team that advised and supervised
us displayed excellent technical know-how, even
though the new SAP solution has only been on the
market for a short while. Moreover, LogicaCMG's
pragmatic attitude linked up well with the knowledge
and requirements of our own staff.
”
José Ramos Najera, Head of ICT ,
Loodswezen (Dutch Pilot Service)
“
We need technology to be cost-effective and to
deliver a sound return on investment and this means
global rather than local solutions. Our suppliers need to
help us in this by providing the best resources where
and when we need them, and at affordable rates.
LogicaCMG has always shown flexibility in the way that
it is willing to work – a down to earth attitude based on
delivering pragmatic results.
”
Arjen Dorland, CIO of Shell Oil Products, Europe
“
LogicaCMG has a reputation in the energy and
utility sector for delivering business benefits while
maintaining flexibility in its service contracts. 
This is critical to us as our business requirements
evolve or as industry changes occur.
”
Eric Connor, President and CEO, Northern Electric 
20 Our customers LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
“
Lotus was looking for a high quality, cost effective, reliable service that
included the flexibility required in the current dynamic market
environment. LogicaCMG’s support will allow us to react more effectively
and efficiently to business demands as well as expand into new markets,
thus enabling us to maintain our competitive advantage.
”
James Stronach, Group Lotus Financial Director “
Electronic Records and Document Management is
not just about IT. It's about new ways of working. We
are working very closely with LogicaCMG to help all
our people change the way they work.
”
Liz Maclachlan, Director , ERDM programme, 
Department of T rade and Industry
“
3i have been deploying the talents of LogicaCMG for
many years in a development and applications support
role. The cultural fit is excellent, LogicaCMG have an
inclusive, pragmatic culture where we ‘work with’ the
team. LogicaCMG are open, proactive and professional
in their approach and have developed an excellent
understanding of our business and our systems.
”
John T racey, Director , Head of Information Systems, 3i
www.logicacmg.com Our customers 21 Integration progress and cost savings
The integration process continues to progress according to the
detailed plan that was in place prior to the completion of the merger .
We have established a demanding pace and the two cultures are
gelling together well with a strong sense of common purpose and
approach. Customer reaction has been very positive and we already
have projects underway combining the skills and experience of
individuals from both companies. A significant number of cross-
selling opportunities have been identified and are being pursued
across the enhanced customer base. 
Our budgeting process for the combined company has enabled us
to more accurately assess the potential merger cost savings and
their timing. Our current expectation is to achieve savings of 
£80 million on an annualised basis, with approximately 
£40 million coming through in 2003, mainly impacting the second
half. This objective is clearly appropriate given continued weak
demand in the market. Our revised view of the total cost of
achieving these savings is £100 million, of which £80 million 
is in respect of an expected total headcount reduction of 2,200,
representing some 9.5% of the total workforce.
Financial review
22 Financial review LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Business results
The commentary below relates to the combined performance of
Logica and CMG for the six months to 31 December 2002, reported
under merger accounting conventions. Except where otherwise
stated, pro forma unaudited combined figures for the previous six
months to 30 June have been used for comparative purposes.
Profit before interest and tax* was £59. 1 million on revenues 
of £882.5 million which declined 7% from the previous six months
and 17% from the same period in the previous year . Operating
margins* of 6.7% were slightly ahead, up from 6.6% in the previous
six months. On the lower revenues and increased interest expense,
profit before tax* was 8% lower and basic earnings per share* were
down 9% at 5.2p. 
After restructuring costs of £7.7 million, goodwill amortisation of
£24.3 million (six months to 30 June 2002: £31.6 million), goodwill
impairment of £444.6 million, merger costs of £22.6 million and 
a net interest charge of £4.6 million (six months to 30 June 2002:
£3.5 million), losses on ordinary activities before tax amounted to
£444.7 million, giving a loss per share of 62.4p (six months to 
30 June 2002: loss of 40.3p). Cash flow from operating activities*
for the period was £59.8 million, representing a cash conversion 
of 101%. Net debt at 31 December 2002 was £107. 1 million 
(£91.7 million at 30 June 2002). The directors have declared a
dividend for the six month period of 3.0p, as previously indicated.
In what continued to be a very difficult period in the technology
sector , as it was affected by global economic uncertainty, revenues
declined in both of our business streams. In IT services, the decline
was 7% sequentially (8% on an organic basis and 13% over the same
period in 2001), with financial services and telecommunications
continuing to be heavily depressed. Operating margins* were solid at
8. 1%, compared to 7 .8% in the previous six months, reflecting tight
cost control, the benefit of previous restructuring and greater pricing
stability in key markets despite weak volumes. 
In wireless networks, our business traded in line with previous
guidance at just above break even on revenues of £160.9 million,
with the rate of revenue decline substantially slower than that
experienced in the previous six months. 
We reduced headcount during the period by 943, as a result of
previously announced restructuring and natural attrition,
combined with minimal recruitment. We entered the new year
with 23,097 people in the combined group, prior to restructuring
following the merger.
*Before goodwill, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
Revenue by geographical breakdown of location of operations
12 months to 
31 December 2002
12 months to 
31 December 2001
£1,827.4 MILLION £2, 148.8 MILLION
“
Customer reaction has been very positive and we already have
projects underway combining the skills and experience of individuals
from both companies.
”
www.logicacmg.com Financial review 23
12 months to 12 months to
31 December 2002 31 December 2001
£’m £’m
United Kingdom 674.5 (37%) 738.7 (34%)
Benelux 416.6 (23%) 485.6 (23%)
Germany 133.0 (7%) 15 7 .4 (7%)
France 99.3 (5%) 107 .2 (5%)
Rest of Europe 52.0 (3%) 50.6 (3%)
Rest of W orld 121 .2 (7%) 135.9 (6%)
Wireless networks 330.8 (18%) 473.4 (22%) IT services
• Public sector revenues declined by 2% during the period, although
its share of total group revenues increased to 19.3%, reflecting the
relative resilience of the sector . The two largest markets are the
UK, where both the Crown Prosecution Service and the Health &
Safety Executive were major sources of revenue, and the
Netherlands, where we work with every Dutch government
ministry. In the UK, activity levels remained high and existing
contracts progressed well; but no major new contracts were
started during the period. However , we were selected as part of
the Paradigm consortium as preferred bidder to deliver a new
satellite communications system for the British armed forces. In
the Netherlands, it had been hoped that projects deferred in the
first half due to the general election would be rescheduled.
However , the new government did not survive and a fresh election
was called in the second half, causing greater uncertainty and
contributing to a continued delay in new contract awards. 
• The industry, distribution and transport (IDT) sector grew by 1%,
partly assisted by the acquisition of Great Lakes T echnologies
Group in the US and the addition thereby of DaimlerChrysler to
our automotive key account roster . The solid performance
achieved in this sector reflects our combined strength in enterprise
solutions, particularly those related to the SAP product suite, and
the resilience of our payroll and HR outsourcing offerings. Demand
for SAP-related work remained firm, helped by our enhanced
status as a global integration partner for the software vendor .
• The energy and utilities sector declined by 9%, in the wake of
stalled investment in an environment of consolidation among the
energy supply and distribution companies, particularly in the UK,
and adverse publicity surrounding deregulation and energy trading
in the US. Our status with major customers such as Shell has been
improved by the merger . The recent £19 million contract with
Anglian Water Group (AWG) was the first major contract signed in
the sector since the merger .
• Financial services business declined by 14% as budget
restrictions and deferred projects continued to affect the
sector. UK retail banking, which had held up better in the
early stages of the market downturn, also scaled back its
development activities, while the lack of major mergers
during the period curtailed systems integration work. We
continued to secure important contracts in our key niches of
payments and risk management, while long-standing
relationships with the Dutch banks and insurers enabled us to
secure a greater share of their reduced spend.
• In telecommunications services, the rate of decline slowed but
was still 16%, as both fixed line and mobile operators continued
to limit investment to essential projects and maintenance.
Concentrating on our key accounts, such as BT, Vodafone
Group, mmO2, Orange and Saudi Telecom, has helped to
reduce the effect. Wireless networks revenues declined 5%,
following the much heavier declines in the first half of 2002 and
continued tough competition from infrastructure and handset
vendors in the emerging multimedia marketplace. The contract
with Hutchison 3G was the most notable revenue generator, as
the company implemented its launch strategy for third
generation messaging and content provision.
24 Financial review LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
6 months Pro forma unaudited
to 31 December 2002 % growth % calendar 2002 % growth %
Revenue by sector £’m sequential share £’m year-on-year share
Public sector 170. 1 (2) 19.3 343.9 22 18.8
Industry, distribution & transport 185.9 1 21 . 1 370.0 (3) 20.2
Energy & utilities 138.8 (9) 1 5.7 290.7 (9) 1 5.9
Financial services 1 59.6 (14) 18. 1 344.7 (22) 18.9
T elecommunications 67 .2 (16) 7 .6 147 .3 (41) 8. 1
Total IT services 721 .6 (7) 81 .8 1 ,496.6 (1 1) 81 .9
Wireless networks 160.9 (5) 18.2 330.8 (30) 18. 1
Total group 882.5 (7) 100.0 1 ,827 .4 (1 5) 100.0
Market sector review www.logicacmg.com Financial review 25
6 months Pro forma unaudited
to 31 December 2002 % growth % calendar 2002 % growth %
Revenue by sector £’m sequential share £’m year-on-year share
Public sector 1 19.9 1 38.2 239.0 43 35.4
Industry, distribution & transport 60. 1 (5) 19.2 123.5 (12) 18.3
Energy & utilities 71 .0 (1 5) 22.6 1 54.4 (21) 22.9
Financial services 36.3 (42) 1 1 .6 98.5 (34) 14.6
T elecommunications 26.4 (19) 8.4 59. 1 (30) 8.8
Total IT services 313.7 (13) 100.0 674.5 (9) 100.0
H2 02 H1 02 FY 02 FY 01
Operating margin* 10.9% 1 0.0% 10.4% 9. 1%
*Before goodwill, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
United Kingdom
The UK market remained weak in the six months to 31 December
2002. The impact was particularly marked in financial services,
despite some individual projects of note. Generally, there was a
dearth of large, new systems integration projects with licence and
add-on revenues as customers sought primarily to optimise and
maintain existing systems. While this impacted revenue, it had a
positive effect on margins, assisted by a more stable pricing
environment and the benefit of headcount reduction and property
restructuring implemented during the half.
Public sector revenues grew by 1%, as current projects progressed
well and we developed a strong pipeline across both central and local
government agencies, responding to the drive for e-Government.
The case management system development for the Crown
Prosecution Service moved into pilot trials around the turn of the year ,
while the Health & Safety Executive infrastructure refresh and support
work has bedded in well. Both accounts were among our top 20 group
customers in the period under review. We extended our managed
training services, in the defence procurement arena, and our work
with the Metropolitan Police Service. We signed a 
10-year , £16 million contract with the Department of the
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) to design, build and
maintain a radiological incident monitoring network. We secured a £6
million outsourcing contract with the New Opportunities Fund to
provide IT support for the allocation of lottery money to good causes.
Revenues in the industry, distribution and transport sector were
down 5%, the relative robustness largely resulting from our strength
in SAP and Oracle-based integration and in outsourced payroll. The
£31 .5 million, five-year , global contract with Lotus Cars was a notable
achievement in the period. We extended our long-standing
relationship with Network Rail, including an Oracle-based HR
project. We developed a web portal for Asite to provide a single
point of access to best of breed technologies to support business
processes in the construction industry. New payroll customers
included Dell computers.
Energy and utilities revenues declined by 1 5%. The vertically
integrated energy companies have in many cases been
contemplating consolidation, causing additional disruption to IT
investment beyond the general economic environment. We did
however secure a major outsourcing project for Northern Electric, as
well as one for the Anglian Water Group (AWG), both of which will
be significant revenue generators in 2003 and beyond. 
Despite the 42% decline in financial services revenues, we
continued to provide value-added services to existing customers
such as Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds TSB. We also
extended our framework agreement with the Financial Services
Authority. The insurance sector was especially depressed,
although we won an award during the period for our work on
the Royal & Sun Alliance More Th>n portal.
Telecommunications services declined a further 19% as
expenditure continued to be squeezed. There was a greater
concentration on our major accounts, notably Vodafone, BT,
mmO2 and Orange UK. We are deeply involved with the IT
systems behind Vodafone’s drive to increase revenues from new
services like Vodafone Live and include in our successes the
contract to provide its mWallet payment facility. 26 Financial review LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
6 months Pro forma unaudited
to 31 December 2002 % growth % calendar 2002 % growth %
Revenue by sector £’m sequential share £’m year-on-year share
Public sector 40.0 (8) 19.6 83.7 (17) 20.0
Industry, distribution & transport 58.6 (4) 28.7 1 19.9 (3) 28.8
Energy & utilities 30.9 7 1 5.2 59.8 39 14.4
Financial services 57 .5 (3) 28.2 1 16.6 (13) 28.0
T elecommunications 1 7 .0 (13) 8.3 36.6 (57) 8.8
Total IT services 204.0 (4) 100.0 416.6 (14) 100.0
H2 02 H1 02 FY 02 FY 01
Operating margin* 9.9% 9.9% 9.9% 14.0%
*Before goodwill, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
Benelux
The long-standing customer relationships built by CMG in
Benelux remained the key factor in delivering a stable margin on
revenues that declined 4% sequentially. Managed services,
including human resources and payroll, grew by nearly 10%.
Renewals of framework contracts, common in this part of our
business and negotiated over recent months, have been at broadly
stable rates but volumes remain weak across many of our
customers. In Belgium, we implemented some redundancies
before the close of the period in the light of the proposed merger
while, in the Netherlands, we carried through the redundancies in
the north of the country announced in the first half of 2002.
Public sector revenues declined 8%, a disappointing performance
caused largely by the government elected in the first half being
unable to carry through its mandate and the consequent calling of
a second election. As a result, many new projects remained on
hold, although the desire to reduce overall expenditure in the
future will require new IT systems to facilitate efficiencies. We
implemented a warehouse system for the logistical centre of the
Royal Dutch Air Force and for the Military Medical Logistical
Centre of the Dutch armed forces.
Revenues in industry, distribution and transport declined 4%.
As elsewhere, SAP business remained firm with customers such
as Heineken, as did outsource revenues from long-standing
customers like Wolters Kluwer. We also signed a new outsource
contract with Pathé, the cinema group, which began in January
2003. The Dutch railways renewed our status as preferred
supplier and placed a contract with us to rebuild their rail test
and simulation system. We developed a new order system for
the Aalsmeer Flower Auction and an electronic archiving system
for films and soundtracks to be delivered to Sony for use by the
Dutch archive of the broadcasting unions.
Energy and utilities grew revenues 7%, largely through continued
account development in Shell and the broader petrochemicals
sector. Financial services declined 3% in a very difficult trading
environment. Our track record as a preferred supplier to local
banks and insurers has enabled us to outperform many of our
competitors. Revenues from ABN AMRO and ING, generally two
of our largest customers, were higher during the period,
supported by an increasing managed services element.
Telecommunications declined 13%, although we continued to
work for most of the main operators. We made some headway
with mobile solutions such as ticketing, SMS-based interactive
services for TV companies, and i-mode services for Rabo Bank. www.logicacmg.com Financial review 27
6 months Pro forma unaudited
to  31 December 2002 % growth % calendar 2002 % growth %
Revenue by sector £’m sequential share £’m year-on-year share
Public sector 1 .0 (76) 2. 1 5. 1 122 5. 1
Industry, distribution & transport 19.9 3 41 .5 39.3 (1 1) 39.6
Energy & utilities 2. 1 31 4.4 3.7 106 3.7
Financial services 21 . 1 (1) 44.0 42.5 (9) 42.8
T elecommunications 3.9 (19) 8.0 8.7 (28) 8.8
Total IT services 48.0 (6) 100.0 99.3 (7) 100.0
H2 02 H1 02 FY 02 FY 01
Operating margin* (1 .3%) 2.9% 0.9% 2.6%
*Before goodwill, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
France
6 months Pro forma unaudited
to  31 December 2002 % growth % calendar 2002 % growth %
Revenue by sector £’m sequential share £’m year-on-year share
Public sector - (100) - 0.2 (67) 0.2
Industry, distribution & transport 38.5 23 57 .3 69.9 39 52.6
Energy & utilities 4.3 (37) 6.4 1 1 . 1 (1 5) 8.3
Financial services 23.2 (7) 34.5 48.2 (39) 36.2
T elecommunications 1 .2 (50) 1 .8 3.6 (74) 2.7
Total IT services 67 .2 2 100.0 133.0 (16) 100.0
Organic decline
#
(10) (21)
H2 02 H1 02 FY 02 FY 01
Operating margin* 4.9% 4.7% 4.8% 5.7%
# The results for Germany above include the consolidation of Nord IT from 1 July 2002, from when effective economic control was 
exercised by LogicaCMG. Excluding Nord IT revenues of £8. 1 million, organic revenue declined in the half by 10%. Nord IT contributed 
£0.6 million to the operating profit for the period.
* Before goodwill, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
Germany
France lags behind other European markets in the business cycle
for IT services and LogicaCMG saw revenues drop by 6%,
compared to the 3% decline in the previous six months, and
came under increasing pressure through the period. The
combined business was loss making, reflecting the very difficult
market conditions. Pricing pressure has been notably acute,
partly because major local IT services companies have had
difficulty in rescaling their operations to the reduced demand. 
The SAP arena, particularly the HR part, held up better than
most, representing a significant part of our business. It
contributed to the rise of 31% in revenues from the energy and
utilities sector, where we work for electricity generators, water
companies and petrochemical businesses.
The German economy did not improve and the market for IT
services remained subject to project cancellations, reduced
budgets and lengthened decision-making. Again, the IDT sector
was the only one posting growth, at 23%. In addition to the
inclusion of Nord IT, this was largely through the automotive
specialisation, including improved positions with Volkswagen and
DaimlerChrysler. We are piloting a global CRM solution for
General Motors in both Germany and the UK.
SAP business grew both in IDT and in the financial services
sectors. The decline in financial services was held to 7%, largely
due to renewals on our regulatory reporting software.  28 Financial review LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
6 months Pro-forma unaudited
to  31 December 2002 % growth % calendar 2002 % growth %
Revenue by sector £’m sequential share £’m year-on-year share
Public sector 8.2 34 13.9 14.3 54 1 1 .8
Industry, distribution & transport 6.6 74 1 1 . 1 10.4 (23) 8.6
Energy & utilities 25.4 (6) 42.9 52.4 (5) 43.2
Financial services 1 1 . 1 41 18.8 19.0 28 1 5.7
T elecommunications 7 .9 (54) 13.3 25. 1 (42) 20.7
Total IT services 59.2 (5) 100.0 121 .2 (1 1) 100.0
Organic decline (10) (13)
H2 02 H1 02 FY 02 FY 01
Operating margin* 1.2% (2.9)% (0.9)% 3.8%
*Before goodwill, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
Rest of World
Revenues in the remaining parts of Europe rose by 31%, assisted
by a strong performance in the Czech Republic which contributed
£21.9 million of the total revenues. Around the turn of the year
we signed our largest ever Nordic order, with Luottokunta, the
leading payment card service in Finland. 
The system to be delivered will support new security features to
achieve full compliance with the global EMV (Europay, Mastercard
and Visa) standards, allowing all banks and retailers in Finland
using Luottokunta’s services to process chip card transactions. 
We secured our first significant business during the year from
Electricidade do Portugal which gives us a foothold in the Iberian
market as energy liberalisation progresses there.
6 months Pro-forma unaudited
to  31 December 2002 % growth % calendar 2002 % growth %
Revenue by sector £’m sequential share £’m year-on-year share
Public sector 1 .0 67 3.4 1 .6 33 3. 1
Industry, distribution & transport 2.2 (54) 7 .5 7 .0 (1 5) 13.4
Energy & utilities 5. 1 21 1 7 .3 9.3 (21) 1 7 .9
Financial services 10.4 9 35.3 19.9 1 1 38.3
T elecommunications 10.8 218 36.5 14.2 23 27 .3
Total IT services 29.5 31 100.0 52.0 3 100.0
Organic growth
#
38 1 1
H2 02 H1 02 FY 02 FY 01
Operating margin* 1.4% 2.7% 1 .9% (0.4%)
#
CMG Denmark was disposed of in April 2002. It contributed £1. 1 million of revenue in the calendar year 2002.
* Before goodwill, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
Rest of Europe
Performance in the Americas, the Middle East, Asia Pacific and
Australia reflected global economics, with revenues down 5%. The
region as a whole made only a small profit due to losses in South
America and the network planning business active in the Americas. 
Australia continued to perform solidly and, while revenues and
profits were flat, this represented market share growth in the
difficult trading environment. During the period, we acquired
eGlobal Pacific, a leading SAP consultancy that employed around
65 people and whose sector experience mapped well with our
own. We now employ over 800 people in the country. In July, the
business recorded its biggest ever order, signing a AUS$25 million
contract with the Department of Public Works and Services in
New South Wales. www.logicacmg.com Financial review 29
The Middle East grew with major contracts from Saudi T elecom and
the Saudi Arabia Monetary Authority, the latter for a new payments
and electronic funds transfer solution.
The business in Asia declined as the previously strong telecoms
marketplace continued to fall away. However , the relatively small
operations in Singapore and Malaysia continued to grow by focusing
on local development of key international accounts, such as Hewlett
Packard and Deutsche Bank.
North America also declined, although we strengthened its forward
position in November by acquiring Great Lakes T echnologies Group
in Detroit, a leading IT solutions provider in the automotive sector ,
which brings important expertise and customer relations with Ford,
General Motors and DaimlerChrysler . In the financial services sector ,
we secured a contract from Allfirst Bank in Baltimore, Maryland, to
implement our BESS payment and HotScan solutions.
Offshore services
We provide offshore project management, product
development and support services from our facilities in India
and the Czech Republic to customers on a global basis. We also
utilise the facilities to lower the cost of our own product
development when appropriate. The centres are involved in a
growing number of LogicaCMG’s accounts, including telecoms
operators like IndoSat-M3, banking institutions such as Credit
Suisse First Boston and Central Bank of Sri Lanka, energy
companies like Shell and Centrica, and service companies like
Britannia Airways. We expect offshore services to be a growing
element in our propositions to customers and will grow our
facilities and staff levels accordingly.
The wireless market remained extremely challenging as problems of
debt and concerns about the timing of new technology and services
persisted. The global economic environment increases the
uncertainty around new service introduction and the likely take-up
rates by consumers. Lack of standardisation and interoperability, as
well as availability of new handsets at realistic prices, are further
concerns. During 2002, these factors encouraged many operators
who wanted to be early entrants into the photo-messaging arena to
accept single source, bundled deals, even in some cases against the
recommendations of their technical trials. Against this backdrop,
LogicaCMG’s current market share in excess of 20% of MMS
installations is a notable achievement. 
In the six months to December , we made a profit of £1 .0 million* on
revenues of £160.9 million. Of this, 66% came from new licence
sales and the associated hardware platforms, 23% from maintenance
and support contracts, and 1 1% for special customisation work. In
the Logica part of the business, we carried through the
rationalisation announced in the previous half. 
EMEA Asia Pacific Americas Japan TOT AL
£’m % £’m % £’m % £’m % £’m %
change change change change change
H1- H1- H1- H1- H1-
Revenue by sector H202 H202 H202 H202 H202
Messaging 51 .6 41 12.9 (25) 21 .9 (27) 12.6 (51) 99.0 (10)
Multimedia/internet 1 5.6 4 4.5 (2) 1 .3 1 ,200 - - 21 .4 9
Unified comms 4.5 18 2.2 (8) 3.3 313 - - 10.0 43
Billing/payment 21 .6 (5) 4.6 (21) 4.3 (1 7) - - 30.5 (10)
Total 93.32024.2(19)30.8(15)12.6(51)160.9(5)
H2 02 H1 02 FY 02 FY 01
Operating margin* 0.6% 1 . 1% 0.9% 12.5%
*Before goodwill, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
Wireless networks 30 Financial review LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
The framework agreement signed with T elecom Italia (TIM) in the
second half was encouraging because it indicated a willingness to
evaluate system performance on its merits once handsets are more
freely available and customers are generating a growing volume of
messages. We believe that the advantages of our solutions-oriented
approach are compelling and that operators will increasingly value a
strong, independent choice.
Despite the overall decline in the SMS marketplace, we secured a
number of significant orders from tier one European operators in
the period under review, as well as other orders from customers
including Cellcom in Israel, Stet Hellas and PTK Centretel. The
volume of SMS messages has continued to grow in most countries
and the additional volume contributed by business, promotional and
entertainment traffic is finally becoming meaningful.
As mentioned above, we made some further progress with sales and
implementation of multimedia messaging systems and geographic
spread has now broadened considerably, as Asia Pacific rapidly
follows the European market. We implemented systems in Singapore
and the Philippines, in addition to the Hutchison 3G systems in
Australia, Hong Kong and Thailand. In addition, although the
marketplace for unified communications is developing slowly, it
represents significant potential, not only in driving the business
market for mobile data services, but also as the large installed base
of old voice mail systems is replaced by IP-based solutions.
Billing and payments, including prepaid, delivered revenues of
£30.5 million, including installations in TM Cellular in Malaysia
and Cosmote in Greece.
On announcement of the merger , there was a pressing imperative to
move swiftly to decisions about a merged portfolio of solutions for
the combined wireless business. From a customer perspective, we
needed to provide reassurance that existing systems would be
supported and that customers need not defer planned purchases.
The results for the six months show that the impact of the short-
term uncertainty was well contained, although some effect inevitably
continued into the early part of 2003. We then needed to convince
them that our future offering would combine the best elements of
both operations in a way that provides an effective independent
alternative to the infrastructure and handset providers. We began
that process on an individual basis during January 2003 and
announced our strategy publicly in February. Initial customer and
industry reactions have been encouraging.
Our enhanced value proposition addresses the challenge facing
mobile operators whereby they have to compete more on the
personal services provided to their customers, rather than on just
the provision of reliable coverage at a competitive price. The future
is about delivering a rich user experience across a myriad of services
and devices, many of which will be provided by third parties. This
move up the value chain to content and business enablement plays
to LogicaCMG’s strengths, with our extensive product portfolio,
broad industry knowledge, strong strategic alliances and proven
systems integration skills. It is at the heart of the multimedia and
unified communications platform that we are delivering to
Hutchison 3G. Business enablement requires, for example, real-time
payment solutions that allow flexible content-based charging to end-
users, adaptable and compelling revenue share models for content
providers, management of customer loyalty programmes and
common provisioning and media storage systems. In presenting our
strategy at the 3GSM World Congress in Cannes, we used the slogan
"making mobile services work", which epitomises why our belief in
the importance of the mChannel remains undiminished by the
short-term operating environment.
Staff
The headcount for the group on 31 December 2002 was
23,097, following the completion of previously announced
restructuring during the period. This compares with 24,040 
at the end of June 2002 on a pro forma basis.
At the time of the merger , we announced that further rationalisation
would be carried out in 2003 to eliminate overlapping functions and
to align resources in line with projected demand. Our staff are
located in many different countries and, apart from important
considerations related to fair and sensitive handling of individuals,
we are being careful to observe all due consultation processes
required by local legislation. This has precluded us from making a
single announcement related to projected redundancies, both
voluntary and compulsory, across the group as a whole. T o date, we
have proposed headcount reductions of around 1 ,725 around the
world. We estimate the final figure will be around 2,200,
representing some 9.5% of the workforce, most of whom will leave
our operations during the current financial year .
Goodwill
In accordance with FRS 1 1 (Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill),
the carrying values of the group’s goodwill balances have been
compared to their recoverable amounts, represented by their value
in use to the group. The value in use has been derived from five-year
discounted cash flow projections from 31 December 2002. After this
five-year period, the projections use a long-term growth rate
compatible with projections for the countries concerned. The
discount rate used to arrive at this calculation was 14% on a pre-tax
basis. The review has resulted in an exceptional charge to operating
costs of £444.6 million in respect of various acquisitions made by the
group in the past, principally Admiral and pdv. This adjustment
reflects the continued reduction in valuations on the financial
markets since our previous review. www.logicacmg.com Financial review 31
The ongoing annual goodwill charge following the impairment will
be approximately £24 million.
Restructuring and other exceptional items
In the six months to 31 December 2002, we carried through the
previously announced restructuring in Logica’s mobile networks
business and CMG’s Noord Nederland operation and took some
actions related to the proposed merger which became effective on
completion. A total charge of £7 .7 million was made in the period
under review: £3.5 million related to the CMG Netherlands costs;
the balance of £4.2 million was merger-related. Merger transaction
costs of £22.6 million were also booked in the period, following
completion of the merger on 30 December 2002.
The largest elements of the restructuring will be headcount
reductions as described above and rationalisation of our property
portfolio. Our current estimate of the total costs for carrying out
these activities is £100 million, the majority of which will be
provided for during the first half of 2003. These actions are expected
to achieve savings of £80 million on an annualised basis. Around
50% will be achieved in the current year , with the full effect coming
through in calendar year 2004.
Funding of pension schemes
The group has three significant pension schemes based on defined
benefits, one originating from CMG UK; one from CMG
Netherlands; and a smaller scheme from Logica Netherlands. All
have been closed to new members but have ongoing commitments
to their existing members. A full triennial actuarial valuation of the
ex-CMG UK scheme is being undertaken to determine the
appropriate funding rate for the next three years. On completion of
this exercise, a detailed SSAP 24 review will be performed to finalise
the accounting impact of the new valuation. Initial indications from
the actuary suggest that the funding rates will increase but that no
one-off injection will be required. Under FRS 17 , which is based on
the market value of assets, the combined deficit of the group’s
pension schemes before tax is £37 .4 million at 31 December 2002
(30 June 2002: £17 . 1 million deficit), representing a UK deficit of
£46.9 million (30 June 2002: £37 . 1 million) and a Dutch surplus of
£9.5 million (30 June 2002: £20.0 million). 
Cash flow and net debt
The net debt at 31 December 2002 stood at £107 . 1 million 
(£91 .7 million at 30 June 2002), following the netting out of Logica’s
cash balances against CMG’s outstanding debt and after payment
for acquisitions made during the period. Cash flow from operating
activities (before restructuring costs and other exceptional items)
was £59.8 million, giving a cash conversion of 101%. Free cash flow
after interest, taxation, capital expenditure, but before restructuring
costs and other exceptional items was £37 .5 million. Committed
bank facilities amounting to £350 million are in place.
Dividends
The board’s dividend policy is to ensure that shareholders
benefit directly and smoothly from the successful growth of the
business, while continuing to provide sufficient funds to invest
in future growth. For the period ended 31 December 2002, the
board has recommended a dividend of 3.0p per share to be paid
on 16 May 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of
business on 22 April 2003. Based on the total dividend of 
5.4p per Logica share for the financial year ended 30 June 2002,
it is expected that, in the current climate, LogicaCMG will
maintain the value of the dividend in real terms for the financial
year ending 31 December 2003.
Seamus Keating
Group finance director Cor Stutterheim (56) #
Cor was appointed non-executive chairman of
LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica and
CMG in December 2002. He was previously
chairman of CMG for seven years. Cor joined
CMG in the Netherlands in 1970 as a systems
and programming consultant and held various
management positions before being appointed
to the board in 1977 . He became deputy
chairman in January 1995 and was appointed
chairman in August 1995. He is a non-executive
director of Polar Capital Partners Ltd and a
member of the advisory board of ABN AMRO
Holding N.V and GIMV-ICT .
Martin Read (53) +*
Martin became group chief executive of
LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica
and CMG in December 2002. Martin joined
the Logica board as managing director and
chief executive in 1993. He was formerly
managing director of the GEC Marconi
Radar and Control Systems group of
companies. Martin is a non-executive
director of Boots Group plc, having been
appointed a non-executive director of The
Boots Company plc in 1999, and a non-
executive director of British Airways plc. 
He was a non-executive director of ASDA
Group plc from 1996 to 1999.
Seamus Keating (39) +*
Seamus was appointed group finance director
and continued as a member of the LogicaCMG
board following the merger of Logica and
CMG in December 2002, having been Logica
group finance director since February that year
and director of group finance since 1999. He
joined Logica from Getronics, where he was
finance director of Olivetti Solutions, the global
IT solutions business of the Olivetti group,
immediately prior to its purchase by Wang (in
turn purchased by Getronics). Prior to that
appointment, he was finance director of
Olivetti's UK operations, having joined its
finance function in 1989. 
Jim McKenna (47) +*
Jim was appointed chief executive, UK and
Ireland, and continued as a member of the
LogicaCMG board following the merger of
Logica and CMG in December 2002. Prior to
this appointment, Jim was supervisory
managing director for Logica in continental
Europe and the Middle East and a member of
the Logica main board. He formerly worked
for GEC-Marconi and also Plessey Company
plc. He is a non-executive director of AWG plc. 
Ian Taylor (57) +*
Ian was appointed group human resources
director and a member of the LogicaCMG
board following the merger of Logica and
CMG. Ian was previously human resources and
organisation director of CMG from April
2000, having joined CMG in 1994 as chairman
of its UK operations. Prior to joining CMG Ian
ran his own consulting business. Between 1983
and 1993 he was managing director and
subsequently chief executive of Datasolve.
Before 1983 he was responsible for all ICL
system development programmes and later
ICL's worldwide customer service organisation.
He is a director of Intellect (Information
Technology, T elecommunications &
Electronics Association) and chairman of its
operations board.
Anthony Cole (41) *
Anthony was appointed chief executive, France,
Germany and Central Europe, and continued as
a member of the executive committee of
LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica
and CMG. Prior to this appointment, Anthony
was supervisory managing director of Logica
UK and chairman of the energy and utility
international line of business of Logica. He has
been a Logica executive committee member
since May 2000. From 1994 to 1997 , Anthony
was divisional director of Logica's UK defence
division and director of the UK energy and
utilities division from 1997 to 1999. 
Royston Hoggarth (41) *
Royston was appointed chief executive,
International, of LogicaCMG following the
merger of Logica and CMG. Royston joined
Logica in 1997 as director of international lines
of business and group marketing director , with
responsibility for the company's strategic
development in the financial services, telecoms,
energy and utilities, and industry, distribution
and transport sectors. Royston has previously
been supervisory managing director for Logica
mobile networks and consulting and was also
responsible for Logica's business across Asia
Pacific. He was formerly a general manager at
IBM, where he was responsible for the group's
retail brands and products worldwide. He is a
non-executive director of Intercede Group plc. 
Chris McDermott (45) *
Chris was appointed chief executive, wireless
networks, and continued as an executive
committee member of LogicaCMG following
the merger of Logica and CMG. Chris joined
Logica in May 2001 and had been supervisory
managing director responsible for messaging
and mobile payments. Prior to that, he was vice
president and general manager of the
worldwide public sector business at Unisys,
having previously run their worldwide
commercial and European telecoms business.
Before Unisys, Chris enjoyed successful spells at
Nortel and GEC Avionics. 
Hugo Schaap (55) *
Hugo was appointed group marketing director
and a member of the executive committee of
LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica
and CMG. He joined CMG in 1973 as a
consultant and held various management
positions before becoming a national director
in 1989, responsible for CMG's business in the
finance sector . He was appointed country
chairman for Benelux in September 1996 and
became a group director in April 2000. 
Directors’ biographies
Cor Stutterheim Martin Read Seamus Keating Jim McKenna 
Ian Taylor Anthony Cole Royston Hoggarth Chris McDermott
32 Directors’ biographies LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Hugo Schaap Thomas Ivarson Bernd Lantermann
Thomas Ivarson (48) *
Thomas was appointed executive vice president,
wireless networks and a member of the executive
committee of LogicaCMG following the merger of
Logica and CMG. He was previously CEO of CMG
Wireless Data Solutions. Thomas joined CMG in
October 200 1 , bringing extensive experience of
international telecoms and software products in the
wireless and wireline data market, covering all
aspects of business management. He worked for
Ericsson from 1 980 to 1 995 where he held a
number of positions in engineering, product
management and marketing, and finally as general
manager of software for end-user features in local
switching systems. Between 1 995 and 200 1 , he was
the CEO of EHPT , a joint venture company of
Ericsson and Hewlett-Packard, focused on customer
and network management applications.
Bernd Lantermann (58) *
Bernd was appointed group international
lines of business director and a member of
the executive committee of LogicaCMG
following the merger of Logica and CMG.
He joined CMG in 1993 as chairman of its
German operations and became a group
director in April 2000. Previously, he worked
as vice president and partner in Booz-Allen
& Hamilton Inc. responsible for its IT
business in Germany, Austria and
Switzerland. Prior to that, he worked for the
CAP Gemini group as managing director
responsible for its German operations. 
Wout Koppers (58) *
Wout was appointed chief executive, the
Netherlands and Belgium, on 4 March 2003.
Prior to this appointment, Wout was chief
executive of LogicaCMG, the Netherlands.
Wout joined CMG in the Netherlands in
1971 as a consultant and held various
management positions before being
appointed to the Dutch board in 1978. He
was appointed chief executive, Benelux, in
2000 and in that capacity was a member of
the executive committee of CMG.
Wim Dik (64) #
Wim was appointed a non-executive director
of LogicaCMG in December 2002, having
been a non-executive director of CMG since
May 2001. He is a professor at the Technical
University Delft in the Technology and
Management Faculty. Previously he was
chairman and CEO of "Koninklijke KPN NV",
Royal Dutch Telecom. Prior to that he was
chairman and CEO of Royal PTT Nederland
(telecom and post), chairman of Unilever's
Dutch operations and Minister for Foreign
Trade in the Dutch Government (1981-82).
He holds non-executive positions with:
Unilever, ABN AMRO Bank, TNT Post Group,
Holland Casino, Van Gansewinkel Groep,
AVIVA plc (formerly Commercial General and
Norwich Union plc), Tele Atlas, Spencer
Stuart, Ernst & Young (Netherlands). 
Wim is a Grand Officer in the order of
Oranje Nassau and a Commander in the
order of the North Star (Sweden).
Angela Knight (52) #
Angela continued as a non-executive director
of LogicaCMG following the merger of
Logica and CMG, having been a non-
executive director of Logica since July 1999.
She is currently chief executive of the
Association of Private Client Investment
Managers and Stockbrokers (APCIMS). She is
also deputy chairman of Scottish Widows and
a non-executive director of South East Water
plc, International Financial Services London
(IFSL) and the Port of London Authority.
Angela was previously the Member of
Parliament for Erewash (1992-97) and
Economic Secretary to HM Treasury between
1995 and 1997. 
George Loudon (59) #
George was appointed a non-executive
director of LogicaCMG in December 2002,
having previously been a non-executive
director of CMG since 1998. He was also
chairman of the CMG group's remuneration
committee and a member of the audit and
nomination committees. He is currently a
director of The Evolution Group plc (formerly
Beeson Gregory Group plc), as well as holding
other non-executive positions. From 1988 until
1992 he was a director of Midland Bank plc.
Previously he spent 12 years with Amsterdam-
Rotterdam Bank NV ,  five years as a member
of the managing board.
Helmut Mamsch (58) #
Helmut continued as a non-executive director
of LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica
and CMG, having been a non-executive
director of Logica since 1997 . He is the senior
independent non-executive director and
deputy chairman. He is a former member of
the board of management of VEBA AG (now
E.ON AG) and was concurrently, since 1998,
chairman of VEBA Electronics Inc, St
Clara/USA and MEMC Electronic Materials
Inc, St Peters/USA. Previously he was chairman
of Stinnes AG. 
Richard North (53) #
Richard continued as a non-executive director
of LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica
and CMG, having been appointed as a non-
executive director of Logica in February 2002
and as chairman of the audit committee of
Logica in April 2002. He is currently chief
executive officer of Six Continents Hotels and
group finance director of Six Continents plc. He
is chairman of Britvic Soft Drinks and is a non-
executive director of FelCor T rust Inc. 
Executive director +
Executive committee member *
Non-executive director #
Wout Koppers Wim Dik Angela Knight
George Loudon Helmut Mamsch Richard North
www.logicacmg.com Directors’ biographies 33 The directors present their report together with the financial
statements of the company and its subsidiaries for the six months
ended 31 December 2002. Following the merger of Logica plc
with CMG plc during the period, the company’s year end was
changed from 30 June to 31 December. These financial
statements have been prepared using merger accounting
principles. The financial statements contain unaudited pro forma
information for the 12 months to December 2002. The financial
statements will be laid before the shareholders at the annual
general meeting to be held on 15 May 2003.
Principal activities
Throughout the period, LogicaCMG companies, including
branches, were in the business of providing information
technology services, concentrating on:
• the marketing, design, production, integration and
maintenance of custom-built software and associated
hardware systems
• consultancy, applications management, outsourcing 
and project management in the field of information
technology and
• the design, development, implementation and marketing of
software products and the reusable elements of applications
software, called systems kernels
Merger 
On 5 November 2002, the boards of Logica plc and CMG plc
announced that they had agreed the terms for a proposed
merger of the two companies. Under the merger, CMG plc’s
shareholders received 0.4827 Logica plc shares for each CMG plc
share held. Shareholder approval for the merger was obtained at
the extraordinary general meeting on 20 December 2002 which
also approved the change of the company’s name to LogicaCMG
plc. On 30 December 2002, the company announced the
completion of the merger with CMG plc.
Results and dividends
Consolidated turnover amounted to £882.5 million for the six
months to 31 December 2002, compared with £2,008.8 million for
the year ended 30 June 2002. Loss attributable to shareholders
was £458.3 million for the period, compared with a loss of 
£835.2 million for the year ended 30 June 2002. Profit before tax
(before goodwill, restructuring costs, exceptional items and
amounts written off investments) was £54.5 million compared to
£160. 1 million for the previous year. Adjusted basic earnings per
share before goodwill, restructuring costs, exceptional items and
amounts written off investments were 5.2p (year ended 30 June
2002: 15.6p). The basic unadjusted losses per share were 62.4p 
(year ended 30 June 2002: unadjusted losses per share of 1 14.2p). 
Net debt balances and liquid resources at 31 December 2002
stood at £107.1 million (30 June 2002: £91.7 million).
Prior to the merger, CMG plc paid an interim dividend of 1. 1p per
share on 15 November 2002. The directors are recommending a
final dividend of 3.0p per share. If approved, the final dividend
will be paid on 16 May 2003 to eligible shareholders on the
register at close of business on 22 April 2003.
Retained losses amounting to £480.3 million have been carried
to reserves (year ended 30 June 2002: £877.3 million loss).
Business review
A review of the development of the business during the year is
given on pages 10 to 19. Included in the review are references
to LogicaCMG's future prospects.
Acquisitions
Details of the acquisitions completed during the period are
given in note 22 to the accounts.
Creditor payment policy and practice
The Companies Act 1985 (Directors’ Report) (Statement of
Payment Practice) Regulations 1997 requires the company to
make a statement of its policy and practice on the payment of
creditors. The company and its subsidiaries seek the best
possible terms from suppliers appropriate to their businesses
and, in placing orders, give consideration to quality, delivery,
price and the terms of payment which will be agreed with
suppliers when the details of each transaction are agreed. The
company and its subsidiaries will continue to honour their
contractual and other legal obligations and to pay creditors on
the dates agreed in contract and purchase orders. As at 
31 December 2002 the number of days of annual purchases
represented by year end creditors for the group amounted to
52 days (year ended 30 June 2002: 53 days).
Research and development
During the period, LogicaCMG invested £32.0 million in
research and development (year ended 30 June 2002: £82.5
million). These figures are net of funding by European research
institutions and other clients. LogicaCMG believes that research
and development is also effective when done in close co-
operation with clients and so continues to undertake research
and development work on a funded basis, ensuring that real
market needs are being directly addressed. 
No development costs have been capitalised.
Report of directors
34 Report of directors LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Directors
The directors are listed on pages 32 and 33.
There have been the following changes in the composition of
the board:
• on 30 December 2002 Alistair Crawford was appointed an
executive director 
• on 30 December 2002 Wim Dik was appointed as a non-
executive director
• on 30 December 2002 George Loudon was appointed as a
non-executive director
• on 30 December 2002 Cor Stutterheim was appointed as
non-executive chairman
• on 30 December 2002 Ian Taylor was appointed an executive
director 
• on 30 December 2002 Sir Frank Barlow retired as non-
executive chairman 
• on 30 December 2002 Roxanne Decyk retired as a non-
executive director 
• on 30 December 2002 Andrew Given retired as an executive
director and
• on 4 March 2003 Alistair Crawford resigned as an executive
director
The interests of the directors in the shares of the company are
shown in the report of the remuneration committee.
None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of
significance to which the parent company or a subsidiary was a
party during the financial year.
At the forthcoming annual general meeting Helmut Mamsch and
Jim McKenna retire and offer themselves for re-election in
accordance with the Articles of Association. Wim Dik, George
Loudon, Cor Stutterheim and Ian Taylor, having been appointed
since the last annual general meeting, offer themselves for
election in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Directors’ and officers’ insurance
The company maintains insurance cover for all directors and
officers of group companies against liabilities which may be
incurred by them while acting as directors and officers.
Substantial holdings
As at 5 March 2003 the company had been notified that the
following were interested in 3% or more of the company's
share capital:
Name No. of shares Percentage
FMR Corp and its direct and 68,087,847 9.09
indirect subsidiaries and 
Fidelity International Limited and 
its direct and indirect subsidiaries
UBS Global Asset Management 75,397,124 10.06
Holding (No.2) Limited
Legal and General Investment 26,835,154 3.58
Management Limited
Morley Fund Management Limited 30,193,508 4.03
Employment policies
The group operates in a number of countries and its
employment practices vary to meet local conditions and
requirements. In all cases they are established on the basis of
best practice in that country. It is group policy to ensure equal
opportunity for employment of disabled people, ethnic
minorities and women. Wherever possible the employment of
members of staff who become disabled will be continued and
appropriate training and career development will be offered.
Employee participation
One of the group's key objectives is to achieve a shared
commitment by all employees to the success of the business.
Throughout the world there is close consultation between
employees and management on matters of mutual interest and
information is disseminated through individual performance
reviews, team briefings and in-house newsletters. 
The LogicaCMG Employee Communication Forum (“the
Forum”), with elected employee representatives, exists with the
aim of establishing a means of social dialogue for information
and communications with the employees of the LogicaCMG
group of companies. The Forum promotes the exchange of
views and information with the aim of extending understanding
and facilitating the introduction of policy changes to the
LogicaCMG group. The Forum has been set up under the
voluntary arrangements in the EU Directives on European
Works Councils.
Employees are encouraged to participate in the progress and
profitability of the group through the Employee Equity
Partnership Plan, savings related share option schemes, the US
Stock Purchase Plan and performance related bonus payments.
www.logicacmg.com Report of directors 35 36 Report of directors LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
Environmental policy
Recognising that LogicaCMG's operations are themselves of
minimal environmental impact, LogicaCMG's environmental
policy is to:
• meet the statutory requirements placed on us
• apply good environmental practice both in our business
operations and in the development of systems and products
for our customers, recognising however that we become
contractually obliged to conform with their requirements and
• aim to recycle as much of our waste products as is economically
practicable to do. Those items that cannot be recycled will be
disposed of in an environmentally friendly way
Charitable donations and policy
The company does not make financial donations to charities, as
it believes this is a matter for individual stakeholders. However,
the company actively encourages and supports staff to
volunteer their time and skills to local community and
charitable activities or to participate in corporate events that
also share charitable objectives. For example, employees have
used their expertise to install computers in schools, both in the
UK and overseas, and have worked on projects at charities such
as Shelter, a UK charity supporting homeless people. Where
legal restrictions allow, the company provides direct support to
good causes through donations of redundant assets such as
computer equipment.
Staff may also contribute to charities by making regular
payments directly from salary through our give-as-you-earn
schemes. These schemes aim to provide funds that will make a
valuable contribution to the work of charities operating in a
wide range of charitable sectors and geographic regions. In the
UK, the scheme is managed in conjunction with the Charities
Aid Foundation. Activities vary widely, from support for
charities such as Brainwave in the UK, which provides home
monitors for brain-injured children, to the provision of funding
for locally produced textbooks for schools in Malawi. 
Staff also raised over £70,000 for the Save the Children charity
when the company participated in the BT Global Challenge
yacht race.
Fixed assets
The changes in the fixed assets of the group are disclosed in
notes 12, 13 and 14 to the accounts.
Remuneration committee report
The remuneration committee report is set out on pages 
38 to 45.
Auditors
Due to the planned conversion of our auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers to a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)
from 1 January 2003, PricewaterhouseCoopers resigned on 
31 December 2002 and the directors appointed its successor,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Deloitte & Touche, as joint
auditors. PricewaterhouseCoopers and Deloitte & Touche were
Logica plc’s and CMG plc’s previous auditors respectively. A
resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and
Deloitte & Touche as joint auditors to the company will be
proposed at the annual general meeting.
Repurchase of company shares
Resolution number 11 in the notice of the forthcoming annual
general meeting proposes granting the directors the
unconditional and general authority to make one or more
market purchases for the purposes of Section 166 of the
Companies Act 1985 of the company’s ordinary shares on such
terms and in such manner as the directors shall determine,
subject to the following:
• the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share
shall not exceed 5% above the mid-market prices of the
ordinary shares of the company (as derived from the Daily
Official List of the London Stock Exchange) for the five
business days before the purchase is made. The minimum price
per ordinary share is the nominal value thereof and in each
case will be exclusive of any expenses payable by the company
• the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be
purchased pursuant to this authority shall be limited to
74,904,768 shares, which is equivalent to 10% of the
company’s issued share capital as at 5 March 2003
• this authority shall remain in force until the conclusion of the
next annual general meeting of the company but will
terminate on the date falling 12 months from the date that
this resolution is passed if the annual general meeting has not
been held by that date and 
• the company may agree before the above authority terminates
to purchase ordinary shares where the purchase will or may be
executed after the authority terminates (either in whole or in
part). The company may complete such a purchase even
though the authority has ended www.logicacmg.com Report of directors 37
Authority to allot securities
Resolution number 12 in the notice of the forthcoming annual
general meeting proposes the renewal, in accordance with
Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, of the period expiring on
the date of the 2003 annual general meeting, of the directors’
authority to allot the authorised but as yet unissued share capital
of the company at the date of this year’s annual general meeting.
The maximum amount of shares subject to such an authority
would be 249,682,560 representing 33% of the company’s total
issued share capital at 5 March 2003. The directors do not have
any present intention of exercising this authority other than in
connection with the group's employee share schemes.
Under Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, equity securities in
the company may not be allotted for cash (otherwise than in
respect of an employee share scheme) without first being offered
pro rata to existing shareholders, unless the prior approval of the
shareholders is given in a general meeting. The directors consider
that it is in the best interests of the company that the relevant
authority given at the annual general meeting in 2002, which
expires on the date of the 2003 annual general meeting, should
be renewed in similar terms. Accordingly, a special resolution to
this effect is proposed as Resolution number 13 in the notice of
the forthcoming annual general meeting. The proposed authority
expires at the date of the 2004 annual general meeting and
permits the directors during this period to issue up to an
aggregate nominal amount of £3,745,238 (representing 5% of
the issued share capital at 5 March 2003) without first offering
them to existing shareholders.
UK Sharesave Scheme
Resolution number 14 in the notice of the forthcoming annual
general meeting proposes changes to the company’s 1995 UK
sharesave scheme that will allow the grant of three year options
and authorises the directors to do all such acts as they consider
necessary to carry the changes into effect including making
such minor amendments as may be necessary to obtain the
approval of the Inland Revenue and/or such other approvals as
the directors consider necessary. 
International Sharesave Scheme
Resolution number 15 in the notice of the forthcoming annual
general meeting proposes changes to the company’s 1995
international sharesave scheme that will allow the grant of
three-year options and authorises the directors to do all such
acts as they consider necessary to carry the changes into effect,
including making such minor amendments as may be necessary
to obtain such approvals as the directors consider necessary. 
Amendment to the company’s Articles of Association
Resolution number 16 in the notice of the forthcoming annual
general meeting proposes an amendment to the company’s
Articles of Association, which will increase the maximum
aggregate amounts payable to non-executive directors from
£200,000 to £600,000 per annum. It is proposed that the Articles
of Association be amended by deleting the amount “£200,000” in
the present Article 107 and replacing it with “£600,000”.
It is normal practice for companies to state within their Articles
of Association a maximum aggregate cap for non-executive
directors’ fees. The company’s current annual cap of £200,000
was adopted by shareholders in 1994. The proposed
amendment reflects the need to increase the cap in line with
business needs, in particular the increase in the number of non-
executive directors and the additional responsibilities assumed
by the new chairman and deputy chairman. This increase also
provides sufficient headroom for future flexibility.
By order of the board
P Weaver FCIS
Company secretary
5 March 2003 Remuneration report
This report by the remuneration committee has been approved by
the board for submission to shareholders in accordance with the
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The remuneration committee (‘the committee’)
(This part of the remuneration report is unaudited)
The committee is composed entirely of independent non-executive
directors. The current members are: Angela Knight (chairman),
George Loudon (from 30 December 2002) and Helmut Mamsch.
George Loudon was previously chairman of the CMG plc
remuneration committee and replaces Sir Frank Barlow who retired
from the board on 30 December 2002. The committee meets
regularly, normally at least four times per year .
The committee is responsible to the board and shareholders for:
• setting the overall policy on senior executive remuneration
• determining the remuneration packages of each of the executive
directors and executive committee members and
• overseeing the operation of the company’s employee 
share schemes
It has appointed and takes advice from independent executive
remuneration consultants New Bridge Street Consultants, as well as
consulting information from other independent sources and the
group human resources director . New Bridge Street Consultants also
provides assistance on the administration of the company’s share
schemes. Any of the executive directors may be invited to attend the
committee’s meetings, although no individual would be present
when their own remuneration was being discussed.
The constitution and operation of the committee complies with the
Code of Best Practice provisions on directors’ remuneration in the
Combined Code of the UK Listing Authority.
Remuneration policy
(This part of the remuneration report is unaudited)
The objectives of the remuneration policy for executive directors are:
• total remuneration, and its components, should be commercially
competitive to attract, motivate and retain executives of the
calibre required
• remuneration should align the interests of executives with those
of shareholders through the use of a combination of
performance-driven cash and equity based rewards in addition to
base salary and benefits
• the bulk of the total reward potential comprising annual bonus,
long-term incentives (the Executive Equity Partnership Plan) and
share options for each individual executive director should be
related to company performance
• performance targets should be stretching and
• the details of remuneration should be clear and easily understood
The remuneration policy is currently under review following 
the merger.
Components of remuneration
(This part of the remuneration report is unaudited)
The components of the remuneration packages for executive
directors are as follows:
Base salary
This is a fixed cash sum, payable monthly. Salaries are reviewed
annually in the light of individual performance and market
comparisons for similar jobs. Factors taken into account for
comparison purposes include company type and sector , measures of
company size (market capitalisation, turnover and employee
numbers) and degree of international scope. Base salary is the only
element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Seamus Keating’s salary was reviewed upon his appointment to the
board as group finance director in February 2002 and a further
adjustment to £250,000 will be implemented in March 2003. The
salaries of former Logica executive directors were reviewed, but not
increased, with effect from 1 July 2002, and those of former CMG
group executive directors were reviewed on 1 January 2002 and
were also not increased. Alistair Crawford’s salary was increased to
£350,000 on 1 March 2002, following his appointment as chief
executive officer of CMG plc. Logica plc moved its main annual
salary review date for all employees to 1 December , although the
2002 review in the UK, which included executive directors, was
deferred and the position will be re-examined in March 2003. Any
increases then awarded will be backdated to 1 December 2002.
Benefits
In addition to their pension provisions, described below, all executive
directors are entitled to company life assurance at four times annual
salary, permanent health cover , private medical insurance benefits
and medical check ups. Martin Read, Jim McKenna and Seamus
Keating are also entitled to car benefits (or cash allowance in lieu),
an interest free season ticket loan and personal accident insurance.
Andrew Given was also entitled to these benefits until his retirement
from the company on 31 December 2002.
Annual bonus
The structure of annual bonus arrangements for 2003 is described
below. These arrangements were implemented from 1 July 2002
for the previous Logica financial year of 1 July 2002 to 
30 June 2003. Following the merger with CMG, the bonus
arrangements were applied to the six-month period ended 
31 December 2002 on a pro rata basis and a new scheme year of
1 January to 31 December 2003 was introduced.
Remuneration committee
38 Remuneration committee LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Annual bonuses may be paid up to an overall cap of 100% of salary
provided a combination of business and personal objectives are
achieved. A baseline bonus figure is generated according to
performance against a financial measure, which for 2003 will be
earnings per share as it was for the period 1 July to 
31 December 2002 (and for the previous Logica 2001/02 financial
year). From 1 July 2002, an additional measure of cash conversion
pre-exceptionals was introduced. A multiplier (between 0.5 and 1 . 1
for the period ended 31 December 2002, and between 0.5 and 1 .3
for 2003) derived from achievements against cash conversion
targets, is applied to this baseline bonus. A personal performance
multiplier (normally between 0.7 and 1 .3) is then applied to the
resulting bonus figure. This multiplier may be zero, in a case where
an executive director’s personal performance is judged unacceptable,
with the consequence that no bonus would be payable.
The threshold earnings per share figure set by the committee
before bonuses could be triggered was not met for the Logica
financial year ended 30 June 2002 and was also not met for the
period 1 July to 31 December 2002. 
The committee considers annually the choice of performance
measures and the targets to be met.
Executive Equity Partnership Plan
The company will continue to operate this plan which was approved
by Logica shareholders in 1998 and allows executive directors, and
other senior executives by invitation, to invest up to 50% of their
after tax annual bonus payment in company shares. If they remain in
the company’s employment and retain the shares for three years,
then subject to a performance condition being satisfied, the
company will match those shares up to a 1:1 gross of tax basis.
Although the plan was operated in 2002, Martin Read, 
Jim McKenna and Seamus Keating were unable to participate as a
consequence of no bonus payments being made to them.
Andrew Given was not eligible to join the plan due to his
impending retirement.
Alistair Crawford is not eligible to participate in the plan in the
coming year (were it to operate) due to his resignation as an
executive director.
Executive share options
The company will continue to operate the Executive Share Option
Scheme which was approved by shareholders in 1996. Option
grants are made to senior executives and managers across the
group, as well as to other staff with high potential, or to recognise
significant achievements. For executive directors, grants are
normally made after the declaration of the results. However, for
2003 any award will be deferred until after the declaration of the
company’s interim results. As part of the ongoing review of
executive remuneration following the merger, the maximum
allocation of options to an individual within a single financial year
will be re-examined.
Options may be exercised between the third and tenth
anniversary of the date of grant, provided the performance
condition has been met. The performance condition approved by
shareholders in 1996 was that the growth in earnings per share
(EPS)* should exceed the growth in UK Retail Price Index (RPI)
by an average of at least 7% per annum for any relevant three-
year period following the date of grant. The performance
conditions for future grants will be that EPS growth should
exceed growth in UK RPI by an average of at least 7% per
annum. If the average EPS growth during the performance period
is between 3% and 7% per annum, awards will be exercisable on
a pro rata basis between 20% and 100%. For performance below
3% per annum no options will be exercisable.
The remuneration committee has determined that, for 
future grants, retesting will be limited to two retests following
maturity, although the committee will reserve the right to
restrict this to a single retest if this is deemed appropriate. In
addition, the base point for the performance period will remain
fixed for all tests.
Option grants are made with the expectation that the option
holders will, upon exercise, retain at least 20% of the shares after
taking account of the associated costs of exercise.
Performance conditions (Executive Equity Partnership Plan and
Executive Share Option Scheme)
EPS is used as a share scheme performance measure in over 70%
of share option schemes operated by FTSE 350 companies. The
company’s EPS growth remains substantially within the control of
the directors and is therefore an appropriate measure of their
performance. The use of sliding scale performance criteria was
incorporated to reflect best practice as recommended by UK
institutional shareholders. These performance conditions represent
a stretching target that ensures the grant of options achieves the
objective of motivating and incentivising management for good
long-term performance. 
All employee share schemes
Logica operated three share schemes, at least one of which was
open to the majority of employees globally, subject to local
legal and tax constraints. Both Sharesave and the Employee
Equity Partnership Plan were operated in the UK and the
executive directors were consequently eligible to participate in
these schemes. These schemes will be the basis for
LogicaCMG’s all employee share schemes in the future.
Sharesave
All eligible employees were able to contribute up to £250 per month
over a five-year term to purchase the company’s shares at a discount
of up to 20% of the market price at the time the share options were
granted. For the 2002 grant, the discount was 20%. In the UK, this
scheme is approved by the Inland Revenue. The executive directors
were eligible to participate in this scheme. Due to the restrictions in
the number of shares available under this scheme, shareholders are
being requested to approve a change from a five to a three-year
savings period for both the company’s UK and international
sharesave schemes.
www.logicacmg.com Remuneration committee 39 Employee Equity Partnership Plan
Through this plan, eligible staff had the opportunity to invest up to
£400 per annum in company shares. After three years, subject to
continued employment by the company, retention of the shares
originally purchased and to a performance condition, the shares
would be matched on the basis of up to 1.25 shares for every share
originally purchased. This was one of the few all employee plans of
this type in the UK that incorporated a performance condition. The
performance condition, used since the inception of the plan in
February 1999, has been that EPS growth is a minimum of UK RPI
plus 7% per annum for each year of the three-year holding period
for all the matched shares to vest. A proportion of the matched
shares may vest, on a sliding scale, subject to EPS growth being a
minimum of UK RPI plus 5% per annum for the three-year holding
period. The executive directors were eligible to participate in this
scheme. However , if they chose to participate in the Executive
Equity Partnership Plan, they lost the right to participate in the
Employee Equity Partnership Plan for that year.
The performance condition in 2002 was not met and under
normal circumstances the grant of awards in 1999 would fail to
vest. However , the committee determined that two thirds of the
awards may be exercised to reflect the good EPS growth in two of
the three years of the performance period. For the awards granted
in 2002 the performance criteria was amended from EPS growth
of RPI plus 5% to 7% per annum to an average EPS growth of RPI
plus 3% to 5% during the three-year performance period, to
ensure that the criteria remained stretching but realistic in
tightening market conditions.
US Stock Purchase Plan
US-based employees were eligible to participate in a tax favourable
stock purchase plan. They could save up to a maximum of $2,000
per annum, the savings being used to buy shares at quarterly
intervals. The company contributed an additional 1 5% to the
amount saved per employee. US-based employees were not eligible
to participate in Sharesave or the Employee Equity Partnership Plan.
CMG All Employee Share Schemes
CMG operated two employee share option schemes which were
open to all employees including executive directors. While
employees may continue to hold options under these schemes, the
former Logica all employee share schemes, as described above, will
be operated in future.
In accordance with the terms of the merger between Logica and
CMG, CMG employees were given the opportunity to roll over their
options in these schemes or allow them to lapse. The price and
number of options that were rolled over were adjusted and became
rights over LogicaCMG ordinary 10p shares. 
CMG Group Savings Related Option Scheme
The CMG group operated an annual Savings Related Share
Option Scheme for all employees, including executive directors,
since the company’s flotation in 1995. In 2001 the savings period
was reduced from five to three years. Savings related options were
granted at prices based on the average market value on
predetermined days prior to the date of grant. 
CMG Company Share Option Scheme
The Company Share Option Scheme was launched in 2001 providing
all employees with share options (not associated with a savings plan)
equivalent to their unused capacity within the limit of the savings
related share option scheme. The options were granted at market
value on predetermined days prior to the date of grant and are
normally exerciseable three years (four years in France) after the date
of grant and paid for from employees’ own funds.
CMG Group Share Incentive Plan
In the UK and Eire, a Share Incentive Plan was introduced whereby
CMG shares were purchased by a trust on behalf of participating
employees, including executive directors, by deductions from gross
salary. With effect from 30 December 2002, the effective date of the
merger , the CMG shares held on behalf of employees in the trust
were exchanged for LogicaCMG ordinary 10p shares in accordance
with the merger ratio.
No further purchases of shares will be made by the trust on behalf of
employees under the terms of this plan.
Executive shareholding
As part of the policy to align the interests of executives with those of
shareholders, executive directors and the most senior executives
within the company receiving share options were expected to
acquire and retain a significant holding in Logica shares. It was
appreciated that it might take a period of years to achieve this. This
policy will continue to apply within LogicaCMG. 
Pensions
The pension arrangements for Martin Read, Alistair Crawford,
Seamus Keating and Jim McKenna are of the defined
contribution type. These arrangements also applied to Andrew
Given until his retirement. Ian Taylor is a member of a CMG
defined benefit scheme.
The Logica Employee Pension Fund and Life Assurance Scheme is the
main pension fund for Logica employees in the UK. It is a
contributory defined contribution plan where the standard
contribution rates are 8% of base salary by the company and 4% by
the employee, subject where appropriate to the Inland Revenue cap.
Martin Read is a member of the Logica Employee Pension Fund
and Life Assurance Scheme for life assurance benefits only. For the
period that commenced on 1 July 2002, a total of 30% of Martin
Read’s base salary was paid as employer contributions into various
defined contribution plans.
40 Remuneration committee LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Jim McKenna and Seamus Keating are members of the Logica
Employee Pension Fund and Life Assurance Scheme for both pension
and life assurance benefits. Andrew Given was a member of the
scheme for both pension and life assurance benefits until his
retirement. In the case of Jim McKenna, the company pays
contributions at the rate of 1 5% of salary. In addition, further
pension contributions have been made by the company on Jim
McKenna’s behalf through approved salary sacrifice arrangements.
The company pays contributions at the rate of 8% of salary for
Seamus Keating and made contributions at the same rate for
Andrew Given until his retirement.
Alistair Crawford is a member of the CMG UK Retirement Plan 
(a contributory defined contribution scheme) and employer
contributions are made on his behalf at the rate of 4% of base salary.
In addition, in common with other CMG executives whose earnings
exceed the earnings cap imposed by UK taxation rules, 
he is entitled to a one-off payment made through payroll in March
each year equivalent to company contributions on his earnings
above the cap. 
Ian T aylor is a member of the CMG UK Pension Scheme (a non-
contributory defined benefit scheme) that, prior to being closed to
new entrants, was open to all eligible CMG employees. The funding
arrangements for Ian T aylor are the same as those applicable to all
employees in the scheme. In addition, as Ian T aylor’s salary is above
the earnings cap, the company makes contributions towards a
Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme (FURBS) which
increases pension contributions and death benefits to those which
would apply in the absence of any earnings cap. 
Prior to his standing-down as executive chairman of CMG, 
Cor Stutterheim was an active member of CMG’s Stichting
Pensioenfonds (a non-contributory defined benefit pension
scheme) that, prior to being closed to new entrants, was open to
all eligible CMG employees. The funding arrangements for Cor
Stutterheim were the same as those applicable to all other
employees in that scheme.
The audited accrued entitlements for 2002, together with
appropriate transfer values under Cor Stutterheim’s and Ian T aylor’s
non-contributory defined benefit pension schemes, are outlined in
the table below.
No additional pension contributions have been made to any former
director of the company.
Directors’ employment contracts 
(This part of the remuneration report is unaudited)
Executive directors each have a service contract of indefinite
duration until normal retirement age. It is the remuneration
committee’s policy that executive directors’ contracts should
incorporate no more than one year’s notice of termination from the
company, in line with current market practice.
Martin Read, Jim McKenna and Seamus Keating are required to give
the company a minimum of three months’ notice of termination of
employment and Alistair Crawford and Ian T aylor are required to
give six months’ notice. The company is required to give one year’s
notice to Martin Read, Alistair Crawford and Ian T aylor and 
50 weeks’ notice to Jim McKenna and Seamus Keating. 
Martin Read’s service contract, which dates from 27 July 1993,
contains a liquidated damages clause which provides that if the
company terminates his employment in breach of contract the
company will pay to him an amount equal to one year’s gross salary
plus a further amount equal to 30% of his annual gross salary as
compensation in respect of pensions, bonus and other benefits.
Liquidated damages clauses will not be incorporated into future
contracts for executive directors.
Other executive directors’ contracts do not contain any provision for
compensation upon termination of employment beyond payment in
lieu of contractual notice. The service contract of Jim McKenna,
which dates from 29 November 1993, and of Seamus Keating, which
dates from 1 January 2002, provide that any payment made to
either of them in lieu of notice is calculated on the basis of gross
salary plus an additional 12.5% as a contribution to the value of
benefits. The service contracts of Jim McKenna and Seamus Keating
also provide that, if the company makes a payment in lieu of notice,
the individual’s entitlement to a company car will continue as if
notice had been given to them. The service contract of Alistair
Crawford with CMG dates from 16 July 2001 and the service
contract of Ian T aylor with CMG dates from 1 April 2000. Both
became executive directors of LogicaCMG on 30 December 2002.
Their contracts contain provision for payment in lieu of notice only. 
Alistair Crawford resigned as an executive director on 4 March 2003.
www.logicacmg.com Remuneration committee 41
Transfer value of Change in Change in
change  in accrued accrued pension Accrued Accrued Accrued transfer value T ransfer T ransfer T ransfer
pension 1 July to 1 July to  pension at pension at pension at 1 July to  value at value at value at 
31 December 31 December 31 December 1 July 31 December 31 December 31 December 1 July 31 December
2002 2002 2002 2002 2001 2002 2002 2002 2001
££ £ ££££££
Ian T aylor 5,595 607 1 1 ,441 10,834 10,037 (2,253) 96,31 5 98,568 103,580
Euro Euro Euro Euro Euro Euro Euro Euro Euro
Cor Stutterheim 27 ,607 6,316 396,841 390,525 384,519 (210,076) 1 ,734,606 1 ,944,682 2,091 ,31 5 42 Remuneration committee LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
Following his retirement, Andrew Given will remain covered by the
company private medical insurance scheme until 30 June 2003.
The board also used its discretion to grant him a period of six
months following retirement to exercise share options granted in
1997 and 1998. The board also used its discretion to allow options
granted in 2000 and 2001 to be exercised within six months from
the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to achieving the
relevant performance conditions. Options granted in 1999 have
not achieved the relevant performance condition and have
therefore lapsed following the cessation of his employment. In
addition he has been granted dispensation to defer his pension
under the Logica Employee Pension Fund up to the age of 75. This
arrangement will not involve the company making any further
payments into the pension fund on his behalf. 
The board may seek to draw on Andrew Given’s experience in a
consultancy capacity during the next two years on appropriate
commercial rates. 
The company recognises that executive directors may be invited
to become non-executive directors of other companies and that
such appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience
to the benefit of LogicaCMG. The individual directors may
normally retain fees as the posts entail personal responsibility.
Non-executive directors
(This part of the remuneration report is unaudited)
Cor Stutterheim’s fees are determined by the board upon the
recommendation of the committee and the group chief executive.
The fees of the other non-executive directors are determined by the
executive directors upon recommendations from Cor Stutterheim
and Martin Read. The board has the power to award additional
remuneration to non-executive directors for services outside the
scope of their ordinary duties. No such additional payments were
made during the period 1 July to 31 December 2002.
The fees of the non-executive directors were reviewed using
independent advice from New Bridge Street Consultants. On 
30 December 2002 the fees and fee structure of non-executive
directors were amended to reflect market rates.
Non-executive directors do not have contracts of service with the
company and are not entitled to any payments for loss of office or
for any unexpired term of their appointment as a non-executive
director . They are not eligible for performance related bonuses and
do not participate in any LogicaCMG employee benefit plans or in
any of the company’s share schemes. Cor Stutterheim, however ,
retains an unconditional right to exercise options awarded to him
during his employment by CMG under the terms of the Savings
Related Share Option Scheme operated in the Netherlands.
Cor Stutterheim's appointment is for an initial period of three years from
30 December 2002 (subject to election by shareholders at the
forthcoming AGM) and is subject to three months’ notice on either side.
Wim Dik was appointed with effect from 30 December 2002 for an
initial period of three years ending at the AGM in 2006 (subject to
election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM).
Angela Knight was appointed with effect from 3 November 1999.
Her letter of appointment provides that her appointment is for 
an initial period of three years and she has since been re-elected 
by shareholders.
George Loudon was appointed with effect from 30 December 2002
for an initial period ending at the AGM in 2006 (subject to election
by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM).
Helmut Mamsch was appointed with effect from 8 September 1997 .
The appointment continues until the forthcoming AGM (at 
which he retires by rotation and offers himself for re-election 
by shareholders).
Richard North was appointed with effect from 19 February 2002 for
an initial period ending at the AGM in 2005. 
No payment for loss of office was made to either Sir Frank Barlow or
Roxanne Decyk.
Angela Knight
Chairman of the remuneration committee
5 March 2003
*From this point forward, EPS in the remuneration committee
report refers to earnings per share before goodwill and other
exceptional items. www.logicacmg.com Remuneration committee 43
The remuneration committee has noted that, consequent upon the termination of C J M Stutterheim’s contract with CMG BV , a payment of
€1 .5 million was agreed between C J M Stutterheim and CMG BV in settlement of all claims to compensation to which he would have
become entitled under Dutch law as stated in the listing particulars.
In recognition of the significant contribution made by David Robbie, CMG plc’s finance director , to concluding the merger , LogicaCMG’s
remuneration committee has supported the recommendation made on 31 December 2002 by CMG’s board to make, in addition to his
contractual entitlement, an ex-gratia payment of one times annual salary (£275,000). This payment has been fully provided for in CMG plc’s
accounts to 31 December 2002.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at the end of the period are as follows (this information is unaudited):
Unaudited pro forma figures Unaudited pro forma figures
1/7/02 to 31/12/02 Pension Pension Pension Pension
Performance Total Total T otal T otal contributions contributions contributions contributions
Salary related Benefits 1/7/02 to 1/7/01 to 1/1/02 to 1/1/01 to 1/7/02 to 1/7/01 to 1/1/02 to 1/1/01 to
and fees bonus in kind 3 1/1 2/02 30/6/02 31/12/02 31/12/01 3 1/1 2/02 30/6/02 31/12/02 31/12/01
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chairman and executive directors
Sir Frank Barlow 
1
38 - - 38 75 75 68 - - - -
C J M Stutterheim 
2 
# 234* - 2* 236* 472
†
472 471 51* 100
†
101 98
M P Read 210 - 14 224 443 443 431 63 126 137 103
A S Crawford 
3 
175* - 5* 180* 313
†
351 191 7* 12
†
14 6
A F Given 
4
138 - 12 1 50 299 282 289 11 23 22 22
S Keating 
5
100 - 1 2 1 1 2 76 188 - 4 3 7 -
J A P McKenna 
+
11 6 - 8 1 24 244 246 243 43 85 85 75
I Taylor 
6
130* - 3* 133* 265
†
265 264 17* 29
†
33 26  
Sub-total 1, 141 - 56 1, 197 2, 187 2,322 1,957 196 378 399 330
Non-executive directors
R Decyk 
7
11 - - 11 22 22 2 1 - - - -
W Dik 
8
15* - - 1 5* 30
†
30 19 - - - -
A  A Knight 14 - - 14 28 27 27 - - - -
G E Loudon 
9
15* - - 1 5* 30
†
30 30 - - - -
H C-J Mamsch 11 - - 11 22 22 - - - - -
R C North 
10
13 - - 13 10 23 - - - - -
Sub-total 79 - - 79 142 154 97 - - - -
Total1,220 - 56 1,276 2,329 2,476 2,054 196 378 399 330
1
FB - retired 30 December 2002
7
RD - retired 30 December 2002
2
CS - appointed 30 December 2002
8 
WD - appointed 30 December 2002
3
AC - appointed 30 December 2002
9 
GL - appointed 30 December 2002
4
AG - retired 31 December 2002
10 
RN - appointed 19 February 2002
5
SK - appointed 19 February 2002
6
IT - appointed 30 December 2002. Pension contributions include contributions made to a FURBS in relation to the amount of his earnings above the
UK earnings cap.
# Emoluments are sterling equivalents of euro amounts converted at an exchange rate of €1.57 to £1.
*T otal of emoluments from CMG to 29 December 2002 and from LogicaCMG from 30 to 31 December 2002. Emoluments accrued evenly throughout the period 
1 July to 31 December 2002. These figures are unaudited.
† These individuals were not directors of Logica plc during this period. These figures are unaudited.
+ The company pays increased pension contributions to the UK pension scheme to satisfy salary sacrifice arrangements entered into by J A P McKenna.
1 July 2002* 31 December 2002
Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial
C J M Stutterheim 1 ,079,478 - 1 ,079,478 -
M P Read 98,851 - 98,851 -
A S Crawford 5,309 - 5,309 -
A F Given 84,262 - 85,528 -
S Keating 2,241 - 2,241 -
J A P McKenna 55,744 - 55,744 -
I T aylor 21 1 ,802 - 21 1 ,802 -
A A Knight 1 ,430 - 1 ,430 -
G E Loudon 2,478 - 2,478 -
R C North 5,000 - 5,000 -
*Or date of appointment if later .
Where no interest is shown for an individual director their interest is nil.
The interests of C J M Stutterheim, A S Crawford and I T aylor are their previous interests in CMG
plc shares converted into LogicaCMG plc shares in accordance with the merger ratio.
In addition, I T aylor's holding includes a previous holding of 600 Logica shares registered in the
name of his spouse.
No changes took place in directors' emoluments between 31 December 2002 and 5 March 2003.
Table A – Emoluments of the directors (this information has been audited, unless specified otherwise) Options with a grant price below market price at 31 December 2002 Options with a grant price above market price at 31 December 2002
Options held Earliest date Latest date Earliest date Latest date
at 1 July 2002 Options Options by which all by which all by which all by which all
or date of granted on held at Weighted unexercisable unexercisable Weighted unexercisable unexercisable
appointment 24 September 31 December average grant options become options become average grant options become options become
(if later) 2002 at 122p 2002 Options held price (p) exercisable exercisable Options held price (p) exercisable exercisable
C J M Stutterheim* 1 , 139 - 1 , 139 - n/a n/a n/a 1 , 139 824.56 10/10/05 9/1 1/05
M P Read 1 ,301 ,697 650,000 1 ,951 ,697 650,000 122.00 24/9/05 23/9/12 1 ,301 ,697 605.04 13/9/04 12/9/1 1
A S Crawford** 1 ,830 - 1 ,830 - n/a n/a n/a 1 ,830 529. 12 6/9/04 5/3/05
A F Given*** 505, 197 - 505, 197 2,478 141 .88 31/12/03 30/6/04 502,719 677 .66 31/12/02 13/3/05
S Keating 55,918 300,000 355,918 300,000 122.00 24/9/05 23/9/12 55,918 1033. 1 1 13/9/04 12/9/1 1
J A P McKenna 502,620 300,000 802,620 300,000 122.00 24/9/05 23/9/12 502,620 678.46 1/2/05 12/9/1 1
I T aylor** 1 ,830 - 1 ,830 - n/a n/a n/a 1 ,830 529. 12 6/9/04 5/3/05
Total2,370,23 1 1 ,250,000 3,620,23 1 1 ,252,478 2,367 ,753
Options by grant price
14 1 .9p - 2,478
177 .5p - 209, 188
299.5p - 6,975
374.4p - 993,643
529. 12p - 3,660
627 .2p - 4,261
784.0p - 543,887
1850p - 235,000
681p - 370,000
891 .66p - 359
1321 .99p - 229
57 4. 1 1p - 551
122p 1 ,250,000 1 ,250,000
Total1 ,250,000 3,620,23 1
* Appointed 30 December 2002. Options granted unconditionally pursuant to the rules of the Dutch CMG Savings Related Share Option Scheme and rolled over into
options over LogicaCMG shares in accordance with the merger ratio of 0.4827 LogicaCMG shares for each 1 CMG share held and price adjusted accordingly.
** Appointed 30 December 2002. Options granted pursuant to CMG Company Share Option Plan and rolled over into options over LogicaCMG shares in accordance
with the merger ratio of 0.4827 LogicaCMG shares for each 1 CMG share held and price adjusted accordingly. Alistair Crawford’s options will lapse on the date of the
cessation of his employment.
*** In addition, at 1 July 2002, A F Given had a beneficial interest in 2, 143 share options through his spouse (exercisable until 3 September 2002). On 29 August 2002,
1,266 options were exercised at an exercise price of 141 .8822p and 877 options lapsed. The market price on day of exercise was 184.5p.
Other than the above exercise by spouse, no directors exercised share options during the period 1 July to 31 December 2002.
The performance criteria for options granted by Logica in 1996, 1997 , 1998 and in March and June 1999, require growth in EPS to be an average of UK RPI plus 7% per
annum for any three-year period following the date of grant. For options granted in September 1999, 2000, 2001 and March 2002, the performance criteria require growth
in EPS to be an average of UK RPI plus 12% per annum for any three-year period following the date of grant. For options granted in September 2002, the performance
criteria require growth in EPS to be an average of UK RPI plus 7% per annum for any three-year performance period for the option to vest in full. However 20% of options
will vest where EPS growth reaches an average of UK RPI plus 3% per annum. Options will vest on a pro rata basis for average EPS growth performance between UK RPI
plus 3% to 7% per annum during any performance period.
The performance conditions for share options awarded in 1996, 1997 , 1998 and March and June 1999 have been met. The performance condition for share options
granted in September 1999 has not yet been met. 
The market price of the shares at 31 December 2002 was 1 50p (31 December 2001 – 640p, 1 July 2002 – 204.25p) and the range during the period 1 July to 31 December
2002 was 1 1 5p to 204.75p.
The company's Register of Directors' Interests, which is open to inspection, contains full details of directors' shareholdings and options to subscribe.
At 31 December 2002, the Logica Employee Share Ownership Plan T rust owned 6,463,995 shares. On 9 January, 23 January, 6 February and 20 February 2003 the holding
of the T rust reduced by 690, 1 ,260, 879 and 1 ,036 respectively, following the exercise of options by employees. M P Read, A F Given, S Keating and J A P McKenna hold
options in the trust.
C J M Stutterheim has a general interest in the 1 ,247 ,821 shares held by CMG's Stichting Pensioenfonds in the Netherlands as a result of his deferred membership of this
scheme. In addition, as potential beneficiaries, A S Crawford and I T aylor have a general interest in the 7 ,639, 1 50 shares owned on 31 December 2002 by the CMG
Employee T rust which is a discretionary trust for the benefit of all former CMG UK employees and directors.
Table B – Options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the company held by directors are as follows (this information has been audited):
44 Remuneration committee LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Shares purchased 
during the 
Shares held at period 1 July to Shares held at
1 July 2002 31 December 2002 31 December 2002
M P Read 49,071 - 49,071
A F Given 10,951 - 10,951
S Keating 2,241 - 2,241
J A P McKenna 19,913 - 19,913
Matching shares Matching shares 
Matching shares lapsed on held at 
held at 1 July 2002 3 September 2002* 31 December 2002
M P Read 54, 191 (54, 191) -
A F Given - - -
S Keating 3,766 (3,766) -
J A P McKenna 33,214 (19,71 1) 13,503
* Matching awards lapsed due to failure of performance conditions in 2001/02 which relates to awards granted
in 1999, 2000 and 2001 .
This graph (which is unaudited) shows the value, by the end of 2002, of £100 invested in the company on 30 June 1998
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE techMARK Index. 
30 Jun’98 30 Jun’99 30 Jun’00 30 Jun’01 30 Jun’02 31 Dec’02
To produce a "fair value", each point is a 30-day average of the return index. The FTSE techMARK index has been used as
the comparator as being a broad-based and recognised index of companies in LogicaCMG's business sector .
LogicaCMG’s total shareholder return index compared to FTSE techMARK index
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
LogicaCMG
techMARK index
Source: Datastream/New Bridge Street Consultants.
www.logicacmg.com Remuneration committee 45
The performance condition approved by Logica shareholders in 1998 was that growth in EPS should be a minimum of UK RPI plus 7% per annum for each year of the
three-year period following the date of grant for the award of matched shares to vest in full. Between 20% and 100% of the shares may be released on a sliding scale
providing EPS growth exceeded UK RPI plus 5% per annum in each and every year of the performance period. In the event that EPS growth failed to achieve UK RPI plus
5% in any one year the relevant award would lapse. This performance condition was applied to awards granted in 1998 and 1999.
For awards granted in 2000 and 2001 , the performance criteria required EPS growth to be a minimum of UK RPI plus 12% per annum in each year of the three-year period
following the date of grant for the award of matched shares to vest in full. Between 20% and 100% of the shares may again be released on a sliding scale provided EPS
growth exceeded UK RPI plus 5% per annum.
The performance condition for awards granted in 1998 was fully satisfied. The minimum performance condition in 2001/02 was not satisfied and matching awards granted
in 1999 therefore failed to vest. In addition, matching awards granted in 2000 and 2001 will also fail to vest.
Through the Long T erm Incentive Plan operated by CMG, C J M Stutterheim, A S Crawford and I T aylor were granted conditional awards over CMG shares during 2001 , or
2002 in the case of A S Crawford. These awards lapsed with effect from 30 December 2002. The number of CMG shares to which the directors would have been entitled
should the awards have vested in full after the meeting of relevant performance conditions, together with the theoretical equivalent number of LogicaCMG shares
calculated in accordance with the merger ratio of 0.4827 LogicaCMG shares for 1 CMG share is detailed below.
Number of CMG Equivalent Conditional
shares over which LogicaCMG awards held
award granted shares 31 December 2002
C J M Stutterheim 37 ,082 17 ,899 -
A S Crawford 19,554 9,438 -
I T aylor 27 ,473 13,261 -
The shares purchased by the executive directors through the Executive Equity Partnership Plan are shown in the table below, together with the company matching award.
The shares purchased by the executive directors are included in the directors’ interests table. The newly merged group is committed to high standards of
corporate governance. In its component forms as Logica and
CMG, the group complied throughout the period under review
with the applicable principles and provisions set out in the
Combined Code as incorporated into the UK Listing Authority
Listing Requirements. In addition, CMG was compliant for the
period under review with the requirements of Euronext
Amsterdam. The board has noted the publication of both the
Higgs Report on corporate governance and the Smith Report in
respect of the conduct of audit committees, both of which were
released subsequent to the end of the financial period. While
the introduction of the recommendations does not affect
disclosure for the financial period under review, the board
believes that it adheres in principle to the spirit of both reports.
Once the final reports are published, the company’s various
terms of reference will be reviewed.
The board
Following the merger of the Logica plc and CMG plc groups, a
new board of the combined group was constituted. The new
directors were appointed on 30 December 2002. The
membership of the board committees outlined below reflects
the current position. However, the functional constitution and
methodology of the Logica plc and CMG plc boards were very
similar and therefore the following summary of the approach to
corporate governance is applicable to the merged group
throughout the period under review. 
There is an effective and appropriately constituted board which
receives such information as is required to properly fulfil its
duties. The board comprises six non-executive directors,
including the chairman and deputy chairman, and four executive
directors who together bring a wide range of skills and
experience to the board. All directors are obliged to submit
themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The board takes the opportunity afforded by the AGM and
meetings with institutional investors to ensure the company’s
objectives are widely communicated and understood. All
shareholders are welcomed to the AGM where developments in
the business are explained and the shareholders have the
opportunity to ask questions. All preliminary, final and interim
results, together with other press releases, are published on the
group’s website. Financial reporting is presented in such a way as
to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the
company’s position and prospects. 
The board annually reviews the effectiveness of the group’s
system of internal control. In addition to this annual review, the
company operates other procedures to bring relevant internal
control matters to board attention. These are explained in the
section on internal control in this statement. 
The audit committee is chaired by Richard North and also
includes Angela Knight, George Loudon and Wim Dik, all
independent non-executive directors. Its terms of reference
include the review of the group’s annual and interim financial
statements, accounting policies and internal management and
financial controls. It also considers the appointment and fees of
the external auditors and discusses the audit scope as well as the
findings and management letters arising from audits. The audit
committee normally meets three times a year, together with the
external auditors. The chief executive and the group finance
director attend the meetings at the request of the committee.
The nominations committee is chaired by Cor Stutterheim and
also includes Martin Read and Helmut Mamsch. It considers
appointments of new directors and recommends any new
appointments to the board.
The remuneration committee comprises independent non-
executive directors and is chaired by Angela Knight. Its other
members are Helmut Mamsch and George Loudon. Its key role 
is to determine the appropriate levels of remuneration for the
company’s executive directors and senior management.
Directors’ remuneration is set at the level necessary to attract
and retain the directors needed to run the company
successfully, this level being set independently by a formal,
transparent procedure. The group’s remuneration policy is set
out on pages 38 to 45. Full details of directors’ remuneration
are set out on page 43.
Internal control
The board is responsible for the group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The board has
reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control for
the period under review and the period to the approval of the
financial statements. It should be understood that such a system
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives, and provides reasonable rather than
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The group operates a highly structured, objectives-driven
approach to fulfil its core purpose and goals in respect of
sustained profitability and growth. The strategic objectives of
the group are captured in a strategic plan, developed by the
executive committee and approved by the board, which
addresses revenue and associated costs and necessary
investment. The strategic plan then forms the basis of annual
revenue and profit targets for the operating units in the group.
The research and development and capital investment
programmes are subject to a formal review procedure requiring
that rigorous qualification criteria be met prior to each instance
of material investment. Evaluation and post-investment
appraisals are performed by reference to detailed business plans.
Corporate governance
46 Corporate governance LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 The monitoring regime established by the board, through which
the performance indicators derived from the strategic and
annual plans are regularly interrogated, ensures that events,
which pose significant risk to the attainment of the group’s
objectives or significant control lapses, are communicated
through a process of rapid escalation to senior management.
Unit performance is evaluated on a monthly basis, and this
evaluation includes the addressing of identified control
weaknesses and ensuring the conclusion of previously
recommended corrective actions.
The board acknowledges that the group operates in a fluid and
rapidly developing business environment. Changes to the risk
profiles in the business environment arise as a result of both the
external challenges in a highly competitive marketplace and
through the internal development of new products,
management procedures and systems. As a result, a risk
management process has been established, which involves the
regular evaluation of inherent business risks and the
identification of controls to address them.
The board has reviewed the key business, financial, operational
and compliance risks facing the group, prioritised their
significance and determined current procedures and processes in
place to detect and address them. Risk was assessed with
reference to the achievement of the business objectives of the
respective companies, and will be assessed in the future with
reference to the revised objectives of the newly merged group.
The findings of both mechanisms have been used to better
target resources to control the main areas of risk, to enhance the
current risk based internal audit programme and to improve the
process of regular reporting on controls to the board.
The board has also devised detailed mechanisms for the
monitoring of risk and associated controls that provide the core
assurance for the internal control regime. The inherited
processes of both Logica and CMG are inherently similar and
have been combined to produce a comprehensive approach to
the risk profile of the merged group. The continuous
monitoring of strategic and operational risks is the
responsibility of the board and line management respectively.
Operational guidance on the appropriate approach to risk is
provided through clearly defined delegation of responsibilities
and authorisation levels, and by clearly documented internal
procedures that are set out in core operating procedures
common to all areas of the group. The internal audit and
quality assurance functions perform regular audits and provide
assistance towards the fulfilment of line management’s risk
management responsibilities. The external auditors contribute
an additional independent perspective on the overall integrity
of those areas of the internal control system, which they have
assessed in the course of their work, and report annually to the
audit committee with their findings. The audit committee
assesses the evidence provided to them through the various
mechanisms and seeks to ensure that the risk management
process adequately addresses all of the major risks to the group.
Going concern
The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the
company and the group have adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future, and therefore it
is appropriate to maintain the going concern basis in preparing
the financial statements.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are required by United Kingdom company law to
prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and
company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit and
cash flows of that year. In preparing those financial statements,
the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the accounts and
• prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the group and company will
continue in business
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above
requirements in preparing the accounts. The directors are
responsible for keeping proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial
position of the group and company and enable them to ensure
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for the group’s system of
internal control and for safeguarding the assets of the group and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention of fraud
and other irregularities.
By order of the board
P Weaver FCIS
Company secretary
5 March 2003
www.logicacmg.com Corporate governance 47 Independent auditors’ report to the members of
LogicaCMG plc
We have audited the financial statements of LogicaCMG plc for
the six months ended 31 December 2002 which comprise the
profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow
statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the
statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 28.
These financial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the part of the remuneration committee report
that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body,
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
company’s members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company’s members as a body for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As described in the statement of directors’ responsibilities, the
company’s directors are responsible for the preparation of the
financial statements in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and accounting standards. They are also responsible
for the preparation of the other information contained in the
annual report including the directors’ remuneration report. Our
responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of
the directors’ remuneration report described as having been
audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and
regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial
statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report
described as having been audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if,
in our opinion, the directors’ report is not consistent with the
financial statements, if the company has not kept proper
accounting records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified
by law regarding directors’ remuneration and transactions with the
company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects
the company's compliance with the seven provisions of the
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of
the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We
are not required to consider whether the board's statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on
the effectiveness of the group's corporate governance procedures
or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors’ report and the other information
contained in the annual report for the above period as described
in the contents section including the unaudited part of the
directors’ remuneration report and consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom
auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of
the directors’ remuneration report described as having been
audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates
and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the
financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the group,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the
directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or
other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion, we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information
in the financial statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report described as having been audited.
Opinion
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the company and the group as at 31 December 2002
and of the loss of the group for the period then ended; and
• the financial statements and part of the directors’ remuneration
report described as having been audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche London
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP London
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
5 March 2003
Independent auditors’ report
48 Independent auditors’ report LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 www.logicacmg.com Financial statements 49
Consolidated profit and loss account 50
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 50
Consolidated balance sheet 51
Consolidated cash flow statement 52
Company balance sheet 53
Notes to the financial statements 54–73
Euro translation of consolidated primary 
financial statements 74-76
Contents
Financial statements 50 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
Consolidated profit and loss account
882.5
(1,300.0)
59. 1
(7.7)
(24.3)
(444.6)
(417.5)
-
(22.6)
-
(440. 1)
(4.6)
(444.7)
(13. 1)
(457.8)
(0.5)
(458.3)
(22.0)
(480.3)
(62.4)p
(62.4)p
5.2p
5. 1p
-
(452.3)
-
(7.7)
-
(444.6)
(452.3)
-
(22.6)
-
(474.9)
-
(474.9)
3.0
(471.9)
-
(471.9)
-
(471.9)
Note
Turnover 2
Net operating costs 3
Operating profit/(loss)
Before restructuring, goodwill amortisation
and impairment
Restructuring costs 4
Goodwill amortisation
Goodwill impairment 4
Operating profit/(loss)
Profit on disposal of operations 4
Merger transaction costs 4
Amounts written-off investments 4
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest
Net interest payable 7
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before tax
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 8
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities after tax
Equity minority interests
Profit/(loss) for the period 20
Dividends – ordinary shares 10 & 20
Retained loss for the period
Earnings per share 
– Basic 11
– Diluted 11
– Basic 11
– Diluted 11
882.5
(847.7)
59. 1
-
(24.3)
-
34.8
-
-
-
34.8
(4.6)
30.2
(16. 1)
14. 1
(0.5)
13.6
(22.0)
(8.4)
Before
exceptional
items
£’m
1,827.4
(2,508.8)
121 .7
(41.4)
(55.9)
(705.8)
(681.4)
0.5
(22.6)
(20.2)
(723.7)
(8. 1)
(731.8)
(20.9)
(752.7)
(0.8)
(753.5)
(42.5)
(796.0)
(1 02.7)p
(1 02.7)p
10.9p
10.8p
Unaudited
12 months
ended
31 December
2002
total
£’m
Exceptional
items
£’m
Total
£’m
2,008.8
(2,785.6)
167 .7
(42.6)
(76.7)
(825.2)
(776.8)
0.5
-
(20.2)
(796.5)
(7.6)
(804. 1)
(30.4)
(834.5)
(0.7)
(835.2)
(42. 1)
(877.3)
(1 14.2)p
(1 14.2)p
15.6p
15.5p
(458.3)
(4.6)
(462.9)
For the 6 months ended 31 December 2002
Loss for the period 20
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments 20
Total recognised losses
All gains and losses recognised above are based on historical cost and arise from continuing operations.
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
£’m
(835.2)
17 .8
(817.4)
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
£’m
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
£’m
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
Adjusted – before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items net of tax
6 months ended 31 December 2002
Unaudited
12 months
ended
31 December
2002
For the 6 months ended 31 December 2002 www.logicacmg.com Financial statements 51
Consolidated balance sheet
6.7
665.5
29. 1
125.9
827.2
(1 1.7)
(487.7)
(499.4)
(235.0)
(1.5)
369.4
101 .2
1.4
18.7
0.5
491.2
292.5
783.7
(230.7)
(16. 1)
536.9
74.9
704.8
2.6
(245.6)
(1.3)
535.4
1.5
536.9
31 December 2002
Note
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 12
Tangible assets 13
Share of net assets of joint venture
Investments – own shares 14. 1
Trade investments 14. 1
Current assets
Stock
Debtors 15
Investments: liquid resources
Cash at bank and in hand
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings 16
Other creditors 17
Net current assets
Total assets less current liabilities
Creditors – amounts falling due after more
than one year
Borrowings 16
Other creditors
Provisions for liabilities and charges 18
Net assets
Capital and reserves
Called up equity share capital 20
Share premium account 20
Other reserves 20
Profit and loss account 20
Merger reserve 20
Total shareholders' funds 20
Equity minority interests
Capital employed
5.6
602.6
-
133.3
741 .5
(9.7)
(439.3)
(449.0)
(230.7)
-
£’m £’m £’m £’m
826. 1
112.8
1. 1
19.0
0.5
959.5
327.8
1,287.3
(236.5)
(29.6)
1,021.2
74.9
704.7
2.6
(8.3)
246.3
1,020.2
1.0
1,021.2
31 December 2002 30 June 2002 52 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
Consolidated cash flow statement
149.2
(14.3)
(0.3)
6.9
(14.2)
(0.5)
(40.3)
4.3
4.6
3.5
(5.2)
(277.2)
-
8.2 
(10.2)
(1.4)
37 .9
(4. 1)
(6. 1)
(9.8)
(13.2)
(20.5)
(15.8)
29. 1
(1.0)
12.3
For the 6 months ended 31 December 2002
Note
Net cash inflow from trading operations 25. 1
Cash outflow related to exceptional items
Net cash inflow from operating activities 25. 1
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Dividends paid to minority interests
Interest received
Interest paid
Interest paid on finance lease rental payments
Net cash outflow from returns on investments
and servicing of finance
Taxation
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets
Sale of tangible fixed assets
Sale of trade investments
Sale of own shares by employee share trusts
Purchase of own shares by employee share trusts
Net cash outflow for capital expenditure 
and financial investment
Acquisitions and disposals
Purchase and disposal of businesses
Net cash acquired and disposed with businesses
Net cash outflow for acquisitions and disposals
Equity dividends paid
Net cash outflow before management of 
liquid resources and financing 25.2
Management of liquid resources
Cash withdrawn from deposits
Financing activities
Proceeds from issue of shares
Increase in loans
Capital element of finance lease rental payments
Total financing activities
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the period
59.8
(21.9)
-
2.6
(6.4)
(0.3)
(13.7)
3.6
-
0.3
-
(17. 1)
3.9
0. 1
-
(1. 1)
6 months ended
31 December 2002
£’m £’m
12 months ended
30 June 2002
£’m £’m
134.9
(8. 1)
(53.2)
(33. 1)
(277.2)
(41.7)
(278.4)
213.2
(3.4)
(68.6) www.logicacmg.com Financial statements 53
Company balance sheet
94.8
13.7
108.5
(14.3)
15.4
696.6
712.0
104.4 
816.4
74.9
704.8
23.3
13.4
816.4
31 December 2002
Note
Fixed assets
Investments – own shares 14.2
Investments – shares in subsidiary undertakings 14.2
Current assets
Debtors 15
Cash at bank and in hand
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
Other creditors 17
Net current assets
Net assets
Capital and reserves
Called up equity share capital 19
Share premium account 20
Special reserve 20
Profit and loss account 20
Equity shareholders' funds
128.3
14.4
142.7
(38.3)
31 December  2002
£’m £’m
30 June 2002
£’m £’m
9.8
676.8
686.6
94.2 
780.8
44.9
704.7
23.3
7.9
780.8
The financial statements on pages 50 to 73 were approved by the board on 5 March 2003 and were signed on its behalf by:
Dr M P Read
S Keating
Directors
5 March 2003 54 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
1 Statement of accounting policies
The following are the principal accounting policies of the group which have been applied consistently throughout the period and preceding
year. The adoption of Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 19 (Deferred tax) did not necessitate any restatement of results in either period.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
applicable UK accounting standards.
Merger accounting
These financial statements have been prepared under the merger accounting principles, as set out in FRS 6 (Acquisitions and
mergers), in relation to the merger of Logica plc and CMG plc companies incorporated in Great Britain. Under merging
accounting, the results and cash flows of Logica plc and CMG plc have been combined from the beginning of the financial period
in which the merger occurred. The profit and loss account, balance sheet and cash flow comparative figures have been restated on
the combined basis. As a result of the merger, comparatives for geographic segments have been restated to reflect the geographical
areas of the combined business.
Basis of consolidation
The group financial statements include those of the company and all its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 December 2002. The
group's share of the results of subsidiary undertakings is included for the period during which they are a member of the group. In the
group financial statements, investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. The consolidated profit and loss
account includes the group's share of associates' profits less losses, while the group's share of the net assets of the associates is shown in
the consolidated balance sheet. The investment in the joint venture has been accounted for using the equity method as the separate
assets and liabilities are not material to the group.
Goodwill
Purchased goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses representing any excess of fair value of
consideration over the fair value of net assets is capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life and included as
intangible assets on the balance sheet. The useful economic lives do not exceed 20 years and are the periods over which the directors
estimate that the value of the underlying businesses are expected to exceed the value of the underlying assets in accordance with 
FRS 10 (Goodwill and intangible assets). Goodwill arising prior to 1 January 1998 remains written off to the profit and loss account
reserve as permitted by FRS 10. Provision is made for impairment.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost. Depreciation is provided at rates to write the cost of the fixed assets down to their residual value
evenly over their expected useful lives on a straight line basis at the following rates:
Furniture 10%-20% Computer rooms 20%
Partitions and office equipment 10%-20% Computers 25%-33%
Freehold property 2% Motor vehicles 25%
Leasehold property Over life of lease
Investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Stock
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Leases
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to
the group, and hire purchase contracts, are capitalised in the balance sheet at their present value of minimum lease payments payable
during the lease term and are depreciated over their useful lives. The capital elements of future obligations under the leases and hire
purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet. 
The interest elements of the rental obligations are charged in the profit and loss account over the period of the leases and hire purchase
contracts and represent a constant proportion of the balance of the capital repayments outstanding. 
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Taxation
Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the current rate. Assets are recognised and provision is made for deferred
taxation to take account of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for accounts purposes and their treatment for tax
purposes. Assets are recognised and full provision has been made in the accounts for deferred taxation arising from timing differences
between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements when the recoverability is regarded as more likely than not,
except for certain exemptions set out in FRS 19 (Deferred tax).
Notes to the financial statements www.logicacmg.com Financial statements 55
1 Statement of accounting policies (continued)
Foreign currency
Foreign currency assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are translated at the rates prevailing at that date or, if hedged, at the
forward contract rate. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are accounted for at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction
or, if hedged, at the rate of exchange under the related forward exchange contract. The exchange differences are taken to the profit and
loss account for the period.
Trading results of foreign subsidiaries are included in the group's results using average exchange rates. Gains and losses arising from the
re-translation of the opening net investment in foreign subsidiaries and the results of foreign subsidiaries at the year-end rate are taken
directly to reserves. All other foreign exchange gains and losses are reflected in the profit and loss account. The most important
exchange rate for the group is the euro. The relevant exchange rates for translation were:
£1 = €
The primary reporting currency of the group is UK pounds sterling. 
Interest rate transactions
Interest rate swap receipts and payments are accrued so as to match the net income or cost with the related finance expense. No
amounts are recognised in respect of future periods.
Hedge accounting
The group uses forward contracts and currency options to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risks. The group considers these
financial instruments to be 'hedges' (that is, an offset of foreign exchange and interest risks) when the following criteria are met: 
– the financial instruments must be related to a foreign currency asset or liability that is probable and whose characteristics have 
been identified
– it must involve the same currency as the hedged item and
– it must reduce foreign currency risk on the group's operations
Gains and losses on hedges of existing assets or liabilities are included in the carrying amount of those assets or liabilities and are recognised
in the profit and loss account. Gains and losses on qualifying hedges of firm commitments or anticipated transactions are classified as
deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account or as adjustments in the carrying amount of the transaction when it occurs.
Forward contracts used to hedge the currency mix of the group have their contracted rates valued against the balance sheet rates with net
unrealised gains or losses being shown as part of the debt they are hedging. The difference between spot and forward rate for these contracts
is recognised as net interest payable over the period of the contract. The group’s policy for financial instruments is given in note 24.
Gains or losses on financial instruments that do not qualify as hedges are recognised as other income or expenses.
Research and development
Research and development costs are written-off in the period in which they are incurred unless they are to be reimbursed by third parties.
Turnover
Turnover represents the value of work done for clients including attributable profit and after adjusting for all foreseeable future losses
but excluding local sales taxes. Revenue in respect of software product licences with no significant service revenue is recognised 100%
on delivery. For other software product licences, revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis.
Recognition of profits
Profit on contracts for the supply of professional services at pre-determined rates is taken as and when the work is performed,
irrespective of the duration of the contract.
Profit is taken on fixed price contracts while the contract is in progress, having regard to the proportion of the total contract which has
been completed at the balance sheet date and estimated costs by reference to the costs incurred to date versus total estimated costs to
completion. Provision is made for all foreseeable future losses.
Amounts recoverable on contracts
Amounts recoverable on contracts represent turnover which has not yet been invoiced to clients on fixed price contracts. Such amounts
are separately disclosed within debtors. The valuation of amounts recoverable on fixed price contracts is adjusted to take up profit to
date or foreseeable losses in accordance with the accounting policy for recognition of profits.
1.61 1.53 1.57
6 months ended 31 December 2002
Average Closing
12 months ended 30 June 2002
Average Closing
Notes to the financial statements
1.54 56 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
Notes to the financial statements
1 Statement of accounting policies (continued)
Other amounts recoverable on contracts are valued at the lower of cost or estimated net realisable value. Cost comprises:
– professional amounts recoverable valued at the cost of salaries and associated payroll expenses of employees engaged on
assignments and a proportion of attributable overheads and 
– unbilled expenses incurred and equipment purchased for clients in connection with specific contracts.
Post-retirement benefits
The costs of the group's defined benefit pension arrangements are charged against profits in accordance with SSAP 24 (Accounting
for pension costs) on a systematic basis allowing for the expected pension costs spread over the remaining service lives of the scheme
members, as calculated by the actuaries of the group.
The cost of the group's defined contribution arrangements are charged against profits on the basis of the contributions paid by the group.
The cost of providing non-pension post-employment benefits, other than pensions, is charged to the profit and loss account to spread
the regular cost over the service lives of employees.
The group has continued to disclose the amounts relating to the group's defined benefit pension schemes as required under the
transitional provisions of FRS 17 (Retirement benefits).
Employee share ownership trusts
The net result of the employee trusts, including profits or losses on sales of shares and tax thereon, is included in the financial
statements. Shares owned by the employee trusts are included in the balance sheet at average cost less provisions for impairment. The
net assets, excluding shares and cash, are shown as part of creditors.
Any difference between exercise price and the market value at the date of grant of share options is charged through the profit and loss
account on a straight line basis over the period to which the performance criteria relates.
Government grants
Capital grants are treated as deferred income and credited to the profit and loss account on the same basis as the related assets are
depreciated. Revenue grants are credited to the profit and loss account in the same period as the related expenditure is charged.
2 Segmental information
An analysis of turnover, profit before tax and net assets
by geographic area is given below:
United Kingdom
Benelux
Germany
France
Rest of Europe
Rest of World
IT services
Wireless networks*
Goodwill amortisation
Exceptional items 
Goodwill impairment
Amounts written-off investments
Restructuring costs
Merger transaction costs
Profit on disposals of operations
Net interest payable
Goodwill
Net debt
Dividends
313.7
204.0
67 .2
48.0
29.5
59.2
72 1 .6
160.9
882.5
-
-
-
-
-
-
882.5
-
-
-
-
882.5
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
£’m
Turnover Profit/(loss) before tax Net assets
718.4
453. 1
144.8
104.0
45.8
130.3
1,596.4
412.4
2,008.8
-
-
-
-
-
-
2,008.8
-
-
-
-
2,008.8
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
£’m
34. 1
20.2
3.3
(0.6)
0.4
0.7
58. 1
1.0
59. 1
(24.3)
(444.6)
-
(7.7)
(22.6)
-
(440. 1)
(4.6)
-
-
-
(444.7)
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
£’m
61 .0
50.6
7.0
3.5
(0.3)
1.5
123.3
44.4
167 .7
(76.7)
(825.2)
(20.2)
(42.6)
-
0.5
(796.5)
(7.6)
-
-
-
(804. 1)
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
£’m
100.7
20.7
(0.6)
1.0
14.0
29.7
165.5
131. 1
296.6
-
-
-
-
-
-
296.6
-
369.4
(107. 1)
(22.0)
536.9
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
£’m
80. 1
60.5
(13. 1)
5.0
5.8
34.2
172.5
134.8
307 .3
-
-
-
-
-
-
307 .3
-
826. 1
(91 .7)
(20.5)
1 ,021 .2
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
£’m
* Wireless networks is managed from the Republic of Ireland and the Netherlands.  1.8
0.3
0.9
3.0
www.logicacmg.com Financial statements 57
Notes to the financial statements
2 Segmental information (continued)
£16. 1m of the goodwill amortisation is attributable to the UK (12 months ended 30 June 2002: £46.2m), £0.9m to Benelux (12 months
ended 30 June 2002: £1 .8m), £4.0m to Germany (12 months ended 30 June 2002: £20.4m), £0.3m to France (12 months ended 30 June
2002: £0.6m), £0.2m to Rest of Europe (12 months ended 30 June 2002: £0.4m), £1 .2m to Rest of World (12 months ended 30 June 2002:
£3. 1m), and the remaining £1 .6m of the goodwill amortisation is attributable to wireless networks (12 months ended 30 June 2002: £4.2m).
Of the exceptional items of £474.9m (12 months ended 30 June 2002: £887.5m), £337.4m of the exceptional items are attributable to the
UK (12 months ended June 2002: £543.4m); £20.3m to Benelux (12 months ended 30 June 2002: £4.8m); £85. 1m to Germany (12 months
ended 30 June 2002: £267.4m); £7.5m to France (12 months ended 30 June 2002: £4.0m); £5.9m to Rest of World (12 months ended 
30 June 2002: £15.9m) and £18.7m to wireless networks (12 months ended 30 June 2002: £52.0m).
In the opinion of the directors, LogicaCMG operated only one class of business throughout the period, namely the provision of
information technology services and solutions.
332.8
206.2
73.8
59.0
84.4
126.3
882.5
Analysis of turnover by country of destination is given below:
United Kingdom
Benelux
Germany
France
Rest of Europe
Rest of World
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
£’m
720.0
458.6
168.2
118.6
160.2
383.2
2,008.8
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
£’m
188.8
480.4
18.8
0.7
24.3
444.6
0.2
1.6
27 .5
24.4
88.7
1,300.0
3 Net operating costs
Net operating costs comprise:
Materials and other external charges
Staff costs (see note 6)
Depreciation of owned tangible fixed assets
Depreciation of leased tangible fixed assets
Amortisation of goodwill
Impairment of goodwill
Loss on disposal of fixed assets
Group audit fees (parent company £160k (prior period: £160k))
Operating lease charges – hire of plant and machinery
– other
Other operating expenses
Research and development costs were £32.0m (12 months ended 30 June 2002: £82.5m).
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
£’m
432.6
1,041.4
36. 1
1.6
76.7
825.2
1. 1
1.7
56.5
51.2
261.5
2,785.6
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
£’m
1.0
0. 1
0.6
1.7
1.7
1.3
-
3.0
Auditors’ remuneration
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Deloitte & T ouche
Arthur Andersen
0.8
0.8
-
1.6
Audit
£’m
Non-audit
£’m
Audit
£’m
Non-audit
£’m
Charges for non-audit services provided by the auditors in the six months to 31 December 2002 include £1.5m of merger costs and
£0.6m of tax advice. The balance related primarily to corporate finance services. The directors consider that the group auditors were
best placed to provide these services.
6 months ended 31 December 2002 12 months ended 30 June 2002 Notes to the financial statements
58 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
4 Exceptional items
On 30 December 2002 Logica plc and CMG plc completed their merger. £22.6m was incurred in relation to transaction costs directly
attributable to the merger.
In the six months to 31 December 2002, we carried through the previously announced restructuring in Logica's mobile networks
business and CMG's Noord Nederland operation and took some actions relating to the proposed merger which became effective on
completion. A total charge of £7.7m was made in the period under review: £3.5m related to the CMG Netherlands’ costs; the balance of
£4.2m was merger-related.
In accordance with FRS 11 (Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill), the carrying values of the group's goodwill balances have been
compared to their recoverable amounts represented by their value in use to the group. The value in use has been derived from
discounted cash flow projections which cover the five years from 1 January 2003. After this five-year period, the projections use a long-
term growth rate compatible with projections for the countries concerned. The discount rate used to arrive at this calculation was 14%
on a pre-tax basis. The review has resulted in a charge of £444.6m in respect of various acquisitions made by the group in the past,
principally Admiral acquired in 2000 by CMG, and pdv.
Amounts written-off investments in the prior period represent the write-down in carrying value of own shares held in the Logica ESOP trust.
The profit on disposal of £0.5m in the prior period relates to the disposal of CMG Denmark.
5 Directors’ emoluments
Details of directors’ emoluments, pensions and share options are contained in the remuneration committee report on pages 38 to 45.
The group operates a number of voluntary pension schemes of the defined contribution type in the UK and overseas under which
contributions are paid by group undertakings and employees. In some countries, pension is made by contributions into the state
pension schemes. The pension cost charge of these defined contribution schemes amounted to £15.7m for the six months ended 
31 December 2002 (year ended 30 June 2002: £36.5m).
In addition, the group also operates several defined benefit pension schemes for the benefit of employees primarily in the United
Kingdom and the Netherlands. The CMG schemes were closed to new members in 1994. The Admiral scheme was closed to new
members in November 2000. The CMG UK and Admiral UK schemes merged with effect from 1 July 2002.
The Logica Netherlands scheme was closed to new entrants and for future accrual in November 1999. Consequently no contributions
were made during the period ended 31 December 2002. At 31 December 2002 the market value of the assets was £8.8m.
881.8
116.7
42.9
1,041.4
7, 1 80
7, 1 63
2,094
1,957
598
1,849
20,841
2,736
23,577
7,350
7,432
2, 107
1,972
570
1,767
21 , 198
2,842
24,040
6 Employees
The number of employees was:
United Kingdom
Benelux
Germany
France
Rest of Europe
Rest of World
IT services
Wireless networks
7, 1 35
6,840
2, 121
1,875
633
1,922
20,526
2,571
23,097
31 December
2002
Period end
30 June
2002
Year end
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
Average
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
Average
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
£’m
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
£’m
7,788
7,683
2, 108
2, 152
568
1,938
22,237
2,972
25,209
405.8
55.7
18.9
480.4
Staff costs for the period amounted to:
Salaries
Social security costs
Pension costs Notes to the financial statements
www.logicacmg.com Financial statements 59
Valuation of significant defined benefit schemes
The costs of the CMG and Admiral schemes operated in the UK were assessed by qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit
method of valuation. The principal assumptions were a rate of investment return of 8.5% per annum and salary increases during service
of 6.5% per annum. Pension increases are allowed for at the rates guaranteed in the scheme rules, based on an inflation assumption of
4.5%, with future awards of discretionary increases assumed to be covered by future investment surpluses.
The cost of the Admiral scheme operated in the UK was assessed as at 1 March 1999. The market value of the assets of this scheme at
the valuation date was £23.8m. The actuarial value of these assets was taken to be 84% of the market value, that is, £20.0m. This was
97% of the actuarial value of the accrued liabilities. The deficit is being amortised over the remaining service lives of employees and is
allowed for in the pension cost.
The cost of the existing CMG scheme in the UK was assessed as at 1 January 2000. The market value of the assets of the CMG UK
scheme at the valuation date was £58.5m. The actuarial value of the assets was taken to be 81% of the market value, that is, £47.4m.
This was 107% of the actuarial value of the accrued liabilities. The surplus is being amortised over the remaining service lives of
employees and is allowed for in the pension cost.
The CMG UK and Admiral UK schemes merged with effect from 1 July 2002. An actuarial valuation for funding purposes is being
carried out as at 1 July 2002. The results of this are not yet available but will be used to set the employer contribution rates and 
SSAP 24 charge with effect from 1 January 2003 and are likely to result in increased employer contribution rates.
The cost of the CMG scheme in the Netherlands was assessed as at 1 January 2002 by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit
method of valuation. The principal assumptions were a rate of investment return of 6.0% per annum, salary increases during service of
4% per annum and taking assets at market value. The market value of the assets of the CMG Netherlands schemes at the valuation
date was £93.8m. This was 152% of the actuarial value of accrued liabilities. The surplus is being amortised over the remaining service
lives of employees and is allowed for in the pension cost.
The pension prepayment of £0.2m at 31 December 2002 (30 June 2002: liability £0. 1m) represents the accumulated difference between
the pension cost charged to the profit and loss account of £3.2m and pension contributions paid to defined benefit schemes by group
companies (see note 18). Of this prepayment, £2.0m (year ended 30 June 2002: £2.2m) relates to the Netherlands schemes and 
£1.8m liability (year ended 30 June 2002: £2.3m liability) relates to the UK schemes.
Impact of accounting under FRS 17 (Retirement benefits)
Additional disclosures regarding the group's defined benefit schemes are required under the transitional provisions of FRS 17
(Retirement benefits) and these are set out below.
Qualified actuaries have performed actuarial valuations or updated recent actuarial valuations at 31 December 2002 using revised
assumptions that are consistent with the requirements of FRS 17. Investments have been valued at market value for this purpose.
The contribution rate throughout the 2002 calendar year was 13% of pensionable salaries for the CMG UK scheme and 8.9% for the
Admiral UK scheme. The net contribution paid to the CMG Netherlands scheme during 2002 was £2.0m and this was paid in the first 
six months of the year.
The schemes are closed schemes and therefore under the projected unit method the current service cost will increase as the members
of the schemes approach retirement.
6 Employees (continued)
As part of the terms of the ESIS/EPFAL acquisition in February 2001, it was agreed that the assets and liabilities in the defined benefit
scheme in respect of the employees of the acquired business would be transferred into a new defined benefit scheme established by
Logica on 1 July 2001. From 1 July 2001 contributions were paid into the new scheme however, at 31 December 2002, the assets and
liabilities were still to be transferred across from the old scheme.
Each scheme is funded in advance by contributions from the employing companies to meet the costs, at rates assessed by the actuary or
insurer of each scheme, in regular funding reviews. The schemes' assets are held in funds separate from the group.
The group contributes to a life policy scheme in the US for 12 ex-employees. This scheme is closed to new members and is considered
immaterial in respect to other pension schemes. The assets of the scheme, valued at £3.8m at 30 June 2002, are held by an insurance
company for Logica Inc. The total amount payable for death benefits is £2.7m at 30 June 2002. 40.2
37 .3
6.0
1. 1
13.0
97 .6
(77.6)
20.0
(6.5)
13.5
70.6
10.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
82.2
(1 19.3)
(37. 1)
11 . 1
(26.0)
Netherlands schemes
Notes to the financial statements
60 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
Assets and liabilities
Equities
Government bonds
Corporate bonds
Other
Cash
Total market value of assets
Present value of scheme liabilities
Surplus/(deficit) in the scheme
Related deferred tax (liability)/asset
Net pensions asset/(liability)
Pensions expense
Current service cost
Charge to operating profit
Expected return on pension scheme assets
Interest on pension scheme liabilities
Charge to net interest payable
Charge to profit on ordinary activities
Statement of total recognised gains and losses (STRGL)
Loss on assets relative to expected return
Experience gains/(losses) arising on the scheme 
Changes in assumptions underlying scheme liabilities
Movement in exchange rates
Actuarial loss recognised in STRGL
Movement in surplus during the period
Surplus/(deficit) at start of period
Current service cost
Credit to net interest payable
Actuarial loss
Employer contributions
Surplus/(deficit) at end of period
History of experience gains and losses
Loss on assets relative to expected return
Amount £’m
Percentage of scheme assets
Experience gains/(losses) arising on the scheme liabilities
Amount £’m
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities
Total loss recognised in STRGL:
Amount £’m
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities
32. 1
39.2
6.6
1. 1
14.9
93.9
(84.4)
9.5
(3.3)
6.2
31 December
2002
£’m
UK schemes
30 June 
2002
£’m
12 months to
30 June 2002
£’m £’m
6 months to
31 December 2002
£’m £’m
12 months to
30 June 2002
£’m £’m
6 months to
31 December 2002
£’m £’m
47 .4
38. 1
8.4
1.2
10. 1
105.2
(65.5)
39.7
(13.0)
26.7
30 June 
2001
£’m
63.0
9.2
0.7
0.4
0.5
73.8
(120.7)
(46.9)
14. 1
(32.8)
31 December
2002
£’m
30 June 
2002
£’m
79.2
10.9
-
0.3
1.8
92.2
(99.6)
(7.4)
2.2
(5.2)
30 June 
2001
£’m
Weighted average assumptions
Discount rate
Rate of increase in salaries
Rate of increase in pensions in payment
Inflation
Expected rate of return on equities
Expected rate of return on government bonds
Expected rate of return on corporate bonds
Expected rate of return on other
Expected rate of return on cash
Weighted average return on scheme assets
5.65%
3.50%
0.21%
2.00%
8.65%
4.75%
5.90%
7.00%
3.00%
5.91%
31 December
2002
5.57%
3. 14%
0.00%
2. 10%
8. 19%
5.33%
6.00%
7.00%
3.00%
6.26%
30 June 
2002
5.56%
3. 12%
0.00%
2.00%
7.68%
5.56%
6.00%
6.00%
3.00%
6.31%
30 June
2001
5.65%
3.75%
2.25%
2.25%
8.65%
4.65%
5.30%
8.32%
3.09%
8.08%
31 December
2002
5.75%
4.00%
2.50%
2.50%
8. 10%
5.00%
5.30%
8.83%
3.31%
7.67%
30 June 
2002
6.25%
4.25%
2.75%
2.75%
7.75%
5.25%
-
7.75%
3.50%
7.37%
30 June
2001
1.7
(2.9)
2. 1
3.2
(6.9)
3.9
6.7
(0.6)
6. 1
(21.8)
(1.8)
(7.0)
-
(30.6)
(7.4)
(6.7)
0.6
(30.6)
7.0
(37. 1)
(21.8)
(27)%
(1.8)
(2)%
(30.6)
(26)%
3.2
(3.2)
3.5
1.7
(0.8)
0.9
(6.9)
0. 1
(2.7)
(0. 1)
(9.6)
20.0
(1.7)
0.8
(9.6)
-
9.5
(6.9)
(7)%
0. 1
-
(9.6)
(1 1)%
3.2
(3.0)
0.2
(22.9)
-
(0.6)
2.0
(21.5)
39.7
(3.2)
3.0
(21.5)
2.0
20.0
(22.9)
(23)%
-
-
(21.5)
(28)%
6.7
(7.0)
6.4
3.2
0.3
3.5
(14.5)
(4.5)
9.5
-
(9.5)
(37. 1)
(3.2)
(0.3)
(9.5)
3.2
(46.9)
(14.5)
(20)%
(4.5)
(4)%
(9.5)
(8)%
6 Employees (continued) Notes to the financial statements
61 www.logicacmg.com Financial statements
Assets and liabilities (all schemes)
Equities
Government bonds
Corporate bonds
Other
Cash
Total market value of assets
Present value of scheme liabilities
Surplus/(deficit) in the scheme
Related deferred tax asset/(liability)
Net pensions (liability)/asset
Pensions expense  (all schemes)
Current service cost
Charge to operating profit
Expected return on pension scheme assets
Interest on pension scheme liabilities
Charge to net interest payable
Charge to profit on ordinary activities 
Statement of total recognised gains and losses (STRGL)
Loss on assets relative to expected return
Experience losses arising on the scheme liabilities
Changes in assumptions underlying scheme liabilities
Movement in exchange rates
Actuarial loss recognised in STRGL
Movement in surplus during the period (all schemes)
Surplus/(deficit) at start of period
Current service cost
Credit to net interest payable
Actuarial loss
Employer contributions
Surplus/(deficit) at end of period
95. 1
48.4
7.3
1.5
15.4
167 .7
(205. 1)
(37.4)
10.8
(26.6)
31 December
2002
110.8
47 .6
6.4
1.5
13.5
179.8
(196.9)
(17. 1)
4.6
(12.5)
30 June 
2002
126.6
49.0
8.4
1.5
11 .9
197 .4
(165. 1)
32.3
(10.8)
21 .5
30 June 
2001
12 months to
30 June 2002
£’m £’m
6 months to
31 December 2002
£’m £’m
Combined schemes
4.9
(6. 1)
5.6
9.9
(3.6)
6.3
(44.7)
(1.8)
(7.6)
2.0
(52. 1)
32.3
(9.9)
3.6
(52. 1)
9.0
(17. 1)
4.9
(0.5)
4.4
(21.4)
(4.4)
6.8
(0. 1)
(19. 1)
(17. 1)
(4.9)
0.5
(19. 1)
3.2
(37.4)
9.9
(13.9)
10.3
History of experience gains and losses (all schemes)
Loss on assets relative to expected return
Amount £’m
Percentage of scheme assets
Experience losses arising on the scheme liabilities:
Amount £’m
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities
Total gain/(loss) recognised in STRGL:
Amount £’m
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities
If the above amounts had been recognised in the financial statements, the group's net assets and
profit and loss reserve at 31 December 2002 and 30 June 2002 would be as follows:
Net assets excluding pension assets/(liabilities)
Pension assets/(liabilities)
Net assets including pension assets/(liabilities)
Profit and loss reserve excluding pension assets/(liabilities)
Pension assets/(liabilities)
Profit and loss reserve including pension assets/(liabilities)
(44.7)
(25)%
(1.8)
(1)%
(52. 1)
(26)%
1,021.4
(12.5)
1,008.9
(8. 1)
(12.5)
(20.6)
(21.4)
(13)%
(4.4)
(2)%
(19. 1)
(9)%
536.9
(26.6)
510.3
(245.6)
(26.6)
(272.2)
12 months to
30 June 
2002
6 months to
31 December
2002
30 June 
2002
£’m
31 December
2002
£’m
6 Employees (continued) Notes to the financial statements
62 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
2.7
(0.3)
(5.6)
(0.3)
-
(1.1)
(7.3)
(4.6)
7 Net interest (payable)/receivable
Interest receivable
Interest payable on:
Finance charges payable under finance leases
Bank loans
Project financing
Discount on provisions
Other interest bearing items
Net interest payable
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
£’m
7.5
(0.4)
(1 1.9)
(0.6)
(0.2)
(2.0)
(15. 1)
(7.6)
12 months
ended 
30 June 
2002
£’m
15.0
(0. 1)
(0.7)
2.0
29.4
-
-
(2.7)
(12.5)
7.4
8.7
16. 1
(3.0)
13. 1
8 Taxation
UK corporation tax:
Current at 30% (Prior year 30%)
Over provision in respect of prior years
Double tax relief
Deferred
Overseas taxation:
Corporation tax
Under provision in relation to prior years
Deferred
Tax on exceptional items
UK
Overseas
Total tax charge in the period
10.5
(3.0)
(0. 1)
-
11 .3
3.6
(6.2)
(0.5)
(2.5)
6 months ended
31 December 2002
12 months ended
30 June 2002
16.2
29.4
45.6
(15.2)
30.4
(444.7)
444.6
24.3
-
30.3
54.5
16.4
(2. 1)
0.8
(0.9)
3.0
(1. 1)
16. 1
(3.0)
13. 1
(804. 1)
825.2
76.7
20.2
42. 1
160. 1
48.0
(3.8)
(1.2)
(4.5)
15.5
(8.4)
45.6
(15.2)
30.4
There are tax losses amounting to approximately £94.7m which may be available for relief against profits of certain subsidiary
undertakings in future years. Losses of approximately £41.6m relate to Germany and £26.3m relate to the US.
The group operates in countries where the tax rate is different to the UK corporation tax rate and therefore the future split of
geographical profits may affect future tax charges. The future use of unrecognised tax losses may also effect future tax charges.
The effective tax rate for the period and prior year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30%), the differences
are analysed as follows:
6 months
ended
31 December 
2002
£’m
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
£’m
Loss on ordinary activities before tax
Impairment of goodwill
Amortisation of goodwill
Amounts written-off investments
Other exceptional items
Profit on ordinary activities*
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax in the 
UK of 30% (Prior period 30%)
Adjustment to current and deferred tax in respect of prior periods
Adjustment in respect of foreign tax rates
Tax loss utilisation
Deferred tax assets not recognised
Other items including permanent differences
Tax on operating activities before exceptional items
Tax on costs of exceptional items
* Before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and tax.
£’m £’m £’m £’m Notes to the financial statements
63 www.logicacmg.com Financial statements
9 Profit for the year attributable to LogicaCMG plc
The result for the financial period dealt with in the accounts of the parent company, LogicaCMG plc, was a profit of £22.6m (prior period: £23.3m). 
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no separate profit and loss account is presented in respect of the parent company.
-
-
-
-
22.0
22.0
10 Ordinary dividends paid and proposed
Logica
Interim dividend (interim accounts December 2001) (2.3p per 10p share)
Final dividend (year end accounts June 2002) (3. 1p per 10p share)
CMG
Interim dividend (interim accounts June 2002) (1. 1p per 2.5p share)
Final dividend (year end accounts December 2001) (1.9p per 2.5p share)
LogicaCMG
Proposed final dividend (3p per ordinary 10p share)
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
£’m
10. 1
13.8
6.7
11 .5
-
42. 1
12 months
ended
30 June 
2002
£’m
Dividends amounting to £0.5m (year ended 30 June 2002: £0.8m) in respect of the company's shares held by the employee share trusts
have been deducted in arriving at the aggregate of dividends paid and proposed.
(458.3)
471 .9
24.3
37 .9
748.9
(14.3)
734.6
2.4
737 .0
11 Earnings per share 
Earnings (£’m)
– earnings
– add back exceptional items net of tax
– add back goodwill amortisation
- before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
Number of shares (m)
Weighted average number of shares in issue
Shares held by the employee trusts
Shares used to calculate earnings per share
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares
– share options and warrants
Shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
(835.2)
872.3
76.7
113.8
746.0
(14.6)
731 .4
3.8
735.2
12 months
ended
30 June 
2002
The basic earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with FRS 14 (Earnings per share) and excludes the shares held and
associated dividends by the ESOP trusts which are treated as cancelled. 
Earnings per share, excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, have also been included as the directors consider this figure to
be helpful for a better understanding of the underlying business. In the period ended 31 December 2002 and year ended 30 June 2002,
the group made a loss and consequently the effect of share options is anti-dilutive. Therefore there is no difference between the
weighted average number of shares for the unadjusted basic and diluted loss per share. 19.5
0.3
(0.6)
19.2
£’m
1,831.8
(2.5)
14.4
1,843.7
1,005.7
(0.3)
444.6
24.3
1,474.3
369.4 
826. 1
0.5
0.3
(0.3)
0.5
Notes to the financial statements
64 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
12 Goodwill
Cost at 1 July 2002
Change in value due to currency fluctuations
Additions
Cost at 31 December 2002
Amortisation at 1 July 2002
Change in value due to currency fluctuations
Impairment
Charge for the period
Accumulated amortisation at 31 December 2002
Net book value at 31 December 2002
Net book value at 30 June 2002
13 Tangible assets – the group
Cost at 1 July 2002
Change in value due to currency fluctuations
Additions
Acquisitions
Disposals
Cost at 31 December 2002
Depreciation at 1 July 2002
Change in value due to currency fluctuations
Charge for the year
Disposals
Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2002
Net book value at 31 December 2002
Net book value at 1 July 2002
3.6
-
-
-
(2.4)
1.2
0.3
-
-
(0.2)
0. 1
1. 1
3.3
Freehold
property
£’m
Short
leasehold
property
£’m
199.9
(1.0)
10.2
0.8
(5.9)
204.0
113.9 
(0.4)
17 .6
(4.5)
126.6
77.4
86.0
Equipment
& plant
£’m
239.3
(1.4)
11 .7
0.9
(8.8)
241.7
126.5
(0.5)
19.5
(5.0)
140.5
101 .2
112.8
Total
£’m
14.1 Investments – the group
Group
At 30 June 2002
Additions
Disposals
At 31 December 2002
Trade
investments
£’m
19.0
-
(0.3)
18.7
Own shares
(ESOP)
£’m
Total
£’m
The disposal of trade investments relates to the transfer of the group’s interest in Nord IT from an investment to a subsidiary 
(see note 22).
The investment in own shares relates to the ordinary shares of 10p each held by discretionary trusts which were set up for the benefit of
LogicaCMG employees. The costs of administrating all schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as they are incurred. The
trusts purchase the company's shares in the market, for use in connection with the company's all-employee and discretionary share
option schemes, long-term bonus scheme and equity partnership plans. 
At 31 December 2002, the employee trusts owned 14,243,645 shares (30 June 2002: 14,324,788). Of this shareholding 9,572,765
shares are under option to employees, 504,889 are held for the equity partnership plans (30 June 2002: 552,461) and 22,038 
(30 June 2002: 22,038) are held to fulfil future obligations under the long-term bonus scheme. The trustee has agreed to waive, at the
company's discretion, all rights to any future dividends, save 0.01p per share which may be payable on the Logica Employee Share
Ownership Plan. Such waivers of dividend payable during the six months ended 31 December 2002 amounted to £0.2m (30 June 2002:
£0.4m). The trustees of the CMG Employee Share Ownership Trusts have not waived this right. The market value of the shares owned
by the employee trusts, based on the mid-market price at 31 December 2002, was £21.4m (30 June 2002: £29.2m).
14 Investments 
Assets held under finance leases, capitalised and included in equipment and plant have a cost of £5.7m (30 June 2002: £5.8m) and an
aggregate depreciation of £3. 1m (30 June 2002: £3.4m) and hence a net book value of £2.6m (30 June 2002: £2.4m).
All goodwill is being amortised on a straight line basis over 20 years except goodwill arising on the acquisition of Synectics and
Quaestor retail banking product suite which is being amortised over 10 years. These are the periods over which the directors estimate
that the values of the underlying businesses acquired are expected to exceed the value of the underlying assets. 
See note 4 for the details of the calculation of goodwill impairment.
35.8
(0.4)
1.5
0. 1
(0.5)
36.5
12.3
(0. 1)
1.9
(0.3)
13.8
22.7
23.5 11 .7
5.9
-
17 .6
1.9
0.3
2.2
15.4
9.8
688.5
36.0
(10.3)
714.2
1.9
0.3
2.2
712.0
686.6
Notes to the financial statements
www.logicacmg.com Financial statements 65
14.2 Investments – the company
Cost
At 1 July 2002
Additions
Repayment of loan
At 31 December 2002
Provisions
At 1 July 2002
Charge for the period
At 31 December 2002
Net book value at 31 December 2002
Net book value at 1 July 2002
Subsidiary undertakings
152.4
30. 1
-
182.5
-
-
-
182.5
152.4
Shares
£’m
524.4
-
(10.3)
514. 1
-
-
-
514. 1
524.4
Loans
£’m
676.8
30. 1
(10.3)
696.6
-
-
-
696.6
676.8
Total
£’m
Own shares
£’m
Total
£’m
The company holds, directly or indirectly, 100% (except where shown) of the issued share capital of the following principal subsidiaries:
Incorporated in England and Wales: Incorporated in the Netherlands:
Logica UK Limited CMG BV*
CMG UK Limited* Logica BV*
Logica Mobile Networks Limited CMG Nederland BV*
Radio Spectrum International Consulting Limited * # CMG Participaties en investeringen BV*
CMG Bedrijfsinformatiesystemen BV*
Incorporated in Germany: CMG Public Sector BV*
Logica GmbH* CMG Finance BV*
CMG Finance GmbH* CMG Noord-Nederland BV*
CMG Industrie GmbH* CMG Telecommunications and Utilities BV*
CMG Partner Consult GmbH* CMG Trade, Transport & Industry BV*
CMG Managed Services BV*
Incorporated in Ireland: CMG Maastricht BV*
Logica Mobile Networks Limited* CMG Oost-Nederland BV*
CMG Eindhoven BV*
Incorporated in France: CMG International BV*
CMG (France) S.A.S.* CMG Wireless Data Solutions (International) BV*
Logica SA*
Incorporated in Belgium:
Incorporated in Czech Republic: CMG Belgium NV*
Logica s.r.o.*
Incorporated in USA:
Incorporated in Australia: Logica Inc*
Logica Pty Limited*
Incorporated in India:
Incorporated in Japan: Logica Private Limited*
Logica Japan KK*
* Subsidiaries not held directly by LogicaCMG plc
# 70% holding
During the six months ended 31 December 2002, the companies were engaged in the provision of a wide range of information
technology services. All subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts. All companies operate in their country of incorporation.
As a result of the recent merger, and owing to local regulations in some territories, some subsidiaries have retained 30 June year ends.
Interim accounts to 31 December 2002 have been drawn up for these subsidiaries for consolidation purposes. 1. 1
10.6
11 .7
0.9
1.3
232.2
0.6
235.0
Notes to the financial statements
66 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
15 Debtors
Trade debtors
Amounts recoverable on contracts
Less: amounts subject to non-recourse financing
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings
Other debtors
Corporation taxation recoverable
Deferred tax recoverable
Prepayments and accrued income
The group The company
161 .4
(8.5)
£’m
372.6
152.9
-
33.4
17 .2
1. 1
88.3
665.5
174.0
(8. 1)
31 1 .9
165.9
-
27 .9
8.3
5.3
83.3
602.6
£’m
-
-
-
-
125.9
2.2
-
-
0.2
128.3
31 December
2002
£’m
-
-
-
-
93.0
1.8
-
-
-
94.8
30 June 2002
£’m
In June 2001, Logica UK Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the group, received £4.5m for the sale of future customer receivables
under a contract with the Office for Standards in Education (OFSTED), the written terms of which provide no recourse to Logica other
than any recourse given in the course of normal warranties. Payments of interest and principal from OFSTED in respect of the
securitised receivable are paid directly to the lender and are payable on a straight line basis over seven years in quarterly instalments
that commenced in December 2001. The borrowings are fixed and carry an implicit interest charge of 7.5%. In December 2001, Logica
UK Limited received a further £5.0m from the sale of future receivables under the OFSTED contract. The terms and conditions are
identical to the drawdown in June 2001. Repayments are made from OFSTED directly to the lender and are on a straight line basis over
six years in quarterly instalments that commenced in Ferbuary 2002. Under the terms of these agreements with the lender, neither
Logica UK Limited nor any member of the group is obliged, or intends, to support any losses in respect of the customer receivables.
At 31 December 2002, £8. 1m (30 June 2002: £8.5m) of the principal amount was outstanding.
Debtors due in more than one year at 31 December 2002 amounted to £44.9m (30 June 2002: £42.6m) principally relating to amounts
recoverable on contracts.
17 Other creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Trade creditors
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings
Payments received on account on contracts
Corporation taxation payable
Other taxes and social security costs
Accruals and other creditors
Dividends payable to LogicaCMG plc shareholders
Dividends payable to minority interests
Dividends payable exclude those payable to the employee trusts.
The group
The company
84. 1
-
34.0
39. 1
75.7
184.4
22.0
-
439.3
31 December
2002
£’m
100.7
-
40.3
39.5
88. 1
198.5
20.5
0. 1
487.7
30 June 
2002
£’m
-
1.8
-
5.2
-
9.3
22.0
-
38.3
31 December
2002
£’m
-
-
-
-
-
0.5
13.8
-
14.3
30 June 
2002
£’m
0.9
8.8
9.7
0.9
1.4
227.9
0.5
230.7
16 Borrowings
Amounts falling due within one year
Secured
Obligations under finance leases
Unsecured
Bank loans and overdrafts
Amounts falling due after more than one year and less than five years
Secured
Finance lease liabilities repayable between one and two years
Finance lease liabilities repayable between two and five years
Unsecured
Bank loans maturing May 2006
Loan notes due December 2006
31 December
2002
£’m
30 June 
2002
£’m
The finance leases are secured by fixed or floating charges over plant and equipment.
£’m £’m
31 December 2002 30 June 2002 Notes to the financial statements
www.logicacmg.com Financial statements 67
18 Provisions for liabilities and charges – the group
Balance at 1 July 2002
Change in value due to currency fluctuations
(Credited)/charged to the profit and loss account
Utilised in period
Transferred to debtors
Balance at 31 December 2002
The maturity profile of the provisions excluding pension provisions/(assets) is as follows:
Payable:
Within one year
Between one and two years
Between two and five years
Over five years
0. 1
-
3.2
(3.5)
-
(0.2)
Pension
£’m
2.0 
-
(6.2)
-
4.2
-
13. 1
(0. 1)
-
(5.3)
-
7.7
14.2
(0. 1)
7.7
(13.4)
-
8.4
Deferred
tax
£’m
Vacant
properties
£’m
Restructuring
£’m
0.2
-
-
-
-
0.2
13.6
2.4
0. 1
0.2
16.3
Other
£’m
29.6
(0.2)
4.7
(22.2)
4.2
16. 1
24.6
3.9
0.8
0.2
29.5
Total
£’m
31 December
2002
£’m
30 June 
2002
£’m
1.8
(0.9)
(2.0)
0.2
(0.9)
4.5
0.8
-
-
5.3
Short-term timing differences
Accelerated capital allowances
Pension funding
Losses
31 December
2002
£’m
30 June 
2002
£’m
Vacant properties
Full provision for residual lease commitments, together with other outgoings, for the remaining period of certain leases, after taking
into account potential sub-tenant arrangements. 
Restructuring
In the six months to 31 December 2002, a restructuring charge of £7.7m was made for previously announced restructuring in CMG’s
Noord Nederland business and some actions relating to the proposed merger, which became effective on completion.
This provision outstanding at 31 December 2002 relates to redundancy costs in wireless networks, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium,
Sweden and the UK in relation to both the current period restructuring and Logica’s prior period restructuring.
Deferred tax
Assets are recognised/(provision) is made in the accounts for deferred taxation as follows:
19 Share capital
Ordinary shares of 10p each 
Authorised
Allotted, issued and fully paid
299,583,759 shares were issued by way of the merger (see note 21).
1, 100,000,000
7 48,963,876
31 December 2002
Number £’m
110.0
74.9
500,000,000
449,284,622
30 June 2002
Number £’m
50.0
44.9
During the period, 13,015,218 options were granted over both unissued and existing shares under employee share schemes and are
exercisable from 2005-2012. Options were granted at prices ranging from 92p to 122p. Options granted under SAYE schemes were
granted at a 20% discount to market price. Discretionary options were granted at market price. Of the options granted during the year
6,833,314 options granted at 122p only become exercisable in full if the growth in the company's earnings per share before
amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items over any relevant three-year period has exceeded the UK Retail Prices Index over that
period by an average of at least 7% per annum. Awards granted under the equity partnership plans only become exercisable in full if the
growth in the company's earnings per share before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items over the three-year performance
period has exceeded the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index over that period by an average of at least 7% per annum for the executive
plan and 5% per annum for the employee plan.
During the six months to 31 December 2002, 95,495 shares were exercised under share option schemes as follows:
Granted
1996
1997
At 31 December 2002 there were 43,560,477 options which had been granted under employee share schemes at prices ranging from
40p to 2,838p and exercisable between 2002 and 2012.
Exercise price
(pence per share)
11 5. 1 3
141.88
Number
exercised
66,717
28,778 Notes to the financial statements
68 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
20 Capital and reserves – the group
Logica at beginning of period
CMG at beginning of period
Merger adjustment
Balance at 1 July 2002 (Restated)
Change in value due to currency fluctuations
Retained loss for the period
Dividends paid and proposed
Shares issued during the period
Transfer between reserves
Balance at 31 December 2002
44.9
15.5
14.5
74.9
-
-
-
-
-
74.9
Share
capital
£’m
704.7
13.2
(13.2)
704.7
-
-
-
0. 1
-
704.8
Share
premium
account
£’m
2.6
-
-
2.6
-
-
-
-
-
2.6
Other
reserves
£’m
(1 13. 1)
104.8
-
(8.3)
(4.6)
(458.3)
(22.0)
-
247.6
(245.6)
Profit
and loss
account
£’m
-
247.6
(1.3)
246.3
-
-
-
-
(247.6)
(1.3)
Merger
reserve
£’m
639. 1
381. 1
-
1,020.2
(4.6)
(458.3)
(22.0)
0. 1
-
535.4
Total
£’m
The group's profit and loss reserve at 31 December 2002 is stated net of goodwill of £111.5m (30 June 2002: £111.3m) 
which was written-off against reserves. The transfer from the merger reserve to the profit and loss account reserve of £247.6m
represents the amortisation and impairment of goodwill arising in the period from the acquisition of Admiral plc.
21 Business merger
The merger was effected by way of offers made by Logica plc for the whole of the issued share capital of CMG plc, being shares of 
2.5p, for a consideration of 299,583,759 ordinary shares of 10p each, the fair value of which amounted to £448.6m. This offer became
unconditional on 30 December 2002. The merger has been accounted for using the merger accounting principles set out in FRS 6
(Acquisitions and mergers). Accordingly, the financial information for the current period has been presented, and that for the prior
period restated, as if Logica and CMG had been merged throughout the current and prior periods. The book value of net assets of
Logica and CMG at the date of the merger were £472.8m and £64. 1m respectively. No adjustments are required to align the accounting
policies of the two businesses.
As the merger became unconditional on 30 December 2002 and the period ended on 31 December 2002 no split of results pre and
post merger has been presented.
Profit and loss account for the 6 months ended 31 December 2002
Turnover
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment, restructuring 
and exceptional items
Loss on ordinary activities before tax
Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Loss on ordinary activities after tax
Loss for the period
Dividends – ordinary shares
Retained loss for the period
450.2
31 .0
(136. 1)
(8. 1)
(144.2)
(144.4)
(22.3)
(166.7)
Logica plc
pre merger
£’m
432.3
28. 1
(308.6)
(5.0)
(313.6)
(313.9)
0.3
(313.6)
CMG plc
pre merger
£’m
882.5
59. 1
(444.7)
(13. 1)
(457.8)
(458.3)
(22.0)
(480.3)
Total
£’m
Capital and reserves – the company
Balance at 1 July 2002
Transfer of CMG employee trusts
Retained profit for the period
Shares issued during the period
Balance at 31 December 2002
44.9
-
-
30.0
74.9
Share
capital
£’m
704.7
-
-
0. 1
704.8
Share
premium
account
£’m
23.3
-
-
-
23.3
Special
reserve
£’m
7.9
4.9
0.6
-
13.4
Profit
and loss
account
£’m
780.8
4.9
0.6
30. 1
816.4
Total
£’m (458.3)
(4.6)
(462.9)
(313.9)
(3.6)
(317.5)
(144.4)
(1.0)
(145.4)
22 Acquisitions
Acquisitions
All acquisitions below have been accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. The provisional fair value of the net assets
acquired for all acquisitions equates to their book value. As the businesses were acquired shortly before the period end the fair values
shown are provisional.
During the period the group made the following acquisitions resulting in goodwill of £14.4m:
eGlobal Pacific, an Australian listed company, was acquired on 12 September 2002, for a cash consideration of AU$ 6.5m (£2.2m). Book
value of net assets £0.6m.
The group increased its effective interest in Nord IT to 51% on 1 July 2002 and from that date had effective control. As a result, Nord
IT has been accounted for as a subsidiary in accordance with FRS 2 (Accounting for subsidiary undertakings). The further 18% of the
share capital was acquired for £2.0m during the period, the payment of which is deferred. This resulted in a total consideration of £2.3m
for the 51% holding. Book value of net assets £1.0m.
Great Lakes Technologies Group, a company incorporated in the US, was acquired on 15 November 2002 for a consideration of 
US$ 21.5m (£13.8m). Book value of net assets £2.3m.
The following table sets out the provisional fair value of the net assets of Great Lakes Technologies:
Fixed assets
Debtors
Creditors
Net assets
2,008.8
167 .7
(804. 1)
(30.4)
(834.5)
(835.2)
(42. 1)
(877.3)
(835.2)
17 .8
(817.4)
0.6
3. 1
(1.4)
2.3
£’m
Profit and loss account for the 12 months ended 30 June 2002
Turnover
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment, restructuring and
exceptionals
Loss on ordinary activities before tax
Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Loss on ordinary activities after tax
Loss for the year
Dividends – ordinary shares
Retained loss for the year
Notes to the financial statements
www.logicacmg.com Financial statements 69
21 Business merger (continued)
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses for the 6 months ended
31 December 2002
Loss for the period
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments
Total recognised losses
Logica plc
pre merger
£’m
CMG plc
pre merger
£’m
Total
£’m
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses for the 12 months ended 
30 June 2002
Loss for the year
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments
Total recognised losses
(257.4)
14.3
(243. 1)
Logica plc
pre merger
£’m
(577.8)
3.5
(574.3)
CMG plc
pre merger
£’m
Total
£’m
1, 102.3
110.9
(234.8)
(22.2)
(257.0)
(257.4)
(23.9)
(281.3)
Logica plc
pre merger
£’m
906.5
56.8 
(569.3)
(8.2)
(577.5)
(577.8)
(18.2)
(596.0)
CMG plc
pre merger
£’m
Total
£’m Notes to the financial statements
70 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
24 Financial instruments
The main risks arising from, and impacted by, the financial assets and liabilities of the group are foreign currency risk, interest rate risk
and liquidity risk. The group's policies with respect to managing these risks are set out below. The group does not undertake any trading
or speculative activity in financial instruments. It operates within policies and procedures that are formally approved by the board,
which include strict controls on the use of financial instruments in managing the group's risk. Short-term debtors, creditors and
provisions less than one year have been excluded from the disclosure below. 
Management of cash and current asset investments
Surplus funds are invested in high quality liquid marketable investments, including bank deposits, asset management funds and
commercial paper. 
Foreign currency risk
The group reviews the credit quality of counter parties and limits individual aggregate credit exposure accordingly. Group companies
have their local currency as their functional currency. The majority of the turnover and expenses of group companies are denominated
in their local currency. To mitigate foreign currency risk, material contracted transactional amounts not denominated in local currencies
of group companies are hedged by means of forward contracts, foreign currency options or currency overdrafts. Remittances are then
applied to the overdrafts. The overdrafts are part of set-off arrangements against the positive cash balances of the group companies. As
a result of hedging provided by the use of currency overdrafts and forward contracts there are no material transactional currency
exposures which are consistent with the prior year. For this reason, a table of foreign currency exposures as required by FRS 13
(Derivatives and other financial instruments) has not been presented. The group does not hedge the translation effect of the
consolidated profit and loss account.
At period end and during the period, the translation of the group’s balance sheet has been substantially hedged by managing the
currency mix of the group debt by the use of foreign currency borrowings and forward contracts. The most significant consequence is
to substantially hedge the group's euro denominated assets. The selected currency mix takes into account the availability and cost of
funds, and the sensitivity of group gearing and earnings ratios to exchange rate movements. 
Currency
Sterling
Euro
Other currencies
At 31 December 2002
(1.5)
(0.8)
(0.4)
(2.7)
Financial
liabilities
on which no
interest is 
paid £’m
(1 12.3)
(124.7)
-
(237.0)
Floating
rate
financial
liabilities
£’m
(3. 1)
(0. 1)
(0.2)
(3.4)
Fixed
rate
financial
liabilities
£’m
0.2
77.5
55.6
133.3
Floating
rate
financial
assets
£’m
(1 16.7)
(48. 1)
55.0
(109.8)
31 December
2002
Total
£’m
23 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Loss attributable to shareholders
Dividends
Shares issued during the period net of expenses
Other recognised gains and losses relating to the period
Net reduction of shareholders’ funds for the period
Shareholders’ funds at beginning of period
Shareholders’ funds at period end
(458.3)
(22.0)
(480.3)
0. 1
(4.6)
(484.8)
1,020.2
535.4
6 months ended
31 December 
2002
£’m
(835.2)
(42. 1)
(877.3)
8.2
17 .8
(851.3)
1,87 1.5
1,020.2
12 months ended
30 June 2002
£’m
Interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the group's financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2002 was as follows: Currency
Sterling
Euro
Other currencies
At 30 June 2002
(2.5)
(1.5)
(2.5)
(6.5)
Financial
liabilities on
which no
interest is paid 
£’m
(139.7)
(103.4)
-
(243. 1)
Floating
rate
financial
liabilities
£’m
(3.0)
(0.2)
(0.2)
(3.4)
Fixed
rate
financial
liabilities
£’m
40.0
85.6
29.4
155.0
Floating
rate
financial
assets
£’m
(105.2)
(19.5)
26.7
(98.0)
30 June 2002
Total
£’m
Notes to the financial statements
www.logicacmg.com Financial statements 71
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The book value of primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the group's operations is not materially different from the
fair value of those instruments. Fair values of interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts are based on the market
price of comparable derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date. The following table provides a comparison by category
of the carrying amounts and fair values of the group's interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts at 31 December
2002 and 30 June 2002.
24 Financial instruments (continued)
The interest rate profile of the group's financial assets and liabilities at 30 June 2002 was as follows:
Floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at rates, based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents, which are fixed in advance for
periods of between one day and six months. The weighted average period until maturity for floating rate financial liabilities on which
interest is paid is 40 months. 
Fixed rate liabilities represent amounts outstanding on finance leases. The average interest rate on fixed rate liabilities for the period is
6.9%. The weighted average period for which rates are fixed on these financial liabilities is 26 months. 
Financial liabilities on which no interest is paid relate to provisions greater than one year as disclosed in note 18.
All financial assets except for £0.5m of fixed asset investments earn interest at floating rates based on relevant national LIBID
equivalents or goverment bonds fixed in advance for periods ranging from one day to one month.
The group’s policy is to fund its operations through a mixture of retained earnings, equity and bank debt. To ensure immediate
access without material interest rate penalty, all group cash and liquid resources balances were invested on a floating rate basis
throughout the period.
Currency swaps
Forward contracts
-
-
-
-
Book value
£’m
1.0
3.5
-
-
Fair value
£’m
-
-
-
-
Book value
£’m
(0.9)
(3.0)
0.2
-
Fair value
£’m
Derivative financial instruments held to manage
interest rate and currency profile
Derivative financial instruments held to hedge future sales
Currency swaps
Forward contracts
31 December 2002 30 June 2002
Liquidity risk
The group's policy is to maintain sufficient headroom to meet its foreseeable financing requirements. Substantial committed facilities 
are maintained with a group of leading international banks. At 31 December 2002 the group had committed floating rate facilities 
of £350m of which £230m matures in May 2006 and £120m matures in November 2003, £236.7m had been drawn down at 31
December 2002. During the period the highest amount drawn on these facilities was £258.4m.
Hedges
The group hedges its net transactional exposure arising on trade debtors and creditors and all committed trade flows fully through the
use of forward contracts and overdrafts. The group selectively hedges its anticipated currency cash flow exposures on some product
related trade up to 18 months ahead through the use of forward contracts and selective purchase of currency options.  2.3
(0. 1)
2.4
2. 1
4.5
4.5
72 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
Notes to the financial statements
25 Notes on consolidated cash flow
25. 1 Reconciliation of operating loss to net cash inflow from operating activities
Operating loss
Goodwill amortisation and impairment
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets
Decrease in stock
Decrease/(increase) in debtors
(Decrease)/increase in creditors and provisions
Add back cash outflow in respect of exceptional items (see note 4)
Net cash inflow from trading operations (before exceptional items)
(417.5)
468.9
19.5
0.8
57 .0
(90.8)
37 .9
21 .9
59.8
6 months 
ended
31 December
2002
£’m
(776.8)
901.9
37 .7
0.2
(37.3)
9.2
134.9
14.3
149.2
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
£’m
Gains and losses on hedges at 1 July 2002
Arising in previous years included in current period income
Gains and losses not included in current period income
Arising before 1 July 2002
Arising in 6 months ending 31 December 2002
Gains and losses on hedges at 31 December 2002
Of which:
Gains and losses expected to be included in 2003 income
3.5
1. 1
2.4
2. 1
4.5
4.5
Gains
£’m
(1.2)
(1.2)
-
-
-
-
Losses
£’m
Total net
gains/losses
£’m
25.2 Reconciliation of cash flow to change in net (debt)/funds
Net (debt)/funds at period opening
Cash
Liquid resources
Overdrafts and bank loans within one year
Finance lease obligations
Loans and borrowings due after more than one year
Net cash outflow before use of liquid resources and financing
Shares issued
Other movements
Exchange differences
Net (debt)/funds as at period closing
Cash
Liquid resources
Overdrafts and bank loans within one year
Finance lease obligations
Loans and borrowings due after more than one year
(91.7)
(15.4)
(107. 1)
125.9
29. 1
(10.6)
(3.3)
(232.8)
(15.8)
0. 1
0.7
(0.4)
133.3
-
(8.8)
(3.2)
(228.4)
6 months ended
31 December 2002
£’m £’m
176.6
242.3
(1.4)
(3.4)
(235. 1)
(278.4)
8.2
(1.7)
1.2
125.9
29. 1
(10.6)
(3.3)
(232.8)
12 months ended
30 June 2002
£’m £’m
179.0
(270.7)
(91.7)
24 Financial instruments (continued)
Currency risk on some contract bids is hedged proportionate to the likelihood of the contract being won. For these contracts the
currency risk is fully hedged once the contract has been won. 
The table below shows the extent to which the group has off-balance sheet (unrecognised) gains and losses in respect of financial
instruments used as hedges at the beginning and end of the period. It also shows the amount of such gains and losses which have been
included in the profit and loss account for the period and those gains and losses which are expected to be included in next year's, or
later, profit and loss accounts. The annual lease payments to which the group was committed at 31 December 2002 under operating leases were as follows:
Notes to the financial statements
www.logicacmg.com Financial statements 73
26 Contingent liabilities
The company has guaranteed certain contracts in the normal course of business and bank borrowings of its subsidiaries. It has also
provided guarantees to vendors in respect of the deferred element on acquisitions.
28 Operating lease commitments
On leases expiring:
Within one year
Between two and five years
After five years
4.0
16.2
32.3
52.5
30 June
2002
£’m
3.7
14. 1
33.5
51 .3
31 December
2002
£’m
15.0
38.4
0.6
54.0
31 December
2002
£’m
14.9
34.3
-
49.2
30 June
2002
£’m
27 Future capital expenditure
Contracted capital expenditure at the balance sheet date: 0.8
31 December
2002
£’m
1.6
30 June 
2002
£’m
Land & buildings Other
Turnover
Net operating costs
Operating loss
Before restructuring, goodwill amortisation and impairment
Restructuring costs
Goodwill amortisation
Goodwill impairment
Operating loss
Profit on disposal of operations
Amounts written off investments
Loss on ordinary activities before interest
Net interest payable
Loss on ordinary activities before tax
Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Loss on ordinary activities after tax
Equity minority interests
Loss for the period
Dividends – ordinary shares
Retained loss for the period
Unaudited
6 months
ended
30 June 2002
Total
£’m
944.9
(1,208.8)
62.6
(33.7)
(31.6)
(261.2)
(263.9)
0.5
(20.2)
(283.6)
(3.5)
(287. 1)
(7.8)
(294.9)
(0.3)
(295.2)
(20.5)
(315.7)
29 Unaudited comparative pro forma information
The additional information consisting of the detailed unaudited comparative pro forma information has been prepared from the
accounting records of the company. While it does not form part of the statutory financial statements, it should be read in conjunction
with them and the responsibilities section of the auditors report thereon.
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the 12 months to 31 December 2002, as disclosed on the profit and loss
account, represents the audited figures for the six months to 31 December 2002 for Logica plc and CMG plc, plus the six months’
unaudited figures to 30 June 2002 for CMG plc, plus the 12 months audited figures to 30 June 2002 for Logica plc, less the six
months unaudited figures for Logica plc to 31 December 2001. 
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the six months to 30 June 2002 has been used for comparative purposes in the
financial review. These figures represent the unaudited CMG plc figures for the six months to 30 June 2002 plus the audited Logica
plc figures for the 12 months to 30 June 2002 less the unaudited figures for the six months to 31 December 2001. (0.980)
(0.980)
0.082
0.081
74 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
Euro translation of consolidated primary financial statements
The 2002 profit and loss account and cash flow statements in euros have been calculated by converting the sterling figures to euros at
an average rate of 1.57 to £1 (12 months ended 30 June 2002: euros 1.61 to £1). The balance sheet in euros has been calculated by
converting the sterling figures to euros at the period end rate of euro 1.53 to £1 (30 June 2002: euros 1.54 to £1). The unaudited
comparative profit and loss account for the 12 months to 31 December 2002 has been calculated by converting the sterling figures at
an average rate of €1.59 to £1.
Turnover
Net operating costs
Operating profit/(loss)
Before restructuring, goodwill amortisation
and impairment
Restructuring costs
Goodwill amortisation
Goodwill impairment
Operating profit/(loss)
Profit on disposal of operations
Merger transaction costs
Amounts written-off investments
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest
Net interest payable
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before tax
Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities after tax
Equity minority interests
Profit/(loss) for the period
Dividends – ordinary shares
Retained loss for the period
-
(710. 1)
-
(12. 1)
-
(698.0)
(710. 1)
-
(35.5)
-
(745.6)
-
(745.6)
4.7
(740.9)
-
(740.9)
-
(740.9)
Exceptional
items
€’m
1,385.5
(1,330.9)
92.8
-
(38.2)
-
54.6
-
-
-
54.6
(7.2)
47 .4
(25.3)
22. 1
(0.8)
21 .3
(34.5)
(13.2)
2,905.6
(3,989.0)
193.5
(65.8)
(88.9)
(1, 122.2)
(1,083.4)
0.8
(35.9)
(32. 1)
(1, 150.6)
(12.9)
(1, 163.5)
(33.2)
(1, 196.7)
(1.3)
(1, 198.0)
(67.6)
(1,265.6)
Before
exceptional
items
€’m
Unaudited
12 months
ended
31 December
2002
Total
€’m
1,385.5
(2,041.0)
92.8
(12. 1)
(38.2)
(698.0)
(655.5)
-
(35.5)
-
(691.0)
(7.2)
(698.2)
(20.6)
(718.8)
(0.8)
(719.6)
(34.5)
(754. 1)
Total
€’m
3,234.2
(4,484.9)
270.0
(68.6)
(123.5)
(1,328.6)
(1,250.7)
0.8
-
(32.5)
(1,282.4)
(12.2)
(1,294.6)
(48.9)
(1,343.5)
(1. 1)
(1,344.6)
(67.8)
(1,412.4)
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
€’m
Consolidated profit and loss account
for the 6 months ended 31 December 2002
6 months ended 31 December 2002
Earnings per share
– Basic
– Diluted
Adjusted – before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items net of tax
– Basic
– Diluted
(1 .633)
(1 .633)
0. 1 73
0. 1 72
(1.839)
(1.839)
0.251
0.250
Unaudited
12 months
ended
31 December
2002
€
6 months
ended
31 December
2002
€
12 months
ended
30 June 2002
€ www.logicacmg.com Financial statements 75
30 June 2002
10.3
1,024.9
44.8
193.9
1,273.9
(18.0)
(751. 1)
(769. 1)
(361.9)
(2.3)
31 December 2002
Fixed assets
Intangible assets
Tangible assets
Share of net assets of joint venture
Investments – own shares
Trade investments
Current assets
Stock
Debtors
Investments: liquid resources
Cash at bank and in hand
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings
Other creditors
Net current assets
Total assets less current liabilities
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
Borrowings
Other creditors
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Net assets
Capital and reserves
Called-up equity share capital 
Share premium account
Other reserves
Profit and loss account
Merger reserve
Total shareholders' funds
Equity minority interests
Capital employed
565.2
154.8
2. 1
28.6
0.8
751.5
447.6
1, 199. 1
(353.0)
(24.6)
821.5
114.6
1,078.3
4.0
(375.8)
(1.9)
819.2
2.3
821.5
€’m
8.6
922.0
-
203.9
1, 134.5
(14.8)
(672. 1)
(686.9)
(353.0)
-
€’m €’m
1,272.2
173.7
1.7
29.2
0.8
1,477.6
504.8
1,982.4
(364.2)
(45.6)
1,572.6
115.3
1,085.3
4.0
(12.8)
379.3
1,57 1. 1
1.5
1,572.6
€’m
See page 74 for basis of translation.
Consolidated balance sheet
31 December 2002
Euro translation of consolidated primary financial statements 76 Financial statements LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
21 7 .2
(13. 1)
(85.7)
(53.3)
(446.3)
(67. 1)
(448.3)
343.3
(5.5)
(1 10.5)
12 months ended
30 June 2002
€’m €’m
6 months ended
31 December 2002
€’m €’m
240.2
(23.0)
(0.5)
11. 1
(22.9)
(0.8)
(64.8)
6.9
7.4
5.6
(8.4)
(446.3)
-
13.2 
(16.4)
(2.3)
59.5
(6.5)
(9.6)
(15.3)
(20.7)
(32.2)
(24.8)
45.7
(1.6)
19.3
See page 74 for basis of translation.
Net cash inflow from trading operations
Cash outflow related to exceptional items
Net cash inflow from operating activities
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Dividends paid to minority interests
Interest received
Interest paid
Interest paid on finance lease rental payments
Net cash outflow from returns on investments
and servicing of finance
Taxation
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets
Sale of tangible fixed assets
Sale of trade investments
Sale of own shares by employee share trusts
Purchase of own shares by employee share trusts
Net cash outflow for capital expenditure and 
financial investment
Acquisitions and disposals
Purchase and disposal of businesses
Net cash acquired and disposed with businesses
Net cash outflow for acquisitions and disposals
Equity dividends paid
Net cash outflow before management of liquid resources
and financing
Management of liquid resources
Cash withdrawn from deposits
Financing activities
Proceeds from issue of shares
Increase in loans
Capital element of finance lease rental payments
Total financing activities
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the period
93.9
(34.4)
-
4. 1
(10. 1)
(0.5)
(21.5)
5.7
-
0.5
-
(26.8)
6. 1
0.2
-
(1.8)
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the 6 months ended 31 December 2002
Euro translation of consolidated primary financial statements www.logicacmg.com Financial calendar 77
Financial calendar
2003
5 March Preliminary results announced
7 April Annual report and AGM notice posted 
to shareholders
22 April Share register closed (record date)
15 May Annual general meeting 3:00pm
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
16 May Final dividend paid to shareholders
19 May Informative shareholders meeting
Amsterdam
3 September Interim results announced
26 September Share register closed (record date)
30 October Interim dividend paid
Shareholder information online
LogicaCMG’s registrars are now able to notify shareholders by email of the availability of an electronic version of shareholder
information. Whenever new shareholder information becomes available, such as LogicaCMG’s interim and full year results, Northern
Registrars will notify you by email and you will be able to access, read and print documents at your own convenience. Notices of
shareholder meetings and proxy forms will continue to be posted to you.
To register your interest, you need to go to www.northernregistrars.co.uk, select “Shareholder Services”, select “Check Shareholding”
and “Email Registration” and follow the prompts. You will be asked to enter your unique “Holder Code”, which you will find at the top
of your share certificate and on dividend tax vouchers.
Should you change your mind at a later date, you may cancel your request to receive electronic communication by contacting Northern
Registrars by post or through their website. If you wish to continue receiving shareholder information in the usual printed form, there is
no need to take any action.
Registrars
Northern Registrars Limited
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
HD8 0LA
United Kingdom
www.northernregistrars.co.uk
Telephone:  +44 (0) 1484 600900
Fax:  +44 (0) 1484 600911
Information for investors:
Is provided on the internet as part of the group’s website which can be found at: www.logicacmg.com/investors
Investor enquiries:
Can be directed via our website or by contacting Tony Richards, head of investor relations, tony.richards@logicacmg.com.
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7446 4372.  Fax: +44 (0) 20 7872 9947. LogicaCMG worldwide
78 LogicaCMG worldwide LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
HEADQUARTERS
LONDON
Stephenson House
75 Hampstead Road
London NW1 2PL
tel +44 20 7637 9111
fax +44 20 7468 7006
AUSTRALIA
SYDNEY
5th Floor, 76 Berry St
North Sydney NSW 2060
tel +61 2 9927 3000
fax +61 2 9922 7466
AUSTRIA
VIENNA
Mariahilfer Strasse 123/3
A-1060 Vienna
tel +43 1 5 99 99 510
fax +43 1 5 99 99 530
BELGIUM
BRUSSELS
LogicaCMG House 
Woluwedal 106
Boulevard de la Woluwe
B-1200 Brussels
tel +32 2 745 0745
fax +32 2 705 5193
BRAZIL
SÃO PAULO
Centro Empresarial Nações Unidas
Torre Norte 
Av. das Nações Unidas
12.901 - 9
0
andar
04578-903 - São Paulo - SP
tel +55 11 5504 8300
fax +55 11 5504 8301
CANADA
TORONTO 
55 University Avenue
Suite 1710, PO Box 53
Toronto
Ontario M5J2H7
tel +1 416 594 6661
fax +1 416 594 1667
CHINA
BEIJING
Unit 8B12, Hanwei Plaza
No 7 Guanghua Road, Chaoyang District
Beijing 100004
China
Tel +86 10 6561 2761
Fax +86 10 6561 2765 
CZECH REPUBLIC
PRAGUE
Na Okraji 335/42
162 00, Prague 6
tel +420 2 840 20 111
fax +420 2 840 20 112
EGYPT
CAIRO
31 Ismail Mohammed St
Zamalek
Cairo
tel +202 735 0116/7/8
fax +202 735 0654
FRANCE
PARIS
8, rue de Citeaux
75012 Paris
tel +33 1 55 78 50 00
fax +33 1 55 78 50 01
GERMANY
HAMBURG
Pappelallee 33
22089 Hamburg
tel +49 40 68 86 20
fax +49 40 68 86 21 11
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST
Verhalom u. 12-16 . 5/50
1023 Budapest
tel +36 1 326 2706
fax +36 1 326 0457
INDIA
BANGALORE
No 310/2
1st Main Road
Block 5, Koramangala
Bangalore  560 095
tel +91 80 553 8281
fax +91 80 553 5723
INDONESIA
JAKARTA
Ariobimo Central 4/F
JL. H.R. Rasuna Said
Block X-2 No 5
Jakarta 12950
tel +6221 526 4702
+6221 527 0737
+6221 527 0724
fax +6221 252 5760
+6221 526 4714
IRELAND
DUBLIN
5 Custom House Plaza
Harbourmaster Place
Dublin 1
tel +353 1 819 3400
fax +353 1 819 3401
JAPAN
TOKYO
13F Koraku Mori Bldg
1-4-14 Koraku
Bunkyo-ku
Tokyo 112-0004
Japan
tel +81 3 3816 7393
fax +81 3 3816 2791
LUXEMBOURG
5, rue du Fort-Bourbon
L-1249 Luxembourg
tel +352 48 52 221
fax +352 49 18 48
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR
601, Level 6, Uptown 1
1, Jalan SS21/58
Damansara Uptown
47400 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
tel +603 77 256890
fax +603 77 266346
NETHERLANDS
AMSTELVEEN
Prof E.M. Meijerslaan 2
1183 Av. Amstelveen
PO Box 159
1180 Ad. Amstelveen
tel +31 20 503 3000
fax +31 20 503 3012 www.logicacmg.com LogicaCMG worldwide 79
NORWAY
OSLO
Tollbugt, 7
P O Box 326 Sentrum
N-0103 Oslo
tel +47 24 14 6000
fax +47 24 14 6001
PHILIPPINES
PASIG CITY,
Antel Global Corporate Centre 
Unit  No 3102
Julia Vargas Avenue
Ortigas Centre Pasig City
Philippines 1600
tel + 632 900 8615
fax + 632 687 1342
SAUDI ARABIA
RIYADH
First Floor
South Tower
ABRAJ Atta’awuneya
King Fahd Road
P.O.Box 68859
Riyadh 11537
tel +9661 218 0600
fax +9661 218 0400
SINGAPORE
150 Beach Road
#08-01/04 Gateway West
Singapore 189720
tel +65 677 62711
fax +65 639 63667
SLOVAKIA
BRATISLAVA 
Organizacna zlozka
Lazaretska 12
81 1 08 Bratislava
tel +421 2 57 882 111
fax +421 2 57 882 112
SOUTH AFRICA
JOHANNESBURG
Block B
The Wedgewood Office Park
3 Muswell Road South
Bryanston
Johannesburg 2021 
tel  +27 11 463 8515
fax  +27 11 463 6054
SPAIN
MADRID
Serrano Galvache 56
Edificio (Central Empresarial 
Parque Norte)
Madrid 28033
tel +34 91 788 7000
fax + 34 91 788 7001
SWEDEN
STOCKHOLM
St Eriksgatan 117
S-113 43
Stockholm
tel +46 8 705 7700
fax +46 8 705 7777
SWITZERLAND
ZURICH
Grindelstrasse 6
8303 Bassersdorf
tel +41 1 838 3535
fax +41 1 838 3540
TAIWAN
TAIPEI
Suite 7, 8th Floor
No. 188
Nanking East Road
Section 5
Taipei 105
Taiwan
Republic of China
tel +886 2 2763 5945
fax +886 2 2763 8805
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
DUBAI 
Dubai Internet City
Building 4, Third Floor
P O Box 26379
Dubai
tel +971 4 391 6200
fax +971 4 391 8800
UNITED KINGDOM
LONDON 
Stephenson House
75 Hampstead Road
London NW1 2PL
tel +44 20 7637 9111
fax +44 20 7468 7006
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
LEXINGTON MA
32 Hartwell Avenue
Lexington
Massachusetts
MA 02421
tel +1 617 476 8000
fax +1 617 476 8010
VENEZUELA
CARACAS
Avenida Francisco de Miranda
Centro Lido
Torre D piso 4
El Rosal
Caracas 1060
tel +58 212 905 6323
fax +58 212 905 6364/5
A comprehensive list of LogicaCMG
offices worldwide can be viewed at
http://www.logicacmg.com/contact/
index.asp Client selection
80 Client selection LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
3i
ABN AMRO
Achmea Groep Holdings
AEGON
Airbus (EADS)
Akzo Nobel
American Electric Power
Amsterdam Airport Schiphol
Astrium
AWG
BNP Paribas
Barclays Bank
Belastingdienst Automatiserings Centrum
National Grid Transco
BP
Britannia Airways
Britannia Building Society
British Energy 
British Telecom
British Waterways
Centrica
Ceska sporitelna
Commerzbank AG
Companies House
Countrywide Property Lawyers 
Credit Suisse First Boston
Crown Prosecution Service
DAK
Decentral Government (NL)
Delta Lloyd
Department of Trade & Industry (UK)
Department of T ransport Local
Government & Regions (UK)
Detemobil
Deutsche Bank
Deutsche Post 
Dong Naturgas A/S
Dornier GmbH
Dwr Cymru (Welsh Water)
ECGD
Electrabel
Elexon
Eneco Energie
Energis
Environment Agency
Ericsson
Essent
Ford
Foreign & Commonwealth Office
Fortis
France Telecom/Orange
GCHQ
George Wimpey
Government Communications
Haringey Council
Health & Safety Executive
Hewlett Packard
Hutchison 3G
ING
Integral Energy
KBC
KLM
KPN
Lloyds TSB Group
London Borough Of Waltham Forest
Lotus
Luottokunta
Lyondell
Loodswezen (Dutch Pilot Service)
Metropolitan Police
Min. van Defensie (NL)
Min. van Economische Zaken (NL)
Min. van Justitie (NL)
Min. van Onderwijs, Cultuur (NL)
Min. van Verkeer & Waterstaat (NL)
Min. van Volkshuisvesting (NL)
Min. van SZW (NL)
Ministry of Defence (UK)
mmO2
National Grid Transco
National Trust
Nederlandse Gasunie N.V.
Northern Electric
Nederlandse Spoorwegen
Nstar Electric & Gas
NSW Dept Of Public Works & Services
Ofsted
Operator trhu selektrinon, A.S.
Philips
Politie
PTK Centertel
Public Guardianship Office
RabobankGroup
Radio Communications Agency
Railtrack
Renault
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
Sanoma
Saritel
SBC
ScottishPower
SESL
SFR
Shell
Société Générale
Somerfield Stores Ltd
Southwest Gas Corporation
Start
Stet Hellas
Swisscom
The Home Office
T-Mobile
TNT 
Towry Law
University for Industry (ufi)
Unilever
Vodafone
Volkswagen AG
Westel
Wolters Kluwer
Yarra Valley Water
Zwitserleven Designed and produced by Wardour Communications. Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd.
With special thanks to all LogicaCMG employees who kindly agreed to be photographed for this report.
