 Annual report and accounts 2005
Releasing 
your potential
LCMG_ARA05_Cover  3/29/06  3:10 PM  Page 1 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
LogicaCMG is a major international
force in IT services. It employs 30,000*
people across 36 countries.
LogicaCMG’s focus is on enabling its
customers to build and maintain
leadership positions using LogicaCMG’s
deep industry knowledge and its track
record for successful delivery. 
The company provides business
consulting, systems integration and IT
and business process outsourcing
across diverse markets including
telecoms, financial services, energy and
utilities, industry, distribution and
transport and the public sector.
Headquartered in Europe, LogicaCMG
is listed on both the London Stock
Exchange and Euronext (Amsterdam)
(LSE:LOG; Euronext:LOG). More
information is available at
www.logicacmg.com 
Contents
1 Highlights
2-3 Chairman’s statement
4-7 Chief executive’s review
8-11 Business overview
12-19 Financial review
20-21 Directors’ and management biographies
22-23 Report of the directors
24-26 Corporate social responsibility statement
27-30 Corporate governance
31-38 Report of the remuneration committee
39 Independent auditors’ report
40-87 Consolidated financial statements
88 Independent auditors’ report
89-100 Company financial statements
101-103 Euro translation of selected financial information
104 Shareholder information
Our mission is to help leading organisations 
worldwide achieve their business objectives 
through the innovative delivery of information 
technology and business process solutions
* Subsequent to the acquisition of Unilog. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Highlights  P1
Highlights
UK GAAP
1
IFRS
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Five-year summary
The five year financial summary below includes selected information on a calendar year basis, which has been subject to audit except for the years 
ended 31 December 2001 and 2002. Information relating to 2001 and 2002 is on an unaudited proforma basis for Logica and CMG, which merged 
on 30 December 2002.
The amounts disclosed for the year ended 31 December 2003 and earlier periods are presented under UK generally accepted accounting principles 
(‘UK GAAP’) because it is not practicable to restate amounts for prior periods to the group’s date of transition to International Financial Reporting
Standards (‘IFRS’) on 1 January 2004. The principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS for LogicaCMG are explained in note 38 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Revenue 2,146.5 1,823.7 1,706.6 1,658.4 1,834.1
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation / impairment and 
exceptional items 208.9 118.0 111.2 98.2 120.7
Goodwill amortisation / impairment and exceptional items (658.6) (845.4) (132.5) (19.6) (0.6)
Share of operating profit of associates –––– 2.2
Net interest payable (0.7) (6.5) (11.7) (14.9) (16.7)
Profit / (loss) on ordinary activities before tax (450.4) (733.9) (33.0) 63.7 105.6
Tax on profit / (loss) on ordinary activities (53.3) (20.3) (10.7) (28.8) (36.0)
Profit / (loss) on ordinary activities after tax (503.7) (754.2) (43.7) 34.9 69.6
Loss from discontinued operation n/a n/a n/a (9.7) –
Minority interests (3.3) (0.8) (2.4) (0.6) (3.0)
Profit / (loss) for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders (507.0) (755.0) (46.1) 24.6 66.6
Closing number of employees 25,059 23,097 19,749 19,695 21,340
Turnover growth from continuing operations 21% (15%) (6%) (2%) 11%
Adjusted operating margin 
2
10.3% 6.5% 6.6% 5.9% 6.6%
Adjusted basic earnings per share 
3, 4
18.8p 9.3p 8.2p 6.4p 7.6p
Dividends per share 
3, 5
5.01p 5.10p 5.31p
1
Under UK GAAP , the results of the discontinued operation are presented as a component of each line item in the profit and loss account. Under IFRS, the post-tax loss of the discontinued operation is shown as a single
line item entitled ‘Loss from discontinued operation’. Revenue from the discontinued operation in 2003 was £11.5 million (2002: £12.3 million, 2001: £12.2 million).
2
Under UK GAAP , the adjusted operating margin is from continuing operations before goodwill amortisation, restructuring and other exceptional items. Under IFRS, the adjusted operating margin is from continuing
operations and before exceptional items and amortisation of those intangible assets initially recognised at fair value in a business combination. In 2005, adjusted operating profit was £121.7 million, which was before
amortisation of £1.0 million (2004: £nil) relating to excluded intangible assets.
3
Earnings per share and dividends per share have been restated for the bonus element of the rights issue that took place in November 2005.
4
Adjusted basic earnings per share under UK GAAP represents basic earnings per share from continuing operations before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items. Adjusted basic earnings per share under IFRS is
defined in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
5
Dividends per share are presented according to the financial year to which they relate rather than the basis of recognition for accounting purposes. Dividends prior to the year ended 31 December 2003 are not presented
because, due to the merger of Logica and CMG and the two group’s differing financial year ends, it is not possible to present dividends per share for the combined LogicaCMG group.
Revenue by market sector
Financial services
2005 £295.6m (16.1%)
2004 £259.2m (15.6%)
Telecoms (incl. telecoms products)
2005 £371.1m (20.3%)
2004 £365.3m (22.0%)
Energy and utilities
2005 £352.9m (19.2%)
2004 £264.2m (15.9%)
Industry, distribution and transport
2005 £343.2m (18.7%)
2004 £325.9m (19.7%)
Public sector
2005 £471.3m (25.7%)
2004 £443.8m (26.8%)
2005
£1,834.1 million
2004
£1,658.4 million P2 Chairman’s statement  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chairman’s statement
Improving market conditions, increased
scale and a broader geographic footprint
should enable the LogicaCMG group to
make further progress in 2006.
”
“ LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Chairman’s statement  P3
The gradual recovery in the market for IT
services continued through 2005. It was
characterised by sustained volume increases
accompanied by a growing demand for more
efficient delivery models. Following our
acquisitions of Edinfor and Unilog, we enter
2006 with greater scale and a much stronger
European platform. 
In the first half of 2005, financial markets
remained cautious about the depth and
sustainability of the market recovery. LogicaCMG
was also one of the first companies in its sector
to begin the transition to International Financial
Reporting Standards and it took some time for
market commentators to become familiar with
the new form of presentation, including restated
comparatives and a heavier second half profits
weighting. Consequently, share price progression
was held back until the interim results and the
subsequent announcement of the Unilog
transaction. The shares ended the year up some
5 per cent and on a rising trend. Since late
2005, there has been a marked improvement in
the sentiment towards technology stocks, and
particularly software and services companies,
which has been reflected in significantly higher
volumes of shares being traded.
It is encouraging to note that the dilutive effect of
the rights issue to fund the Unilog acquisition
was reversed within a month, underlining the
positive response we have had to this important
strategic move.
The full year results overall were in line with our
guidance throughout the year and delivered
adjusted earnings per share* of 7.6 pence
(2004: 6.4 pence). The board has declared a
final dividend of 3.2 pence which, when added
to the interim dividend of 2.1 pence, gives a
full year dividend increase of 4 per cent once
the bonus element of the rights issue is taken
into consideration.
Governance and the board
The structure of the board has changed to
reflect the significance of the Unilog acquisition
and its importance to the future performance of
the group. Gérard Philippot, the former Executive
President of Unilog, has joined the LogicaCMG
board as a non-executive director. Didier
Herrmann, formerly Executive Vice President of
Unilog, has also joined the LogicaCMG board in
an executive capacity, responsible for our
businesses in France, Germany and Switzerland.
During the year, we spent considerable time
consulting with shareholders on the best ways to
incentivise our directors and senior management
going forward. Details of the results are provided
elsewhere in this document and in the letter from
me that accompanies the notice of our Annual
General Meeting. My letter and the notice set out
our proposals to introduce new share plans
subject to approval by the members at that
meeting. Our objectives have been to balance
the needs of our business with current best
practice in corporate governance, whilst
ensuring that our executive team is retained and
suitably incentivised.
Outlook
We expect market trends for IT services in 2006
to be similar to 2005. Increasing demand and
more appetite for value, efficiency and risk
mitigation in our major markets will generate
further organic revenue growth. The telecoms
products business will continue to balance some
decline in the more mature technologies with
growth in emerging technologies and markets. 
The combination of improving market conditions,
increased scale and a broader geographic
footprint should enable the LogicaCMG group to
make further progress in 2006, in line with
current market expectations.
Cor Stutterheim
Chairman
* Adjusted earnings per share is defined on page 57. P4 Chief executive’s review  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chief executive’s review
Overall, 2005 was a good year for
LogicaCMG. We delivered a significant
improvement in profitability, order intake was
strong and we accelerated the pace of the
revenue growth we established in 2004. We
also took two significant strategic steps
forward in 2005, with the acquisitions of
Edinfor and, most importantly, Unilog. Both
these acquisitions have helped us build the
scale we need to take advantage of improving
market conditions and our customers’ desire
to do business with a smaller number of larger
suppliers who can provide them with a
broader range of offerings and who can
support them internationally. 
With Edinfor we have shown that we can win
a very substantial outsourcing contract against
the biggest and the best international
competition. With Unilog we have significantly
increased our scale and geographical balance.
These two acquisitions enable us to shape our
future much better in a consolidating market.
Today, LogicaCMG employs around 30,000
employees in 36 countries. We have an
extensive international network with a
particularly strong presence in the UK, France
and the Netherlands. 
With the market for IT services continuing to
improve, the solid groundwork that we laid
following the merger of Logica and CMG at
the end of 2002 is now delivering widespread
benefits. We have always had a clear vision
for our future. We aim to create a worldwide
top ten player in IT services with a balanced
market sector profile, a powerful global
delivery capability and with 30 to 40 per cent
of group revenues derived from value-based
outsourcing. In 2005, we made excellent
progress towards achieving these goals. 
Year of achievement
Despite difficult conditions in some European
territories, we grew our revenues in most of
our major markets and we continued to
improve our profitability.  
Our UK business performed well. Outsourcing
led the way in the UK, as elsewhere, with
major contracts won from the Ministry of
Defence, Transport for London and Thames
Water. The Netherlands continued to achieve
good revenue growth with Financial Services
performing particularly strongly.
In France we completed our programme to
cut overheads at our existing French business
and focused on the better targeting of our
pre-sales efforts. This has enabled us to
benefit from the improving market
environment. The German market remained
difficult for LogicaCMG in 2005. However, the
enhanced scale and strengthened consulting
and systems integration skills resulting from
the acquisition of Unilog put us in a better
position to improve the operating performance
of our business in Germany. In Iberia, Edinfor
made a significant contribution, despite only
formally joining the group in late April last year.  
In 2005, we moved our telecoms products
business back into profit, buoyed by demand
for messaging products, with operators
undertaking significant upgrades to Internet-
based capabilities and increasing demand for
additional capacity, particularly from operators
in developing countries.   LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Chief executive’s review  P5
Outperforming in outsourcing 
Outsourcing remains one of our most
important growth areas. The markets in which
we operate are consolidating and becoming
more international. There is a noticeable trend
towards larger, more complex deals being
awarded to a smaller number of larger
suppliers who have access to a more
comprehensive set of offerings.
In 2005, we combined our worldwide service
units to create an integrated global service
delivery organisation (GSD) able to deliver a
full range of outsourcing and business process
solutions and services to our customers.
Through our ‘blended sourcing model’ we
provide our customers with the optimal
combination of onsite, onshore, nearshore 
and offshore resources, offering them a
seamless service across the geographies in
which they operate. 
Our service centres in territories such as India,
the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Wales (where
we opened a new centre near Bridgend) and
Portugal provide our customers with a full
range of onshore, nearshore and offshore
application development, applications and
infrastructure management, product
engineering and, increasingly, business
process outsourcing. We continue to develop
our presence in India where we now have over
2,000 staff and aim to grow this to around
3,000 by the year end. 
Strategic developments
In September 2005 we announced our
intention to purchase Unilog, a top five IT
services company in France. This £630 million
transaction successfully closed at the
beginning of 2006 with around 97% of
shareholders accepting our offer during the
tender period. France now becomes our third
major profit and revenue generator in Europe,
complementing our already strong positions in
the UK and the Netherlands, improving our
geographical balance and giving us increased
global scale to win even bigger contracts.
Unilog has a long track record of success
and, like LogicaCMG, employs highly talented
people with deep industry knowledge and a
strong commitment to delivery. We are
pleased to welcome our new colleagues from
Unilog into our group. 
Through Unilog we have improved our access
to a wide range of blue chip French
customers including EdF, France Telecom and
BNP Paribas. As a combined group we can
now provide these clients with global support
through LogicaCMG’s range of industry
competencies, repeatable solutions and high
quality nearshore and offshore facilities. P6 Chief executive’s review  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
The acquisitions of Edinfor
and, most importantly, Unilog [...]
have helped us build the scale we
need to take advantage of
improving market conditions and
our customers’ desire to do
business with a smaller number
of larger suppliers who can
provide them with a broader
range of offerings and who can
support them internationally. 
”
“ LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Chief executive’s review  P7
The acquisition of Unilog followed the
completion in April last year of our acquisition
of a controlling interest in Edinfor, the IT
business of Energias de Portugal (EDP), and
the signing of a €510 million ten-year
outsourcing contract with EDP. Not only does
the addition of Edinfor give us a strong
presence in the Iberian peninsula, but it also
enhances our position in the important energy
and utilities sector and increases both our
SAP and our global delivery capability. 
The addition of Edinfor and Unilog significantly
strengthens our position on the continent.
Today, LogicaCMG is a leading European
player in IT services with a strong international
network. Through Unilog, we now employ
more people in France than in any other
territory and our German operations have
doubled in size. We have excellent
opportunities to cross-sell capabilities across
the enlarged business. The increasing size
and international nature of our operations
means that we can offer our employees an
even wider range of exciting career
opportunities. We also have the scale and
international reach to win the big deals large
multinationals are bringing to the market. 
Focus on integration
Our experience gained from integrating Logica
and CMG has been applied to both the
integration of Edinfor - now substantially
complete - and Unilog. The basic principles
behind our integration approach at Unilog is to
take the best from both companies and to
create, as soon as is practical, one company
with a shared culture and single set systems.
This work is currently in progress across all
the territories affected by the transaction. 
I would particularly like to welcome a number
of Unilog’s top executives to LogicaCMG’s
executive committee. Didier Herrmann has
joined the executive committee (and also the
main LogicaCMG board) as executive vice-
president with responsibility for France,
Germany and Switzerland. Aydin Azernour is
chief executive of IT Services in Paris while
Patrick Guimbal is chief executive of Unilog
Management in France, Germany and
Switzerland and is head of our worldwide
consulting board. 
“Releasing your potential”
Through the merger of Logica and CMG at the
end of 2002 and the addition of Unilog and
Edinfor, we have not only significantly grown
our international scale but we have also
broadened and strengthened our range of
services and solutions. Against a background
of fluctuating markets, we have delivered a
consistent strategy focused on meeting our
longer term objectives. 
Given our increasing scale, we undertook a
review of our market positioning in the second
half of last year. This review confirmed what
we already knew about the strengths of
LogicaCMG. Our differentiation lies in our
deep industry and technical expertise, our
strong delivery skills and the long-term nature
of our relationships. We employ hard-working,
committed people with excellent domain
knowledge.
As an enlarged and stronger business, we
want our brand identity to better reflect our
position in the market and our ability to enable
change for our customers. This is
encapsulated in our new strapline - “Releasing
your potential” - which we will roll out both
internally and externally in 2006. 
Looking ahead
The outlook for LogicaCMG in 2006 is
promising. We will continue to improve the
underlying operational performance of all our
businesses. A major priority for 2006 is to
successfully integrate LogicaCMG and Unilog.
Good progress has already been made.
Outsourcing remains an important growth
area for us and we will continue to leverage
our global service delivery capabilities across
the business to give us competitive edge. The
addition of Unilog’s leading consulting
business, Unilog Management, enhances 
our worldwide consulting profile and we
intend to further strengthen this capability in
the year ahead. 
Following the acquisition of Unilog and Edinfor,
LogicaCMG is in a stronger position to
compete for, and win, larger contracts. We are
well placed as the IT services industry matures
and the trend towards consolidation intensifies. 
Martin Read
Group chief executive P8 Business overview  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Business overview
Financial services
Our financial services business had an
excellent year in 2005. A major contributor
to its strong growth was a rise in longer-
term contracts for applications
management, testing and outsourcing,
reflecting our ability to secure work of a
higher strategic value to clients.
The best performers were the UK, the Middle
East and, most impressively, the Netherlands,
which recorded double-digit growth.
The market
In 2005 the financial services market was
dominated by two major drivers. Firstly, financial
institutions had to increase or divert spending to
address the impact of major regulatory changes
facing the insurance and banking sectors. At the
same time our customers moved their focus
from cost cutting to starting new projects to
improve customer service, capture market share
and deliver revenue growth.
As most European banks come to the end of
their Basel II and anti-money laundering (AML)
programmes, they have to contend with further
major market reforms, such as the Single Euro
Payments Area (SEPA) and Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive (MiFID). These reforms
have an impact on their processes,
infrastructures and, most importantly, on their
customers. Outside Europe many countries are
only now starting to implement Basel II and AML
and their equivalent reforms in payments and
securities are yet to be finalised. The insurance
sector is also braced for its own versions of
these regulations. Against this background, there
are a number of exciting opportunities for our
financial services business.
Our strengths
Our combination of strong technological know-
how and specific banking and insurance
domain skills has given us an excellent
reputation for delivering innovative solutions in
financial services. By coupling this expertise
with our leading outsourcing services,
LogicaCMG is able to respond effectively to
this dynamic market environment.
Our consultancy capability means customers are
increasingly coming to us to solve complex
business problems. For instance, we are playing
a leading role in helping our customers to
prepare for the implications of SEPA and MiFID
and also to better understand how this changing
environment might generate new business
opportunities. We continue to export our
expertise in Basel II and AML, helping us to build
strong relationships with some of the world's
leading financial institutions. 
The LogicaCMG difference
We are a good partner for our financial services
customers, offering them a geographical reach
that meets their demands for global servicing.
We have over 30 years of domain expertise and
we are at the forefront of delivering innovative
financial services solutions. 
Our ‘blended service’ model, which provides
customers with the most suitable mix of
onshore, nearshore and offshore services,
gives us competitive advantage. This means
we can deliver efficient services that provide
the optimal business outcome for our
customers. Testament to our excellent delivery
capability came from Aon who, only 12 months
into a 10-year outsourcing deal, returned to us
to extend the contract. 
Successes
2005 saw a string of important wins and
strategic successes for our financial 
services business. 
We secured a £25 million applications
management contract with the investment
banking arm of a major European bank, beating
competition from European and Indian
companies. Our reputation was also enhanced
by Aon awarding us global Gold Partner status. 
Our balanced sector approach across the group
allows us to transfer relevant expertise from one
sector to another. For instance, our financial
services card experience, combined with our
strength in biometric technology, forms a central
part of our e-Identity offer.
The year ahead
Business transformation will continue to be our
customers’ focus in the year ahead, with
companies coming to us for help in formulating a
strategic response to the competitive and
regulatory environment in their efforts to improve
performance as well as customer service.
Our managed testing approach will be a major
growth area, as customers demand end-to-end
testing services. We’ve already won several
significant contracts that provide cheaper, more
effective testing, while ensuring the solution is
tailored for the particular business requirement.
Furthermore, the addition of Unilog and its close
relationships with many of the biggest names in
the French financial services industry, promises
to open up a number of exciting opportunities.
Telecoms
In the midst of extraordinary industry
change, our telecoms business performed
well: the telecoms products business
(formerly wireless networks*) grew its
orders, revenue and profitability in 2005.
The telecoms solutions business also
increased orders and secured a number 
of strategic deals such as the $60 million
win at Natrindo in Asia, leaving it well
positioned for further revenue growth 
in 2006. 
There are substantial opportunities 
for companies like LogicaCMG to help
their customers adapt to the changes 
that are transforming the
telecommunications industry.
The market
The market is in a period of unprecedented
flux: business models, technologies and the
key market players are all undergoing
significant change.
At the same time, consumer attitudes have
changed: broadband connections are
outstripping dial up, digital music downloads are
outselling CDs and more people are abandoning
fixed lines in their homes in favour of mobile
handsets. In response, communication service
providers are investing heavily in reshaping
themselves as multi-access players focused on
selling bundles of services to businesses and
consumers. The trend for consolidation is
continuing and, as content services drive
increased data revenues, large Internet brands,
like Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft are diversifying
their market presence.
Our strengths
We deliver services which support our
customers’ three major areas of investment:
broadband networks, broadband services and
capital expenditure projects focused on
delivering long-term cost savings.
In a time of great uncertainty for network
operators and service providers, we are a
reliable partner. We have a powerful track
record reflected in our work with over 300  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Business overview  P9
operators around the world serving over 800
million consumers. 
As leaders in personalised messaging, content
delivery and payment systems, we have
implemented over 100 next generation
messaging systems, delivered mobile browsing
to almost 200 million consumers and deployed
over 150 payments systems globally.
LogicaCMG also implemented the world’s first
3G IP-based messaging solutions and
commercial videomail deployments. 
The LogicaCMG difference
We have the experience, domain knowledge and
technical skills to add value to our customers’
businesses through new or existing technology.
We were first to market with the concept of the
‘Personal Service Portal’ – a map of services
desired by the individual user, which reflects the
trend of consumer demand for easily accessible
and personalised data. 
We are already successfully rolling out
components of the Personal Service Portal such
as our Intelligent Charger solution. This is a
payment solution that, for the first time, gives
communication service providers a
comprehensive retail offer by allowing powerful
user profiling and delivering targeted offers 
in real time.
Other pioneering work includes our music
recognition solution to drive new services
revenues for our customers, our SMART
customer care solution to reduce customer
churn and speed browsing to increase mobile
internet access. Further examples of our
visionary work include intuitive messaging to
enable messaging regardless of device, and our
‘uOne’ suite of products for voice-mail, video-
mail and video portal applications. 
Successes
Our product portfolio is deployed by leading
network operators and service providers around
the globe including Vodafone, Cingular, America
Movil, Maxis, Celcom, TIM, Orascom, Telefonica
and 02.
In the content space, we won the contract to
produce an end-to-end content management
solution for Optus Australia, including search and
digital rights management (DRM). 
Through our voicemail solutions work 
for TimeWarner and continuing regulatory
compliance work with BT, we also performed
strongly in the non-mobile sector. Operational
support services in the US and a $60 million,
four-year deal with Natrindo Telepon Seluler 
of Indonesia further expanded our
geographical spread.
The year ahead
We approach the new financial year with
confidence. With the Russian mobile market set
to become the biggest in Europe, and with two
of its leading operators as our customers, we
expect further success for our newly opened
Moscow office. 
We anticipate significant wins for our products
portfolio, especially Intuitive Messaging, uOne
Videomail and Video portals, SMART Customer
Care and Intelligent Charger. We will also
continue to pilot compelling and creative
solutions – like sophisticated advertising on
mobile devices linked to video  – providing the
innovative edge our customers require to
maintain their leadership positions. 
* The business previously reported as wireless networks 
will henceforth be referred to as telecoms products,
reflecting that many of its customers and prospects in a
converging market are fixed line and cable operators, not
just wireless companies.
Energy and utilities
Following a strong order intake in 2004,
revenues from our energy and utilities
division improved in most countries,
particularly in Australia, Belgium, France
and Germany during 2005. Overall,
revenues were up 33.6 per cent in the year
– with the successful acquisition of Edinfor,
the IT services business of Energias de
Portugal (EDP), accounting for 27.6 per cent
of the increase.
With some impressive wins during 2005, a
strong set of propositions aligned to
customer needs and a series of compelling
new solutions in areas like smart metering
and oil & gas, the forthcoming year should
show further progress. 
The market
Increasing gas and oil prices and a need to
further invest in infrastructure and exploration,
create perennial pressure for our customers to
reduce costs and increase efficiency. Together
with increasing regulatory changes (both industry
and financial) and the need for improved physical
and digital security, these areas present a
number of opportunities for LogicaCMG. Our
own research showed that by the middle of
2005, 50 per cent of UK companies were still
not compliant with the European Emissions
Trading Scheme, which sets targets for reducing
carbon dioxide emissions. 
The continuing trend for mergers and
acquisitions across the energy and utilities
sector is producing global energy companies
with widely dispersed asset bases and different
fuel mixes. This creates an increasing demand
for real time network information and improved
risk management.
Our strengths
In 2005 we won significant new business in all
our traditional areas of strength:
• IT and business process outsourcing
• designing, building and operating central
energy market infrastructures
• implementing SAP software
• greenhouse gas emissions systems
• managing human resources and 
physical assets. 
We have reinforced our skills base, primarily
through the acquisition of Edinfor, which has
brought valuable SAP IS-U experience. As part
of Energias de Portugal, Edinfor was responsible
for one of the world’s largest implementations of
SAP’s utilities-specific solution. Edinfor also has
strong credentials in geospatial information
systems that allow companies to map and
monitor infrastructure such as electricity
transmission cables and gas pipelines.
The LogicaCMG difference
Our customers choose us for our combination of
industry experience, technical expertise and
strategic vision and they rely on us to implement
the technical solutions they need to meet their
strategic objectives.
For example, through our work in mobile asset
management and smart metering, we are
increasingly delivering solutions that transform
businesses  – cutting costs, improving efficiency
and helping our customers to offer enhanced
levels of service to consumers. For Dalkia in
France we have delivered a mobile workforce
system that is supporting several thousand field
staff across Europe.
Successes
2005 saw LogicaCMG win a number of major
strategic deals. For example, in June we signed
a £22 million seven year IT outsourcing deal with
Thames Water to support their billing and
income services operation with Dwr Cymru P10 Business overview  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Welsh Water. The work will be delivered from our
outsourcing centre in Wales, which already
services Welsh Water, Thomsonfly, Ofcom and
the British Council. This deal was just one of
many that saw our percentage of energy and
utilities income generated by outsourcing rise to
over 20 per cent.
In the Czech Republic, we were instrumental in
the successful launch of the National Registry of
Emissions Allowances this year. Similarly, we
established and now operate the gas electricity
certificate registry for the Queensland State
Government in Australia, and are also supporting
the emissions registry in Italy.
Another notable success was Ford’s choice 
of our flagship emissions solutions 
‘Emissions logic’, which is helping them 
manage their carbon emissions in 54 sites
across two continents. 
The year ahead
Our oil and gas business exceeded its growth
target in 2005. We expect further gains this year,
particularly since we have expanded our
business with Shell, who confirmed our status as
a strategic supplier.
As energy prices continue to rise and regulation
becomes tougher, companies will increasingly
have to implement strategies to ensure greater
energy efficiency. As a result, we expect an
increase in demand for our new smart metering
services that allow real time measurement of
customer energy use, leading to more accurate
billing, improved cash flow and less
administration, particularly account regularisation. 
We continue to innovate, for example, with our
Instant Energy pay as you go service. The
solution, which uses SMS based technology to
replace prepay cards for energy use, won the
‘Social Contribution Award’ this year at the
British Computer Society awards.
Industry, distribution
and transport
The industry, distribution and transport
(IDT) market improved across the globe
during 2005, with our transport division
experiencing a significant increase in
orders in the year.
Many of the technologies that have been
piloted successfully with IDT clients – like
radio frequency identification (RFID),
biometrics and wireless – have also
demonstrated their value in other areas of
the group and will support stronger growth
in 2006. 
The market
As our customers’ markets improve, they are
increasing their investment in innovative
solutions, such as the use of wireless
technology, to increase efficiency of their
business processes.
Security is also a vital and growing 
concern for our customers and one we 
seek to address through our biometrics and 
e-Identity capabilities.
The increasing involvement of the private sector
in public transport is stimulating demand for our
services. The demand from travellers for better
service means transport providers are turning
towards technology companies who have the
capabilities to help them drive up service levels
and efficiency. For example, by helping train
operators and airlines to keep better track of
their assets through RFID, LogicaCMG is
enabling them to operate more efficiently and
provide their customers with more accurate
travel information.
Our strengths
We have had a successful year and continue to
innovate in our core areas of expertise. HR
management and business process outsourcing
(BPO) are recognised strengths for us in the IDT
area. In 2005 we secured new deals with a
number of customers including Transport for
London (TfL), and George Wimpey.
LogicaCMG’s experience in enterprise asset
management has helped our customers manage
and optimise their manufacturing operations and
supply chains, improving efficiency and cutting
unnecessary stock holding.
Our work with machine-to-machine technology
is helping our customers monitor the state of
their assets remotely and in real time. Using
wireless and RFID technology, we have
enabled our customers to achieve reductions
of between 20 and 35 per cent in total cost of
ownership of assets by managing product
lifecycle costs optimally.
The LogicaCMG difference
Our reputation in IDT is based on 20 years of
experience in the automotive, manufacturing,
pharmaceutical and transport industries, with us
often operating at the core of our clients’
business - in the plant, onboard trains and
planes and through our contribution to air traffic
control systems.
Through our pioneering activity in new
technologies and strong track record, our
customers look to us to help them optimise 
their processes. 
Successes
In 2005 we secured an £18 million IT
outsourcing contract with Metronet Rail to
transform its IT network and desktop
applications for its 5,000 employees.
Our shared service centre approach has also
paid dividends in HR and payroll management,
with wins in the UK, the Netherlands, the Czech
Republic and in France.
In addition to these wins we have completed
some impressive projects through our innovative
use of technology. These include: 
• mobile traffic services, which provide real time
traffic information based on mobile phone data
• condition monitoring, which uses wireless
technology to monitor the status of fuel tanks
in Dutch buses and the temperature of wheels
on Norwegian high-speed trains
• facial recognition technology to identify
shoplifters in a shopping centre
• using RFID in a hospital to help monitor 
and schedule operations by ensuring the
requisite equipment and information is 
available and accessible.
The year ahead
We anticipate continued growth in the transport
sector. Developments in road pricing will play off
our strengths in satellite based services - such
as Galileo (the European replacement for GPS),
our mobile messaging systems and global
payment, clearing and billing capabilities.
The acquisition of Unilog is significant for IDT,
doubling our presence in Germany and giving us
access to Unilog’s impressive blue chip
customer base in France. It positions us in the
Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG) & Retail and
Pharmaceutical sector and also places us
among the top three systems integrators in
Europe in the Manufacturing Execution Systems
(MES) field.
With the ongoing improvement in the global
economy, LogicaCMG’s IDT customers are
investing in new technology to ensure innovative
business transformation. Sound domain
expertise and strong systems integration skills
are one of our differentiating capabilities in the
IDT market, putting LogicaCMG in a very
competitive position for 2006 and beyond.
Public sector
With a high proportion of outsourcing deals
and some significant contract awards, our
public sector business met expectations
despite only modest growth in public sector
IT spend.
The market LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Business overview  P11
Internationally, public service reform is focused
on establishing citizen-centred, efficient, and
cost-effective services. The trend is towards
encouraging standardisation and sharing across
government departments via shared services
and business process outsourcing. This
transformational approach to sharing back-and
front-line services across government provides
an opportunity for us to demonstrate our
expertise. We are helping government
departments to address some of the inherent
challenges that arise from this trend of working
together to agree best practice, processes,
objectives and joint procurements.
Our strengths
Areas of particular strength are space, justice
and health, where we delivered a number of
ground-breaking solutions this year.
Evidence of the long lasting value we deliver to
customers came when COMPASS, our
partnership with the Crown Prosecution Service
for England and Wales, was awarded the
highest-rated ‘green’ status in a government
review. Through the COMPASS programme’s
focus on IT -enabled business change, the CPS
leads the modernisation drive in the criminal
justice system.
We helped to successfully launch the IT
infrastructure for the University College London
Hospitals NHS Trust, which enables
appointments and medical notes to be linked
to a single computer-based patient record.
This was a key achievement for the National
Health Service.
In the Netherlands, our strong track record of
enabling change for our government customers
was reflected in the extension of our major long
term contracts with the ministries of Defence,
Justice, and Traffic and Transport.
The LogicaCMG difference
Our approach is increasingly seen as
supportive of public sector objectives,
particularly cross-agency shared services and
business process outsourcing.
Our Framework Agreement with the UK’s HM
Treasury for payroll services to 57 public sector
agencies and similar services to police
authorities, including pay and pensions for the
Metropolitan Police Authority, is noteworthy. Our
framework contract with the Scottish Executive
for systems integration is significant in expanding
our involvement with devolved administrations
in the UK in support of these objectives. 
Successes
During 2005 we won new business in all areas
of the public sector, including local government.
Major new contracts were signed in Australia
with the Queensland government and Brisbane
City Council for their electronic document and
records management systems. In New South
Wales, the Hunter New England Health Authority
awarded us another contract to deliver phase
two of its patient delivery scheduling system. 
In the Netherlands, we secured a government
electronic ordering and invoicing tender to allow
six ministries to procure goods and services
electronically and we rolled out mobile traffic
services across two Dutch provinces.
In early 2006 we also won a contract to
reengineer the HR IT system of the French
armed police, following a change in
government policy.
There were also a number of project wins for
space and defence within the European Space
Agency’s Europe-wide Galileo programme,
including the application of Galileo in the location
based services environment. Additionally, we
were awarded the contract (as part of the ATLAS
consortium) for the UK's Ministry of Defence’s
(MoD) Defence Information Infrastructure (Future)
project, where we are delivering security,
applications migration and training. The £2.3
billion contract is the first tranche of a ten-year
project that is potentially the largest and most
significant IT programme in the MoD’s history.
During 2005, we delivered the critical service,
operations and support software which enabled
the Paradigm Secure Communications-led
Skynet 5 Private Finance Initiative programme to
meet the first and most challenging milestone on
time. This significantly changed the way that long
haul communications services are delivered to
the UK armed services.
The year ahead
The UK public sector is likely to show
conservative growth in IT spend in the year
ahead. However, a number of key opportunities
are emerging and some major contracts will go
out to tender including e-Borders and ID Cards.
Our prospects are supported by our pioneering
work on biometrics and e-identity.
Our public sector business in the Netherlands
continues to strengthen and we maintained our
position as a top 3 IT services provider to the
Dutch government. Given 2006 is a pre-election
year in the Netherlands, we expect the demand
for IT solutions to intensify as the government
seeks to meet their implementation milestones. 
Our successes and track record of delivery in the
public sector, combined with our strengthened
consulting, shared service and outsourcing
capabilities, leave our public sector business well
placed to grow in the year ahead.
Global service delivery
Delivering timely, cost-effective IT and
business process outsourcing services
Outsourcing is a key strategic business tool. It
enables organisations to adapt rapidly to change
and to divest themselves of non-core functions,
while generating competitive advantage.
LogicaCMG delivers a full range of IT
outsourcing and business process solutions and
services through our global service delivery
organisation (GSD).
Central to GSD’s success is our ‘blended
sourcing’ model – which mixes onsite, onshore,
nearshore and offshore resources to deliver
services to our customers at the right cost,
quality, performance, security and risk. To do
this, we identify and employ key capabilities at
the most efficient cost in shared service centres.
Distributed globally, these hubs of LogicaCMG
staff and infrastructure serve our customers –
giving them round-the-clock service across
multiple time zones. Critically the ‘blended
sourcing’ model uses people, process and
technology to deliver an integrated service locally
to our customers.
A full service
Our global service delivery capabilities include:
• unmatched skills – we have teams of 
highly skilled professionals specialising in every
aspect of Information Technology Outsourcing
(ITO) and Business Process Outsourcing (BPO)
• global coverage – our fully-integrated network
of shared service centres and infrastructure
means we can serve customers continuously
and dependably – wherever their business is
located and whenever they need us
• certainty – we use standard and robust
methodologies, tools, processes and platforms
to ensure high productivity, managed risk,
reliability and consistency
• quality service – our work is underpinned by a
single universal best practice governance
model to ensure consistent quality
• domain knowledge – using our broad range of
commercial and public sector expertise, we
have the industry specific and sector
knowledge necessary to deliver the right
service to our customers across the globe
• dedicated account management – all
relationships and delivery are managed locally
by dedicated senior managers
• a powerful track record – our outsourcing
capabilities have been proven time and again,
delivering huge benefits to our clients 
• the right balance – ‘blended sourcing’ offers
flexible and cost-effective services using a
tailored mix of capabilities. P12 Financial review  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Financial review
Overview
The gradual recovery in the market for IT
services continued through 2005. The key
drivers for our customers in generating growth
and value remained cost control, risk
management and process improvement.
The increased demand for IT services is causing
labour markets to tighten. The ability to deploy
resources on a global basis is now a key factor
in fulfilling the needs of customers. In this
climate, we have been recruiting in all of our
operations, focusing on in-demand skills and
new graduates, while our nearshore and offshore
facilities continue to grow rapidly. 
Order intake in the first half of 2005 was
exceptionally strong including our largest ever
order, for Energias de Portugal (EDP), and a high
concentration of other outsourcing contracts.
The balance in the second half was more
towards professional services work, to the more
immediate benefit of operating margins. The full
year book to bill ratio of 1.27:1 was significantly
higher than the previous year (1.13:1). 
Revenues of £1,834.1 million were up 10.6% 
of which 5.3% was organic. The adjusted
operating margin was 6.6%, up from 5.9% last
year. For the year ended 31 December 2005,
the profit before tax was £105.6 million
compared with £63.7 million last year. We
undertook a review of property assets across 
the group, crystallising embedded gains on
some and providing for onerous leases on
others. The net impact of these actions was an
expense of £0.6 million and is separately
identified within operating profit as exceptional
items. Basic earnings per share from continuing
operations were 7.4 pence (2004: 4.1 pence).
Adjusted basic earnings per share were 
7.6 pence (2004: 6.4 pence). 
IT services revenues in reported currency grew
by 11.1% over the corresponding period last
year, and 4.9% on an organic basis, driven by
the performances in the UK and the
Netherlands. Outsourcing represented 30% of IT
services revenues compared to 27% in 2004.
In the UK, high utilisation rates, effective use of
offshore resources and lower materials revenues
contributed to higher second half margins as
expected. The Netherlands had a strong second
half, benefiting from higher utilisation rates and a
stabilisation in the use of contractors. 
Our existing French business has benefited from
the improving market environment and
completed its previously planned rationalisation.
Germany remained difficult, although revenues
were stable in the second half compared to the
first half. In Iberia, the Edinfor business continued
to develop well through the second half.
Our telecoms products business continued to
see good demand for its messaging products
with further significant upgrades to Internet-
based working and additional capacity for
operators in developing countries. Newer
technologies have still to attain consistent,
demand-driven growth, but investment by
operators is increasing around areas such as IP
voicemail, content management and delivery,
and intelligent payments, allowing some revenue
growth and further operating margin expansion
in the second half.
Overall staffing levels grew to 21,340 at 31
December, with the largest growth in our global
delivery centres and net headcount in our key
European operations stable.
Order intake in the first half of 2005 was
exceptionally strong including our largest
ever order, for Energias de Portugal (EDP)
”
“ LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Financial review  P13
* Operating profit and margin figures asterisked in the financial review are from continuing operations and, where applicable, before exceptional items and amortisation of those intangible
assets initially recognised at fair value in a business combination.
Review of IT services operations
United Kingdom
The United Kingdom business grew revenues
by 5% in 2005 and maintained strong
operating margins. At 11.3%*, this was down
slightly from the 2004 levels as expected and
was impacted by the higher level of material
revenues in the first half. 
The strong margin improvement in the
second half reflected the return to normal
levels of material revenues, good utilisation of
our staff and a strengthening in professional
services revenues. 
The UK is the most competitive market in
Europe and the most advanced in offshore
maturity. The key to LogicaCMG’s sustained
margins has been the progressive remixing of
the skills base and the location of those skills as
part of a blended onshore, nearshore and
offshore delivery model. Within the UK, overall
staffing levels are stable. However, a growing
proportion is located in our delivery hub in South
Wales. Recruitment locally is focused on sector
specific domain knowledge and programme and
change management led consulting skills.
Meanwhile, we currently have more than 1,000
people in India working on UK-based business. 
The public sector was stable following several
years of very high growth. Within this sector,
space & defence had a strong second half,
partly due to the ramp up on the Atlas
programme for the Defence Information
Infrastructure. We secured additional sub-
contract revenues from the National Health
Service programme during the year and contract
extensions from existing customers such as the
Crown Prosecution Service, Medical research
Council and the Health & Safety Executive were
an important part of the mix. Looking forward,
the Government Shared Services strategy is
creating new opportunities in both central and
local government.
Strong growth of 33% in industry, distribution &
transport was driven primarily by the transport
sector where professional services increased
and a number of new outsourcing contracts
were signed, of which Transport for London was
the largest.
Growth in energy & utilities was relatively muted
with much of the business generated from
existing long-term contracts. The second half
was impacted by lower materials revenue. The
rise in prices of raw materials has impacted
some budgets at the energy providers and
increased the focus on outsourcing and offshore 
delivery. Our drive into the automated metering
market with innovative new solutions suffered
some slippage as a result, but pilots are now
underway and tender opportunities are in
the pipeline.
Financial services continued its recovery with
revenues up 17%. Demand for professional
services improved steadily through the year,
while our major outsourcing contract with global
insurance broker, Aon, was extended further.
This account, together with another major win at
Legal & General, demonstrate clearly how
customers are increasingly balancing the desire
for cost reduction with the need to improve
service levels. 
Telecommunications had a much better second
half despite the continued challenge of cost
reduction targets in our major accounts. The
order book at the end of 2005 was also
substantially improved. It also began to build a
business in the media sector, including a
consultancy project for the BBC. P14 Financial review  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
FY 05 % growth % growth
Revenue by market sector £’m year-on-year % share H2-on-H1
Public sector 329.5 0.5 46.3 (4.0)
Industry, distribution and transport 121.2 33.0 17.0 18.0
Energy and utilities 147.8 3.1 20.8 (37.0)
Financial services 64.2 16.5 9.0 5.1
Telecommunications 49.3 (20.2) 6.9 2.9
Total 712.0 4.8 100.0 (7.6)
H1 05 H2 05 FY 05 FY 04
Operating margin* 9.4% 13.3% 11.3% 11.6%
United Kingdom
FY 05 % growth % growth
Revenue by market sector £’m year-on-year % share H2-on-H1
Public sector 111.7 15.2 27.3 8.0
Industry, distribution and transport 98.7 3.0 24.1 16.4
Energy and utilities 46.0 (5.2) 11.2 (18.2)
Financial services 127.9 25.4 31.2 3.0
Telecommunications 25.3 2.4 6.2 5.7
Total 409.6 11.3 100.0 4.9
H1 05 H2 05 FY 05 FY 04
Operating margin* 6.4% 12.0% 9.3% 9.5%
Netherlands
FY 05 % growth % growth
Revenue by market sector £’m year-on-year % share H2-on-H1
Public sector 0.4 (50.0) 0.5 (100.0)
Industry, distribution and transport 33.6 (14.1) 42.7 (1.2)
Energy and utilities 11.7 (24.5) 14.8 (27.9)
Financial services 29.4 3.5 37.3 5.6
Telecommunications 3.7 (54.3) 4.7 64.3
Total 78.8 (14.3) 100.0 (2.0)
H1 05 H2 05 FY 05 FY 04
Operating margin* (14.6)% (15.4)% (15.0)% (16.1)%
Germany
FY 05 % growth % growth
Revenue by market sector £’m year-on-year % share H2-on-H1
Public sector 8.4 27.3 7.2 27.0
Industry, distribution and transport 65.2 (2.5) 55.8 4.4
Energy and utilities 3.7 85.0 3.2 (39.1)
Financial services 30.3 2.7 26.0 6.1
Telecommunications 9.1 2.2 7.8 (18.0)
Total 116.7 2.5 100.0 2.6
H1 05 H2 05 FY 05 FY 04
Operating margin* (6.4)% (2.0)% (4.2)% (3.4)%
France
* Operating margin figures asterisked in the tables above are from continuing operations and, where applicable, before exceptional items and amortisation of those intangible assets initially
recognised at fair value in a business combination. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Financial review  P15
The Netherlands
The Dutch business continued to grow strongly
in the second half. On a full year basis, revenues
were up 11%. As expected, the operating
margin in the second half improved significantly
with better utilisation of its own staff and the
number of contractors stabilising. Tight labour
markets and growing demand for highly skilled
consultants and project managers make it
difficult to bring down the absolute number of
contractors in the short term and have
necessitated investment in innovative recruitment
programmes and master-classes. At the same
time, we are encouraging customers to move
more of their standardised work to our nearshore
and offshore facilities, under the close
supervision of local programme managers.
The public sector performed well with both
revenues and orders growing. Government
renewal is a central theme in the Dutch economy
with IT as an important enabler. Areas of
particular success in 2005 for LogicaCMG
included public safety and security, healthcare,
internal affairs, infrastructure and space. Large
SAP-based projects at the ministries of Defence
and Traffic & Transport continued to progress
successfully, while we won significant software
development projects from the Dutch Tax &
Customs Authority (for cash collection) and the
Council for the Judiciary. Outsourcing is
becoming a more prevalent delivery model with
shared service centres seen as a way to reduce
administrative costs. Examples here included
electronic procurement and an enterprise
content management system, both for seven
ministries. At the Centre for Work and Income
(CWI) we have implemented a SAP-based
HR/Payroll system. We also leveraged our UK-
based heritage to secure a number of contracts
related to the Galileo satellite programme.
Recovery in the industry, distribution & transport
sector gained further momentum, notably in the
transport and logistics arena, as customers
sought to address globalisation in their markets
by reducing direct costs and achieving greater
flexibility in their staffing, including outsourcing of
some processes. Wins at DSM and Hagemeyer
in the first half were joined by a major HR/Payroll
contract with PCM Uitgevers, the third-largest
newspaper and magazine publisher in the
Netherlands. This sector also benefited from its
share of the Middle East project to design and
implement a national identity card scheme
based on biometrics, for which the Netherlands
is our centre of excellence. 
Energy & utilities declined somewhat, although
we are leveraging our strong positioning with the
top four energy suppliers and the market
operator to apply more of our international
expertise. Compliance, for instance, is a growing
issue where we have a strong track record
across multiple sectors. At the same time,
recognising that this sector is consolidating
internationally, we have begun to develop
business with a wider range of clients. While
many multinational companies are well advanced
in their plans to use offshore resources for some
application management, the volatility of the
regulatory environment has generally led to a
relatively low appetite for offshore services to
date across the sector as a whole. Supporting
the transition to fully unbundled energy supply
and retailing scheduled for 1 January 2008 will
continue to drive the demand for operational
efficiency and thereby our services.
In financial services, we continue to benefit from
our market leadership position and from a good
match between our areas of expertise and
current customer priorities. These include risk
and compliance, payments, channel
management (including voice and Internet
integration) and test management services.
Outsourcing, including access to offshore
resource, is a growing factor but one where
banks and insurers are careful to balance the
pursuit of cost efficiencies with access to proven
knowledge of specialised processes. This has
enabled us to extend our business with major
customers such as ABN AMRO and ING both
locally and on an international basis. 
Telecommunications revenues improved
somewhat even though the size of the available
local market continued to contract as a result of
international consolidation amongst the
operators and the high penetration of long-term
outsourced arrangements. We are concentrating
increasingly on providing specific and innovative
solutions on a project basis to maximise our
return. In particular, we are well-positioned to
meet the demand for converged services (voice,
data and video) that exploit internet protocol (IP)
working. We have used nearshore resources on
one contract this year and believe our blended
delivery model will be important to maintaining
our position in this very competitive marketplace.
Germany
Revenues stabilised in the second half but efforts
to recruit more skilled staff were impeded to a
degree by uncertainty around the Unilog
transaction. Second half losses were similar to
those in the first half, worse than our
expectation. Losses are concentrated in the
‘industrial middle market’ where significant
pricing pressure remains except for areas of high
level industry consulting or specialised sector
skills. Improving this area is the prime focus for
the Unilog integration process. 
Performance in outsourcing was satisfactory with
important renewals and extensions won with
Inbev and SWB. A new contract was signed
with Atlanta Group, a worldwide trader of fresh
fruit and vegetables, headquartered in Bremen.
Financial services revenues grew 4%. The
traditional strength in risk and compliance,
including the company's SAMBA product
portfolio, remained a key driver and it is now
making greater headway with application
management and outsourcing. During the year, it
secured its first major contract with an
international bank to both take over part of their
business process and progressively to deploy
offshore resource on the service delivery.
Planned mergers in the sector will inevitably drive
greater interest in such business models, so this
is a valuable reference in building our credentials.
France
The improving market conditions in France
coupled with completion of our own
rationalisation enabled growth to be restored in
professional services, up 3% year-on-year. 
Strong growth in the energy & utilities sector
was driven by a major new account, Dalkia,
where we are implementing a mobile
workforce application, and increased business
from EDF in Bordeaux. Performance in
financial services was up slightly as decline at
ABN AMRO was offset by increased business
with Credit Agricole. Public sector business
grew some 27% largely as a result of two
major contracts with La Gendarmerie
Nationale and Ministère des Sport. Industry,
distribution & transport had to compensate for
an expected decrease in business from HP by
consolidating positions at Auchan and Casino
in the retail sector and revenues from the
Eurocopter project won in 2004.  P16 Financial review  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
FY 05
+
H1 05
+
Revenue by market sector £’m £’m % share
Public sector 4.1 1.2 4.7
Industry, distribution and transport 2.9 - 3.3
Energy and utilities 72.9 16.9 82.8
Financial services 3.7 1.3 4.2
Telecommunications 4.4 0.9 5.0
Total 88.0 20.3 100.0
H1 05
+
H2 05
+
FY 05
+
Operating margin* 7.9% 7.8% 7.8%
Iberia (Edinfor)
FY 05 % growth % growth
Revenue by market sector £’m year-on-year % share H2-on-H1
Public sector 2.7 (12.9) 4.5 25.0
Industry, distribution and transport 6.8 (42.9) 11.3 34.5
Energy and utilities 16.7 22.8 27.7 1.2
Financial services 19.4 (17.4) 32.1 (28.3)
Telecommunications 14.7 (16.9) 24.4 16.2
Total 60.3 (13.6) 100.0 (2.3)
H1 05 H2 05 FY 05 FY 04
Operating margin* (2.6)% (18.5)% (10.4)% 3.0%
Other mainland Europe operations
FY 05 % growth % growth
Revenue by market sector £’m year-on-year % share H2-on-H1
Public sector 14.5 72.6 12.7 10.1
Industry, distribution and transport 14.8 (29.9) 13.0 (27.9)
Energy and utilities 54.1 31.3 47.4 21.7
Financial services 20.7 - 18.2 68.8
Telecommunications 9.9 45.6 8.7 (35.0)
Total 114.0 16.1 100.0 12.7
H1 05 H2 05 FY 05 FY 04
Operating margin* 1.3% 8.1% 4.9% 2.4%
Rest of World operations
* Operating margin figures asterisked in the tables above are from continuing operations and, where applicable, before exceptional items and amortisation of those intangible assets initially
recognised at fair value in a business combination.
+
Numbers are based on consolidation from 20 April 2005. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Financial review  P17
Some progress has been made in raising the
value-added element in the French business in
areas such as mobile workforce and in
HR/payroll outsourcing which are projected to
enjoy double-digit growth across all sectors in
the years ahead. These are valuable assets to
take into the Unilog integration: but with nearly
70% of our French business still in time and
materials work, the merger with Unilog offers
by far the best route to improved utilisation
and performance for this business, as well as
better job satisfaction and career development
for our people.
Iberia (Edinfor)
In the period since acquisition in late April,
Edinfor has achieved or in some cases
exceeded the targets set in our business plan.
The transition phase of the outsource contract
with EDP is progressing well and a key
objective for 2006 is to consolidate and
develop the relationship further, including
implementation of the Advanced Metering
Infrastructure programme. 
Business development elsewhere has
progressed well. In the broader energy &
utilities market, Edinfor has redeveloped its
UBS Utilities Customer Care & Billing system in
the Oracle ERP suite following 10 years
experience of operating systems for
municipalities. We believe this to be an effective
alternative to SAP for the small-to-medium
sized players. Together with LogicaCMG’s
unrivalled industry knowledge, it will form part
of the thrust into the Spanish market.
Public sector remains small, but with some
promising opportunities, particularly around e-
Identity technology. The process of acquiring
Edinfor enabled the company to establish
contacts with senior Government officials
which have been maintained. Financial services
is also relatively small and Edinfor is seeking to
build on its evolving position at the insurer
MAPFRE in Spain.
The largest single contract outside of EDP during
the year was won at ONI in the
telecommunication sector where an outsourcing
agreement gives access to key innovation
programmes, as well as business processes that
use the Edinfor printing and finishing
competence centre. This provides an excellent
reference for growth in the sector. Evaluation
continues of opportunities for entering the
industry, distribution & transport arena,
concentrating initially on leveraging the
company’s SAP skills and track record.
Staff numbers grew to 1,366 at the year end as
opportunities were identified, the favourable
publicity around the acquisition having created a
positive recruitment environment.
Other mainland Europe operations
This region posted a significant loss in 2005 of
£6.3 million. While continued losses were
expected in the Nordic & Baltics and Belgian
operations, the Central & Eastern European
business suffered from a number of difficult
projects which are now substantially closed.
The underlying Czech and Slovak based
business performed reasonably well in a market
which is experiencing greater competition with
the entry of more overseas players and where
ownership of an increasing proportion of local
assets is moving out of the countries. Public
sector business is still in the early stages of
development and revenue decline this year
reflects primarily the timing of new business
given strong improvement in the order book in
the second half. In industry, distribution &
transport, small initial assignments were
secured with new customers such as Czech
Airlines, Czech Airports, Siemens, Rexam and
Pilsner Urquell, to set alongside continuing
revenues from major SAP-related projects such
as the Prague Transport Company and
Lasselsberger. The company also won its first
major SAP payroll outsourcing contract with
Motorpal, which is an important milestone in
the development of this specialty. Revenues
were stable in energy & utilities with new wins
at the Prague gas and electricity companies
among others. Financial services revenues
declined with the ending of a number of major
projects, while telecommunications was broadly
flat against a backdrop of disruptive
consolidation in both sectors.
In Belgium the best performances was in energy
& utilities where the major project with Electrabel
was extended during the year. Public sector,
financial services and telecommunications were
stable. Headcount was up at the end of the year
and we are continuing to recruit in the light of the
stronger platform for 2006 when the business is
expected to be profitable. 
Rest of World operations
The Rest of World operations as a whole grew
revenues and profits in 2005. Australia delivered
very strong revenue growth and improved its
margin through good utilisation of professional
staff while benefiting from previous actions to
reduce overheads. The strongest growth was in
the public sector driven by work on electronic
health records and document management in
New South Wales and Queensland. Energy &
utilities also performed well with the Integral
Energy outsource contract ramping up to full
capacity together with a project on retail and
network separation for TXU Energy.
Telecommunications grew moderately with work
on content management for Optus being of
particular note. 
The group’s Asian operations had a good 
year culminating with the signing in December
of its largest ever order with PT Natrindo
Telepon Seluler (NTS), a mobile telecoms
operator in Indonesia. The contract, to be
implemented over a four-year period, requires
LogicaCMG to design, build and operate the
Service Platform Network (SPN) as well as IT
and Business Support Systems (BSS).
LogicaCMG will also deliver programme
management, system integration and managed
services for the solutions. 
Growth in energy & utilities was largely driven by
programmes for Shell. Financial services was
broadly stable with application management
wins at Bank of Baroda, IndusInd Bank and ING
Vysya Bank, and payments-related contracts at
Union Bank of India, Oriental Bank of Commerce
and Bank of Baroda. 
In the Middle East, the project to provide 
a biometrics-based smart ID card system for
one of the nations is progressing well and
more recently the opportunity has arisen to
propose a similar system to another
government in the region on which a decision
is awaited. In the second half of the year, we
secured a contract from the National Bank of
Iran to implement a national payments
infrastructure including Real Time Gross
Settlement, securities settlement and cheque
clearing. We are working with a trusted partner
for local support and maintenance.  P18 Financial review  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
* Operating margin figures asterisked above are from continuing operations and, where applicable, before exceptional items and amortisation of those intangible assets initially recognised at
fair value in a business combination.
EMEA Asia Pacific Americas Total
%%%%
Product area £’m change £’m change £’m change £’m change
Messaging (SMS) 80.6 4.4 28.5 (18.1) 44.9 21.0 154.0 3.3
Multimedia / Internet 24.3 (4.3) 4.8 20.0 7.4 72.1 36.5 8.3
Unified comms 8.7 11.5 3.8 8.6 6.2 87.9 18.7 28.1
Payment / billing 24.0 43.7 15.7 (10.8) 5.8 3.6 45.5 14.0
Total 137.6 8.3 52.8 (11.9) 64.3 27.8 254.7 7.3
H1 05 H2 05 FY 05 FY 04
Operating margin* 1.0% 9.4% 5.5% (0.7)%
Telecoms products
The North American operations delivered a small
profit for the year despite continued pricing
pressure in the automotive sector. Energy and
utilities revenues, the largest single component,
were broadly stable. Subsequent to the year
end, we announced an agreement to acquire
the operations and certain assets of Worksuite
LLC, a member company of Severn Trent Plc,
based in Houston, Texas. Worksuite has
provided work management, scheduling and
mobile computing solutions to the utilities
industry for over 20 years and has a substantial
customer base of some 50 North American
utilities. The combination of the two companies
will generate a number of exciting new solutions
and the result will be the leading integrated work
and asset management solution for the energy
and utilities industry. 
Review of telecoms products operations
Telecoms products continued the improvement
seen in the first half with help from the normal
seasonal demand for capacity upgrades ahead
of Christmas and New Year. For the year as a
whole, revenues were up 7.3% and the margin
improved to 5.5%*. Revenue decline in Asia
Pacific largely reflects continued reduction in
Japan which mostly comprises maintenance on
legacy systems. Some price erosion in the
mature products was mitigated by reductions in
hardware costs through greater commonality of
platform and the move to open source operating
software (LINUX).
Existing customers of LogicaCMG’s SMS text
messaging systems continued to upgrade to
the next generation offering. This both
prepares them for implementation of higher
bandwidths capable of delivering a wider
range of customer services, and helps to
reduce operating costs by enabling the use of
more standardised Internet technology. 
The company has also been helping operators
to get a better understanding of their customers’
behaviour through deployment of business
analysis tools. These enable proper
segmentation and targeting of service offerings,
as well as more effective customer care, a major
factor in reducing churn.
Growth in multimedia messaging (MMS)
continues to be limited and mostly driven by
machine to person traffic such as advertising.
LogicaCMG is working with operators to make
person-to-person multimedia messaging an
easier and more satisfying user experience, but
has recognised for some time that MMS is only
one part of a broader requirement for systems
that can deliver a variety of content to users,
including text, pictures, ring-tones, web pages,
video, email and instant messaging.
Our uOne product portfolio is beginning to
gain traction both by replacing old voicemail
systems with ones based on Internet (IP)
technology, and by providing videomail and
video portal facilities. Optimus in Portugal and
Hutchison 3G Austria were notable customers
in the second half of the year. This offering is
applicable to fixed line and cable companies
as well as mobile operators.
In November, we formally launched our
Intelligent Charger product into the mobile
payments market as successful field trials at
Vodafone Greece continued. This product
addresses a very real operator requirement
which to date has proved elusive. It enables
both pre and post paid payment methods on
one phone with full management of credit and
loyalty bonuses, and allows group accounts with
separation of business and private usage.
During the year, the company established its
content and media business unit more formally
to drive forward the opportunities arising from
the convergence of fixed, mobile and
broadcast media. At the same time, it has
progressively been moving from a business
with a collection of product offerings to one
with a coherent set of customer propositions.
This includes a more modular and consistent
approach to product development as legacy
systems are replaced, and integration of third
party offerings where appropriate. 
Unilog acquisition and related re-financing
Completion of the acquisition of Unilog took
place on 13 January 2006 following the
successful public tender offer. The interest in
Unilog will only be consolidated from this date
and therefore had no direct impact on 2005
operational results. The group’s share of the
post-tax profits of Unilog as an associate for
the period from 25 October to 31 December
was £2.3 million and is shown within a
separate line item below operating profit. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Financial review  P19
The group’s finances were restructured during
the second half in light of the Unilog
acquisition cost. £388.7 million, net of
expenses, was raised through a fully
underwritten 1 for 2 rights issue. The £330
million revolving credit facility due to expire in
2009 was replaced by a similar facility due to
expire in 2010. In addition, a concurrent five-
year term loan of €348 million was agreed.
The financing of the Unilog transaction
increased the group’s net interest expense by
£0.5 million in 2005. The principal constituents
of this were the accelerated amortisation of the
set-up fees associated with the previous
revolving credit facility and the term loan
interest cost, partially offset by interest
received on the rights issue proceeds. 
The rights issue resulted in the issuance of
375.5 million new ordinary shares at a
discounted price of 107 pence per share. 
The weighted average number of shares used
for earnings per share purposes of 898.7
million reflects the bonus element within the
rights issue.
Accounting matters
Following the results of the most recent
triennial actuarial valuation of the CMG UK
Pension Scheme, which was completed in
December 2005, the deficit on the scheme as
at 31 December 2004 has been revised from
£43.9 million to £65.4 million. The scheme
deficit as previously reported was based on a
roll-forward of the defined benefit obligation
from the formal actuarial valuation of the
scheme as at 1 July 2002 using estimation
techniques, as permitted under IFRS.
The most recent actuarial valuation has shown
that the use of estimation techniques
understated the defined benefit obligation at
31 December 2004 compared to a
comprehensive member-by-member
assessment of the defined benefit obligation.
As a consequence of the materiality of the
adjustment, 2004 comparative information has
been amended, together with the associated
deferred tax effect. The deficit on the scheme
as at 31 December 2003 remains unaffected
by this revision. Discussions are underway with
the trustees of the CMG UK Pension Scheme
to agree a funding plan that will seek to
accelerate a reduction in the scheme’s deficit.
The balance sheet classification of the
convertible bonds has changed to a current
liability on adoption of IFRS. Under IFRS, a
liability is classified as current when an entity
does not have an unconditional right to defer
settlement of a liability for at least twelve
months after the balance sheet. The
convertible bonds can be converted at the
option of bond holders at any time up until 5
September 2008 and therefore they have been
classified as a current liability. The change in
classification does not reflect any change in
the underlying terms of the bonds, which
would still fall to be redeemed in cash on 19
September 2008 if conversion into ordinary
shares of the company had not occurred prior
to this date.
Cash flow and debt
Cash generated from operations was £167.0
million. The net cash inflow from trading
operations was £180.8 million, giving a cash
conversion of 149% (2004: 122%). 
Group net debt at 31 December 2005 was
£96.1 million, compared to £219.2 million at 
1 January 2005. The reduction reflects the
unutilised portion of the rights issue proceeds
at the year end, which was used on 13
January 2006 in payment for the Unilog shares
tendered during the public offer. Following
completion of the Unilog acquisition, net debt
was approximately £330 million. Excluding the
impact of the Unilog transaction and the rights
issue, year end net debt was £231.0 million
reflecting the strong operating cash
performance and the impact of the property
sale and leaseback transactions that
generated £8.3 million of cash.
Dividend
The interim 2005 and prior dividends have been
restated to reflect the bonus element of the
rights issue. Accordingly, the dividends in
respect of the year ended 31 December 2004 of
5.8 pence per share have been restated to 5.10
pence per share for comparative purposes.
The directors have proposed a final dividend of
3.2 pence per share to be paid on 18 May
2006 to shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 21 April 2006. The final
dividend of 3.2 pence per share together with
the restated interim dividend of 2.11 pence per
share brings dividends paid and proposed
relating to 2005 to a total of 5.31 pence per
share, representing a 4% increase over the
previous year on the restated basis. 
Seamus Keating
Chief financial officer P20 Directors’ and management biographies  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
LogicaCMG plc board members
Cor Stutterheim (59)#
Non-executive chairman
Cor was appointed non-executive chairman of
LogicaCMG in December 2002. He was
previously chairman of CMG for seven years.
Cor joined CMG in the Netherlands in 1970 as a
systems and programming consultant and held
various management positions before being
appointed to the board in 1977. He became
deputy chairman in January 1995 and was
appointed chairman in August 1995. Cor retired
from his non-executive director position at Polar
Capital Partners Ltd on the 1st January 2006.
He remains a member of the board of directors
of Koninklijke Wegener NV and a member of the
advisory board of GIMV-ICT.
Martin Read (56)+*
Group chief executive
Martin joined Logica plc in 1993 as chief
executive and became group chief executive of
LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica and
CMG in December 2002. Prior to 1993, he was
supervisory managing director of the GEC
Marconi Radar and Control Systems group of
companies. Martin has been a non-executive
director of Boots Group plc since 1999 and of
British Airways plc since 2000. He was a non-
executive director of ASDA Group plc from 1996
to 1999.
Helmut Mamsch (61)#
Deputy chairman and senior independent
non-executive director
Helmut became a non-executive director of
LogicaCMG in December 2002, having been a
non-executive director of Logica since 1997. He
is the senior independent non-executive director
and deputy chairman. He is also a non-executive
director of GKN plc and SAPPI Limited. Helmut
is a former non-executive director of RMC Group
plc and a former member of the board of
management of VEBA AG (now E.ON AG) and
was concurrently, since 1998, chairman of VEBA
Electronics Inc, St Clara/USA and MEMC
Electronic Materials Inc, St Peters/USA.
Previously he was chairman of Stinnes AG.
Didier Herrmann (55)+*
Executive vice president – 
France, Germany and Switzerland
On 10 January 2006, Didier Herrmann was
appointed executive vice president of the
LogicaCMG group and executive director of
the board, responsible for France, Germany
and Switzerland. Didier has been a member 
of the Unilog board since 1992. He became
head of international business in 2004 and
vice-president of Unilog in June 2005. On 
1 March 2006, Didier Herrmann became
president of the Unilog S.A. executive board.
Seamus Keating (42)+*
Chief financial officer
Seamus was appointed chief financial officer and
a member of the LogicaCMG board in
December 2002, having been Logica chief
financial officer since February that year and
director of group finance since 1999. He joined
Logica from Getronics, where he was finance
director of Olivetti Solutions, immediately prior to
its purchase by Wang (in turn purchased by
Getronics). Prior to that appointment, he was
finance director of Olivetti’s UK operations,
having joined its finance function in 1989.
Jim McKenna (50)+*
Chief operating officer
Jim was appointed chief operating officer in
January 2005. He has been a member of the
LogicaCMG board since December 2002,
having been an executive director of Logica plc
since 1998. Jim was also Chief Executive for
LogicaCMG in the UK and Ireland and was
previously responsible for Logica in continental
Europe, Asia Pacific and the Middle East. He
formerly worked for GEC-Marconi and also
Plessey Company plc. He is a non-executive
director of AWG plc. 
Wim Dik (67)#
Wim was appointed a non-executive director of
LogicaCMG in December 2002, having been a
non-executive director of CMG since May 2001.
He is a professor at the Technical University Delft
in the Technology and Management Faculty.
Previously he was chairman and CEO of
Koninklijke KPN NV , Royal Dutch Telecom. Prior
to that, he was chairman and CEO of Royal PTT
Nederland (telecom and post), chairman of
Unilever’s Dutch operations and Minister for
Foreign Trade in the Dutch Government (1981-
82). He holds non-executive positions with
Unilever NV , Unilever plc, Casema Holding BV ,
AVIVA plc, Tele Atlas NV and is an adviser to
Spencer Stuart Limited. Wim is a Grand Officer
in the Dutch order of Oranje Nassau and a
Commander in the Swedish order of the 
North Star.
Angela Knight (55)#
Chairman, remuneration committee
Angela became a non-executive director of
LogicaCMG in December 2002, having been a
non-executive director of Logica since July
1999. She is currently chief executive of the
Association of Private Client Investment
Managers and Stockbrokers (APCIMS). She is
also deputy chairman of Scottish Widows and a
non-executive director of Lloyds TSB plc and
International Financial Services London (IFSL)
and a trust member of the Port of London
Authority. Angela was previously the Member 
of Parliament for Erewash (1992–97) and
Economic Secretary to HM Treasury between
1995 and 1997.
George Loudon (63)#
George was appointed a non-executive director
of LogicaCMG in December 2002, having
previously been a non-executive director of CMG
since 1998. He is currently Chairman of Altius
Associates LTD and Pall Mall Capital LTD, as well
as holding a number of non-executive positions.
From 1988 until 1992 he was a director of
Midland Bank plc and then Chairman and Chief
Executive of Midland Montagu, having previously
spent 12 years with Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank
NV , latterly as a member of the managing board.
Roger Payne (57)#
Chairman, audit committee
Roger, a chartered certified accountant (FCCA),
became a non-executive director of LogicaCMG
in September 2004 and was appointed chairman
of the audit committee at the same time. In
September 2005 he retired from his position as
finance director of Rentokil Initial PLC, a UK listed
FTSE 100 company with a turnover in excess of
£2.4 billion and operating in more than 40
countries. He had been with the company for 18
years and prior to that held senior financial and
general management positions in other leading
service sector companies. 
Gérard Philippot (63)#
Gérard was appointed a non-executive director
of LogicaCMG in October 2005. He was
president of Unilog from 1992 and was the
driving force behind Unilog rising from the 23rd
to the 4th largest French IT service company
between 1992 and 2005. Graduating from Ecole
Polytechnique in 1962, Gérard began his career
as an engineer with the organisation consultancy
CGO (Compagnie Générale d’Organisation). In
1968, he teamed up with four former colleagues
to establish the Unilog group. Gérard was
appointed a member of the Management Board
of Unilog in 1983 and president of Unilog
Industrie and Unilog Multi-Systèmes in 1987. He
has recently been appointed to the supervisory
board of Amboise Investissement SCA.
+Executive director 
* Executive committee member 
#Non-executive director LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Directors’ and management biographies  P21
Aydin Azernour (50)
Chief executive, IT services – Paris
Aydin was appointed a member of the executive
committee of LogicaCMG and chief executive of
IT services – Paris, in January 2006. He joined
Unilog in 1985 and, in 1998, was appointed a
member of the Unilog executive committee in
charge of engineering activities in the industry
sector. Appointed a member of the Unilog
management board in 2000, Aydin established
and developed the Unilog Start-up Valley, an
organisation intended to host and develop
innovative projects.
John Coleman (58)
Chief executive, international
John was appointed chief executive international
and a member of the executive committee of
LogicaCMG in June 2003, having previously
been managing director of the UK telecoms
division. He joined Logica in 1982, holding a
variety of sales, line management and senior
positions, before moving to the USA to run the
West Coast operation. John briefly managed the
UK government team in 1993, before then
moving into telecoms, including two years as
telecoms international line of business director
from 2000 to 2002.
Patrick Guimbal (50)
Chief executive, consulting – France,
Germany and Switzerland
On 10 January 2006, Patrick Guimbal was
appointed as a member of the executive
committee of LogicaCMG and chief executive of
consulting – France, Germany and Switzerland.
Patrick is chief executive of Unilog management,
the Unilog subsidiary for consulting activities in
France and Germany. Patrick joined Unilog in
1997 having previously been an executive
committee member at Bossard, a European
management consulting company.
Thomas Ivarson (51)
Group sales and marketing director
Thomas was appointed executive vice president
wireless networks (now telecoms products) and
a member of the executive committee of
LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica and
CMG in December 2002. In October 2003 he
became group sales and marketing director.
Thomas joined CMG in October 2001 as chief
executive of CMG wireless data solutions.
Between 1995 and 2001 he was CEO and
president of the EHPT Group. Previously he
worked for 15 years with Ericsson. Thomas was
a non-executive director of Intec Telecom
Systems plc from 2003 to 2005.
Chris McDermott (48)
Chief executive, LogicaCMG telecoms
Chris was appointed chief executive, wireless
networks (now telecoms products), and an
executive committee member of LogicaCMG in
December 2002. Chris joined Logica in May
2001 as supervisory managing director
responsible for Logica’s business across Asia
Pacific and was later appointed supervisory
managing director for Logica’s mobile networks’
division. Prior to that, he was vice president and
general manager of the worldwide public sector
business at Unisys, having previously run their
worldwide commercial and European telecoms
business. Before Unisys, Chris worked for Nortel
and GEC Avionics.
Nigel Perks (47)
Group HR director
Nigel was appointed group HR director and a
member of the executive committee of
LogicaCMG in March 2004, having been
corporate HR director since September 2001.
Prior to joining the company, Nigel was a board
member and European HR director of Equifax
PLC. Nigel previously held a variety of senior
international HR roles with Prudential and Digital
Equipment Co. (DEC).
Paul Schuyt (48)
Chief executive, the Netherlands 
Paul was appointed chief executive, the
Netherlands in February 2003 and a member of
the executive committee of LogicaCMG in April
2004. Having worked for PTT Post (now TPG)
Paul joined CMG as a management consultant
in 1987. He held various management positions
in the telecoms and public sector markets prior
to his being appointed country director CMG
Benelux in 2002.
Reinoud Drenth (42)
Chief executive, Rest of Europe
Reinoud was appointed chief executive,
Belgium, Central and Eastern Europe, France,
Nordics and Baltics, and a member of the
executive committee in January 2005. Prior to
this appointment, he was managing director for
outsourcing and HRM Payroll in the Netherlands.
In October 2002, Reinoud joined Logica
Netherlands as chief executive and was COO of
LogicaCMG Netherlands from January 2003 until
June 2003 with primary responsibility for the
LogicaCMG merger integration in the
Netherlands. Reinoud joined Logica from
Diebold Inc. where he was a corporate officer
from 1996 until October 2002. He was head of
worldwide marketing from 1996 until October
1997 and managing director of their EMEA
business thereafter. Reinoud previously held a
variety of senior international roles with NCR
Corporation where he joined in 1997. He also
worked for Philips.
Nick Caplan (46)
Chief executive, International lines 
of business 
Nick was appointed a member of the executive
committee of LogicaCMG in January 2005. He
joined LogicaCMG in May 2003 as managing
director international financial services. Previous
experience has included interim chief executive
of two software houses where he was
responsible for turning the businesses around.
Prior to this, Nick was head of CSC’s European
financial services consultancy, systems
integration and outsourcing and prior to that as
operations director of JIB, an organisation
providing insurance and risk advisory services to
businesses around the world.
Guy Warren (46)
Chief executive, UK
Guy was appointed chief executive of
LogicaCMG UK and a member of the executive
committee in January 2005. He joined
LogicaCMG in 2002 as the managing director of
the financial services business in the UK. Guy
has also held the role of UK sales and marketing
director during the early part of the integration of
Logica and CMG in 2003. He joined LogicaCMG
from Unisys where he was vice president of
banking for Europe. Guy has a strong
background in IT.
Executive committee members P22 Report of the directors  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Report of the directors
The directors present their report together with
the financial statements of the company and its
subsidiaries, for the year ended 31 December
2005. These will be laid before shareholders at
the annual general meeting (AGM) to be held on
17 May 2006.
Principal activities
Throughout the year group companies, including
branches, were in the business of providing
information technology services, concentrating
on:
• the marketing, design, production, integration
and maintenance of custom-built software
and associated hardware systems
• consultancy, applications management and
project management in the field of information
technology
• the design, development, implementation and
marketing of software products and the
reusable elements of applications software,
called systems kernels
• the outsourcing of information 
technology services.
Results and dividends
Consolidated revenue amounted to £1,834.1
million, compared with £1,658.4 million for the
year ended 31 December 2004. The profit
before tax was £105.6 million compared to
£63.7 million for the year ended 31 December
2004. The profit attributable to equity holders 
of the parent company was £66.6 million,
compared with £24.6 million for the previous
year. Basic earnings per share from continuing
operations were 7.4 pence (2004: 4.1 pence).
Net debt at 31 December 2005 stood at 
£96.1 million (2004: £198.3 million).
The directors are proposing a final dividend of
3.2 pence per share (2004: 3.08 pence per
share) which, when taken with the restated
interim dividend of 2.11 pence per share (2004: 
2.02 pence per share) paid to shareholders on
21 October 2005, will amount to a dividend for
the year of 5.31 pence, on a restated basis. The
interim 2005 and prior dividends have been
restated to reflect the bonus element of the
rights issue that took place in November 2005. 
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 18
May 2006 to eligible shareholders on the register
at close of business on 21 April 2006.
Business review and future prospects
A review of the development of the business
during the year is given on pages 8 to 11.
Further information on the acquisition of interests
in subsidiaries and associates during the year is
provided below. 
On 20 April 2005 the group confirmed that,
following the receipt of clearance from the
European competition authorities, it had
completed the acquisition of a 60 per cent
controlling interest in Edinfor - Sistemas
Informáticos, S.A. a leading Portuguese IT
services provider, for €81 million (£55 million).  
On 19 September 2005 the group announced
that, subject to shareholder and other approvals,
it had conditionally agreed to acquire a 32.3 per
cent interest in Unilog S.A. a leading French IT
services provider listed on Euronext Paris (the
Block Trade) and that it intended to acquire the
remaining 67.7 per cent of the issued share
capital of Unilog by way of a public tender offer
(the Tender Offer). It further announced that the
total consideration of €930 million (£630 million)
for the acquisition would be funded through a
committed term loan facility, a rights issue of up
to 375.5 million new shares and an additional
allotment of shares to partly fund the Block
Trade. On the same date, a prospectus was
sent to shareholders setting out the details of the
proposed acquisition and containing a notice of
an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) called to
approve the acquisition and the rights issue.
At the EGM held on 13 October 2005 the
acquisition and the rights issue were approved
by shareholders. On 7 November 2005 the
company announced that it had procured
subscription for all of the 375.5 million new 
rights issue shares. The Block Trade was
completed on 25 October 2005 and the Tender
Offer closed on 28 December 2005.
Post balance sheet events
On 18 January 2006 the group announced that
completion of the acquisition of Unilog S.A. had
taken place on 13 January 2006 and that it 
now held a 96.6 per cent controlling interest
in Unilog. Additional information is set out on
page 79.
Creditor payment policy and practice
The Companies Act 1985 (Directors’ Report)
(Statement of Payment Practice) Regulations
1997 requires the company to make a statement
of its policy and practice on the payment of
creditors. The company and its subsidiaries seek
the best possible terms from suppliers
appropriate to their businesses and, in placing
orders, give consideration to quality, delivery,
price and the terms of payment which will be
agreed with suppliers when the details of each
transaction are agreed. The company and its
subsidiaries will continue to honour their
contractual and other legal obligations and to
pay creditors on the dates agreed in contract
and purchase orders. At 31 December 2005, the
number of days of annual purchases
represented by year end trade creditors for the
group amounted to 43 days (2004: 40 days).
Research and development
During the year the group invested £31.1 million
(2004: £41.1 million) in research and
development on software products, principally
within the telecoms products business, of which
£5.6 million (2004: £3.4 million) was capitalised. 
Financial instruments
The exposure of the group to financial risks and
the risk management objectives and policies
relating to those risks are set out on pages 62
and 65.
Directors
The directors are listed on page 20.
On 25 October 2005 Gérard Philippot, the
President of Unilog S.A. was appointed as a
non-executive director of the company. On 10
January 2006 Didier Herrmann, the Executive
Vice President of Unilog S.A. was appointed as
an executive director of the company.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the
company are shown in the the remuneration
committee report.
As disclosed in the Prospectus sent to
shareholders on 19 September 2005, Gérard
Philippot and Didier Herrmann both of whom
were shareholders in Unilog S.A. received a
combination of cash and shares in consideration
for the acquisition by the company of their
interests in Unilog S.A.
Other than as referred to above, none of the
directors had a material interest in any contract
of significance to which the parent company or a
subsidiary was a party during the financial year.
At the forthcoming AGM Wim Dik, George
Loudon and Angela Knight will retire and offer
themselves for re-election in accordance with the
Articles of Association. In addition, Gérard
Philippot and Didier Herrmann, both of whom
have been appointed as directors since the last
AGM, offer themselves for election.
Directors’ and officers’ insurance
The company maintains insurance cover for all
directors and officers of group companies
against liabilities which may be incurred by them
while acting as directors and officers.   LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Report of the directors  P23
As at the date of this report indemnities are in
force under which the company has agreed to
indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted
by law and the company’s Articles of
Association, against all costs, charges, losses
and liabilities that they may incur in the execution
of their duties, powers, authorities and
discretions as directors of the company, or any
other company of which, at the request of the
company, they are directors or officers. Copies
of these indemnities are kept at the company’s
registered office and are open for inspection by
any member of the company without charge.
Substantial holdings
At 16 March 2006 the company had been
notified that the following were interested in three
per cent or more of the company’s share capital:
Employment policies
The group operates in a number of countries
and its employment practices vary to meet local
conditions and requirements. In all cases they
are established on the basis of best practice in
that country. There is no discrimination against
people with disabilities who apply to join the
group and anyone within the group with a
disability is awarded the same opportunities for
promotion, training and career development as
other staff. Further details on our employment
policies are included in the corporate social
responsibility statement on pages 24 to 26.
Remuneration committee report
The remuneration committee report is set out on
pages 31 to 38.
Auditors
After due and careful consideration, the directors
recommend the reappointment of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the company’s
auditors. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has
expressed its willingness to continue in office
and therefore a resolution for their reappointment
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Repurchase of company shares
Resolution number 10 in the Notice of the
forthcoming AGM proposes granting the
directors the unconditional and general authority
to make one or more market purchases of the
company’s ordinary shares for the purposes of
Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 on
such terms and in such manner as the directors
shall determine, subject to maximum and
minimum prices which may be paid for each
ordinary share as set out in the resolution.
In addition:
• the maximum aggregate number of shares that
may be purchased pursuant to this authority
shall be limited to 114,679,945 shares, which
is equivalent to 10 per cent of the company’s
issued share capital as at 16 March 2006
• this authority shall remain in force until the
conclusion of the next AGM of the company
but will terminate on the date falling 12 months
from the date that this resolution is passed if
the AGM has not been held by that date
• the company may agree before the above
authority terminates to purchase ordinary
shares where the purchase will or may be
executed after the authority terminates (either
in whole or in part). The company may
complete such a purchase even though the
authority has ended.
Authority to allot securities
Resolution number 11 in the Notice of the
forthcoming AGM proposes the renewal of the
directors’ authority to allot the authorised but as
yet unissued share capital of the company in
accordance with Section 80 of the Companies
Act 1985. This authority which was renewed at
the EGM held on 13 October 2005 expires at
this year’s AGM. The maximum number of
shares subject to such an authority would be
378,443,821, representing approximately 33 per
cent of the company’s total issued share capital
at 16 March 2006. The directors do not have
any present intention of exercising this authority
other than in connection with the group’s
employee share schemes.
Under Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985
equity securities in the company may not be
allotted for cash (other than in respect of an
employee share scheme) without first being
offered pro-rata to existing shareholders, unless
the prior approval of shareholders is given in a
general meeting.
The directors consider that it is in the best
interests of the company that the relevant
authority given at the AGM in 2005 (and
renewed at the 2005 EGM), which expires at the
2006 AGM, should be renewed on similar terms.
Accordingly, a special resolution to this effect is 
proposed as resolution number 12 in the Notice
of the forthcoming AGM.
The proposed authority will expire at the 
2007 AGM and permits the directors, during 
this period, to issue up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £5,733,997 (representing five
per cent of the issued share capital at 
16 March 2006) without first offering them to
existing shareholders.
Articles of Association
Resolution number 13 in the Notice of the
forthcoming AGM proposes the adoption of new
Articles of Association. New Articles of
Association are being proposed to take account
of a number of developments in law and
practice applicable to listed companies since the
current Articles of Association were adopted in
1994. Since the directors are proposing a large
number of changes to the Articles, it is more
appropriate to adopt the proposed New Articles,
than to amend the current Articles. A summary
of the substantive changes is contained in the
circular accompanying the Notice of the
forthcoming AGM.
New Share Plans
In preparation for the loss of the company’s
1996 Executive Share Option Scheme and
Equity Partnership Plan, which will come to the
end of their ten year lives during the next two
years, the company is seeking shareholder
approval, through resolutions 14, 15 and 16 of
the AGM Notice, to introduce three new equity
based incentive arrangements for its executive
directors and senior executives. The main terms
of the proposed new plans are summarised in
the circular.
Political donations and contributions
The company’s policy is not to make any
donations or contributions to political parties or
organisations and no such payments were 
made during the year. Further information about
the company’s policy is set out in the corporate
social responsibility statement on page 26.
Charitable donations
The donations made to charities during the 
year are also set out in the corporate social
responsibility statement on page 26.
By order of the board
P Weaver FCIS
Company secretary
29 March 2006
Name No. of shares %
The Capital Group 109,305,321 9.5
Companies, Inc.
(and its affiliates)
Lloyds TSB Group plc 49,049,026 4.3
(including Scottish 
Widows Investment 
Partnership Limited) 
Legal & General 38,334,884 3.3
Group plc
(and its subsidiaries) P24 Corporate social responsibility statement  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Corporate social responsibility statement
LogicaCMG believes that developing good
standards of corporate responsibility is an
inherent aspect of its business principles. In
doing so, we have established a number of
policies which reflect the company’s ethos 
and attitude towards our employees, customers,
other stakeholders and the community 
in general.
Our employees
Our mission is to help leading organisations
worldwide achieve their business objectives
through the innovative delivery of information
technology and business process solutions. By
helping our customers succeed we, in turn,
enable our company and our people to succeed.
Every member of staff has a part to play in
creating customer satisfaction and employees
are expected and encouraged to contribute to
organisational advancement. We operate a
policy of continual improvement, of both our
business processes and the skills of our people,
to take best advantage of advances in
technology. This safeguards our operations for
the future, ensuring that we will continue to add
value to our customers’ businesses.
We recognise that people are our principal asset
and the foundation of our business. Employee
policies have been designed to meet the needs
of our business, and follow best practice, whilst
complying with local legislation where necessary.
These policies encapsulate our culture and
values which are then reflected in and through
our people.
The company’s ethos - The LogicaCMG Way -
emphasises our core principles of:
• openness, communication and involvement
• equality, fairness, integrity and meritocracy
• professionalism and quality
• personal development and loyalty
• success - for our customers, employees 
and shareholders.
The company recognises the value of good
employee communications within a knowledge-
based business. Two-way communication is an
important source of ideas and information and is
vital to the enhancement and development of
our staff and the company. 
Our managers are accessible to staff at all levels;
communicating with and involving them in the
development of the business. We aim to involve
all employees in decision making processes
wherever practical and they are encouraged to
express opinions and propose solutions in order
that, together we are able to make better
decisions. Decisions should be communicated
openly and the reasoning clearly explained with
the aim of everyone being committed to the
outcome. The role of properly organised works
and staff councils for employee consultation is
recognised and valued. 
The LogicaCMG European Works Council, with
elected employee representatives, is a forum for
dialogue with group employees in Europe. Within
the UK, the Staff Communications Council gives
staff representatives a direct channel to
management to share views and information.
Both councils promote the exchange of views
and information between company and staff 
to extend understanding and help introduce
policy changes.  
The group encourages diversity and employees
include men and women from different nations,
cultures, ethnic groups, generations,
backgrounds, skills and abilities.  All employees
are recognised and rewarded for their effort and
contribution to the company - not on the basis
of grade, status or favour. We believe in being
open at all times, subject to respecting
customer, company and personal confidentiality.
We aim for LogicaCMG to be a company in
which the best people want to join and develop
their careers. Our ethos is intended to support
this aim through attracting, retaining and
releasing the full potential of high-quality people.
Every year our communications and human
resources teams co-ordinate and disseminate an
on-line global staff survey which is translated into
several languages and is accessible to all
employees. The results of the survey are used 
to measure employee job satisfaction and 
gather feedback on aspects of working for
LogicaCMG in order to determine areas and
priorities for actions.  The survey is also used to
assess the effectiveness of internal
communication channels and identify any areas
which may require improvement.
Share ownership
We strongly support employee share ownership
as a way of encouraging employees to
participate in the progress and profitability of the
group. This year, as we have done in past years,
we are launching the LogicaCMG employee
sharesave plans and the Employee Equity
Partnership Plan in many of our global locations.
In our group, recently enlarged with the
acquisition of Unilog S.A. a good percentage of
our employees have options or shares in the
company. In addition, share options have been
awarded to senior managers across the group,
through the Executive Share Option Scheme
and the Executive Equity Partnership Plan.
Fulfilling potential
We recognise that everything we expect to
achieve in business is dependent on the
personal performance of our staff.  It is important
that our people have the skills and knowledge
required to successfully perform within our
markets and that it is vital we have strong,
effective managers to lead the company
productively and profitably. To help develop the
talent required, the company operates a
performance development programme for all
staff and, amongst management, the company
runs a leadership and succession planning
programme. These development programmes
are provided to help employees expand on 
their skills and competencies with the aim of,
where appropriate, developing their careers
within LogicaCMG.
The company’s performance management
system for employees is annually reviewed and
developed. It embraces, amongst others, the
following principles:
• clear and agreed personal objectives
• career pathways that identify key capabilities
and behaviours at different competency levels
across core career paths
• personal development and succession
planning to support training and 
personal growth
• annual appraisals to review progress and
determine pay and promotion.
These programmes are an important foundation
for growing the business and meeting its 
global ambitions.
Health and safety
We aim to ensure a safe and healthy working
environment for all our employees, outside
contractors and visitors, not only on LogicaCMG
premises but also for those staff and contractors
working on client sites. The company complies
with all relevant local legislation or regulations,
and best practice guidelines recommended by
national health and safety authorities. We also
liaise with staff regarding our policies and
practices so that we can continue to develop
work surroundings into a healthy, safe and
overall enjoyable environment. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Corporate social responsibility statement  P25
Due to increasing global security concerns, we
continue to upgrade our policies to ensure our
people are able to operate safely in all countries.
Where appropriate, employees have access to
online information regarding international safety
and security provided by an expert security
company. This security company is also used to
vet travel arrangements and provide safeguards
as required. As well as this, guidance issued by
organisations such as the UK Foreign &
Commonwealth Office is taken into account.
Our business
Ethical conduct
We recognise the obligations we have towards
our staff, shareholders, customers, suppliers,
competitors and the community as a whole. We
believe our reputation, together with the trust
and confidence of those with whom we deal, to
be one of our most valuable assets. In order to
keep this reputation and trust we demand and
maintain the highest ethical standards in carrying
out our business activities.  
All employees are required to abide by our
ethical policy which prohibits all forms of illegal or
immoral behaviour. It can be found on the
company’s website and intranet. The policy
helps to uphold the reputation of our company
and staff, and maintains public confidence.
Staff are encouraged to promptly report any
potentially illegal, improper and/or unethical
conduct that they become aware of at their
workplace or in connection with their work. We
believe we have an environment that enables
staff to raise genuine and legitimate concerns
internally. However, in the event that staff believe
their reporting to line management may result in
harassment, victimisation or undue distress, they
may contact a confidential help-line to report
matters. The help-line provides an opportunity
for concerns to be investigated and for
appropriate action to be taken to ensure that the
matter is resolved effectively.
Customers 
We strongly believe that integrity in dealings with
customers is a prerequisite for a successful and
sustained business relationship.  
We operate a highly effective and efficient
organisation, focused on meeting customer
objectives. Our aim is to provide products and
services which give fair value and consistent
quality, reliability and safety in return for fair
reward. We operate policies of continual
improvement, of both processes and the skills of
our staff, to take best advantage of advances in
technology. This safeguards our operations for
the future, ensuring that we continue to add
value to our customers’ businesses.
To cater for the wide variety of work we do, we
aim for a balance between flexibility in the way
we operate and tight control to meet customer
expectations predictably and repeatedly.
We have clear and strong lines of
communication which allow us to respond
quickly and efficiently to customer and market
requirements, and our customers receive a
consistent service across geographies, industries
and technology areas. Our sales effort and
delivery capability are aligned in order to ensure
that we can successfully and consistently deliver
what we promise.
Business partners and suppliers
As with our relationships with our other
stakeholders, we aim to develop relationships
and improve networking with business partners
and suppliers based on mutual trust. We believe
one of our major strengths is our approach to
alliances and partnerships with customers. Many
of our new contracts come through these
alliances and our partners’ contributions help us
to deliver the solutions required by our
customers and the market.
The company’s alliance management
programme is key to understanding evolving
strategies, teaming together on integrated
solutions with a strong emphasis on innovation,
execution, and collaboration. Our global strategic
alliances have been strengthened, particularly
our relationships with technology market leaders
SAP , Microsoft, IBM and HP , but also with
Oracle and Cisco. The value to the business has
been reflected in significant joint-contract wins,
taking advantage of LogicaCMG’s new global
service delivery capabilities.
Our clients appreciate the ability to offer, through
partnership, the best combination of state-of-
the-art technology and world class products,
strong customer relations and deep industry
knowledge and experience, combined with the
capacity to implement and deliver value-added,
mission-critical, repeatable global solutions on
time and within budget.
Community
LogicaCMG’s chief contribution to local
communities is through our staff. With nearly
30,000 employees, subsequent to the Unilog
acquisition, in 36 countries across the globe, the
company brings employment and its attached
benefits to innumerable communities. The
company encourages staff to support local
neighbourhoods through appropriate activities.
Environment
As is stated within our environmental policy, the
company believes that the group's operations
have, by their nature, minimal impact on the
environment. However, we acknowledge that
there are some environmental impacts
associated with our daily operations.
We consider the development and
implementation of environmental standards to be
of great importance. As such, we strongly
encourage the 3 Rs:
• reduce 
• re-use, and
• recycle.
In the course of our operations we aim to 
reduce consumption of energy, water and 
other consumables. We also strive to re-use 
and recycle, where environmentally possible, 
and responsibly dispose of non-recyclable 
items. Through these actions we hope to 
lessen our impact on the environment,
particularly by limiting our waste and reducing
harmful emissions.
Our environmental policy is communicated on
the company’s website and intranet. We have
also allocated management resources to
implement the policy across the group. It is
hoped that by adopting simple, environmentally
friendly initiatives the company will distribute
awareness amongst our stakeholders and the
community. Examples of such initiatives include:
• encouraging employees to avoid non-essential
travel and use electronic communication
methods
• using effective facility maintenance
programmes to implement energy and water-
saving initiatives
• where possible, procuring resources and
services from suppliers who have a
sympathetic approach to the environment. 
The company regularly reviews its environmental
policy to ensure it reflects changes in regulations
and best practice. We aim to continue to
manage and reduce any material adverse impact
on the environment. P26 Corporate social responsibility statement  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
The company recognises that the first step to
reducing its environmental footprint is to quantify
it. We have commissioned an independent,
external company to measure emissions made
in the UK. Challenges lay in obtaining and
collating the necessary data and, subsequently,
new processes and procedures will be put in
place to ensure more comprehensive information
can be collected with more ease in the future.
The benefits will be better developed policies
which will contribute to the reduction of
emissions across the group.
The Kyoto Protocol defines 6 greenhouse 
gases (GHG), each with a different capacity to
cause global warming. Within the IT service
sector, companies are believed to emit these
gases both directly and indirectly. Direct
emissions originate from sources owned and
controlled by a company whilst indirect come
from sources which are owned by others but the
usage is controlled by the company in question.
As may be expected, the majority of LogicaCMG
UK’s emissions originate from the use of
electricity, gas and water supply, business
travel/transport and waste. It is anticipated that
continued fulfilment of the objectives detailed in
our environmental policy will, in the future,
reduce these emissions and hence our
environmental footprint.
LogicaCMG has met the FTSE Group’s
corporate responsibility criteria and is a
constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index
Series. Created by the FTSE Group, the global
index company, the FTSE4Good Index Series is
designed to identify companies that meet
globally recognised corporate responsibility
standards. Companies in the FTSE4Good Index
Series are working towards environmental
sustainability, developing positive relationships
with stakeholders and upholding and supporting
universal human rights.
Charity
Our staff have always been generous in their
support for charitable causes. The company
supports ‘give as you earn’ schemes to facilitate
financial donations by staff via the payroll. In
addition, the company encourages staff to
support charities and participate in local
charitable events and, where possible, donates
its surplus computers to local good causes.  
When making charitable donations, the
company’s aim is to develop partnerships with
national charities and non-governmental
organisations in countries in which it operates. In
response to the tsunami disaster which struck
Asia on 26 December 2004, the company
established the Tsunami Support Fund with a
donation of £100,000 from the company and
further contributions from staff. The purpose of
the Fund is to raise money for medium and long
term projects relating to the education of
affected children in that region.  
The company has also put in place, within 
the UK, an innovative scheme to benefit two 
of the countries largest child support charities,
the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children (NSPCC) and Children First. As part
of this scheme we pay the two organisations 
a proportion of the receipts received from all 
of our clients who signed up to our prompt
payment plan. In 2005, £9,600 was donated 
to the NSPCC. 
We believe that being active in the wider
community is an essential part of corporate
responsibility and as such, is an essential
element of the way we run our business. We
believe our charitable involvement and social
responsibility as being intrinsic to our people’s
and our company’s future.
Many of our staff contribute their own time to a
variety of charitable activities. The company
supports and encourages such activities and
has put together a ‘voluntary’ database on
which employees can list the charitable works in
which they participate. It is anticipated that this
will prove helpful in strengthening networks
across the company and enabling many of the
organisations we support to benefit from our
wide range of contacts. Our objective is to
create a mutually supportive network which
helps to add value to the various charitable
organisations in which we are involved. 
Political contributions
Our policy is not to make any donations to
political parties.
However, the UK Political Parties, Elections and
Referendums Act 2000 (the Act), which came
into force in February 2001, defines political
donations and political expenditure so broadly
that some of our activities may fall within the
definitions in the legislation.
These include seminars and other functions to
which politicians are invited, the cost of taking
part in industry forums and the cost to the
company of giving staff time off to take part in
municipal political activities.
While we do not intend to alter our normal
activities, we will continue to seek shareholder
authority for such expenditure to ensure that the
requirements of the Act are met.
With great enthusiasm from all participants,
Edinfor – a LogicaCMG company – held a
‘Planting The Future’ initiative at the
woodland and wildlife park Tapada de Mafra
some 40 km from Lisbon during October and
November 2005.
The event, held under the motto ‘Integration,
Growth and Success’, took place over four
sessions in three days and was attended by
several hundred Edinfor employees.
A total of 1,500 trees were planted at Tapada
de Mafra, one for each Edinfor employee, to
help restore Portugal’s forest area, after vast
portions of the park burnt down in wildfires
over two previous summers. The event
provided a good occasion to bring staff
together in a show of strong support for the
local community.
Planting The Future
Martin Read, chief executive, LogicaCMG (right) and Jim
Yeats, chief executive, LogicaCMG, Iberia, planting the
future, at Tapada de Mafra. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Corporate governance  P27
Corporate governance
The principal corporate governance guidance
that applies to companies listed with the UK
Listing Authority is contained in the 2003
Financial Reporting Council’s Combined Code
(the Code). The Code, which operates on a
“comply or explain” basis, incorporates, amongst
others, recommendations by the Higgs Review,
regarding the role of non-executive directors,
and the Smith Review, which refers to audit
committees. Through their commitment to the
highest standards of corporate governance, the
board endorses and supports the essential
elements of the Code and, apart from a few
limited exceptions as described below, believes
the group has fully complied with the Code
during the year reported on. Where it has not, an
explanation has been provided. The Company
has also complied with the listing requirements
of the UK Listing Authority, as updated on 1 July
2005, and those of Euronext Amsterdam and
the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets
(AFM) in the Netherlands. Since the acquisition
of Unilog S.A. on 13 January 2006, the
company has complied with the requirements of
the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF), the
French listing regulator in respect of Unilog’s
listing on Euronext Paris. It is the company’s
intention to delist Unilog S.A. from the Euronext
Paris during 2006.
The Board
LogicaCMG is led by an effective and objective
board, which is believed to be fundamental to
the success of the group. The board utilises a
framework of prudent and effective controls in
order to determine and manage the group’s
goals and the necessary strategies and policies
to achieve these goals. The company’s values
and standards set by the board, are upheld
throughout the group with the assistance of the
internal audit, quality assurance and risk
management functions. At board meetings, both
routine and ad hoc matters are considered. In
particular, the board considers and, where
necessary, debates the group chief executive’s
report. This report includes, but is not limited to
the following matters:
• budgets and strategy
• financial performance and forecasts
• corporate activities
• human resources
• shareholder, City and market matters.
Any concerns that members of the board 
may have, regarding the running of the 
company or a proposed action, are recorded 
in the board minutes.
The board ordinarily meets six times a year and
is available to hold additional meetings when
circumstances require. The number of meetings
is judged to be sufficient to discharge the
board’s duties effectively. To reflect the global
spread of the group, and to provide the board
with a higher level of visibility to the group’s
overseas operations, at least one of these
meetings is normally held outside the UK.  
Between meetings, the non-executive directors
are regularly updated on appropriate business
matters and topical issues by the chairman and
group chief executive. In addition, the chairman
holds meetings with the non-executive directors,
without the executive directors present to
consider any issues regarding the performance
of the executive team. Helmut Mamsch, the
senior independent non-executive director and
deputy chairman, also holds at least one
meeting per year with the non-executive
directors without the chairman present.
The board, which encompasses the audit,
remuneration and nomination committees, is
made up of directors from a variety of
backgrounds who bring together a wide range of
skills and experience to benefit the company. For
most of 2005, the board comprised the
chairman, three executive directors and five
independent non-executive directors, which
provided a majority of independent directors on
the board. On 25 October 2005, Gérard
Philippot was appointed as a non-independent
non-executive director pursuant to the
acquisition of Unilog S.A. Consequently, no
search consultancy or open advertising was
undertaken. On 10 January 2006, Didier
Herrmann was appointed as an executive
director. The company feels that the size of the
board is appropriate considering the recent
acquisition of Unilog S.A., which substantially
increased the size of the group.
The names and biographical details of the
directors can be seen on page 20.
All non-executive directors are considered
independent by the Code, with the exception of
Cor Stutterheim and Gérard Philippot, according
to provisions A.2.2 and A.3.1 respectively. Both
Cor Stutterheim and Gérard Philippot are
believed to be independent of character and
judgement by the board but due to their
previous executive positions in CMG and Unilog
respectively, they are not considered so by the
Code. Cor was re-elected at the 2005 AGM and
has recently assented to the board’s request that
he hold the position of chairman for a further
three-year term from 30 December 2005. 
On 1 March 2006, Gérard’s executive position
within Unilog ended and a consultancy
agreement came into effect. The terms of this
agreement can be found within the prospectus
relating to the acquisition of Unilog or can be
obtained from the company secretary. The
company believes that all non-executive
directors bring relevant experience and make
valuable contributions to achieving its objectives.
They do not act with self-interest and their
primary aims are to maximise shareholder wealth
and develop the company in line with pre-
determined strategic goals.  
During the period under review, the company
believes neither the chairman, nor any of the
non-executives, have held significant
commitments outside of the company, which
would interfere with their ability to effectively
execute their responsibilities.  
Non-executive directors are appointed for terms
of 3 years and are proposed for re-election in
accordance with the terms of the company’s
articles of association. The appointments of both
Gérard Philippot and Didier Herrmann were
endorsed by the nominations committee before
receiving final approval from the board. As
mentioned above, both these directors have
been appointed since the last annual general
meeting (AGM) and, therefore, will be proposed
for election at the forthcoming AGM. The
nominations committee, in accordance with the
committee’s terms of reference and the
company’s articles of association has proposed
Wim Dik, George Loudon and Angela Knight for
re-election at the 2006 AGM. Directors
submitting themselves for re-election at the AGM
have been subject to a more rigorous, formal
performance evaluation. They have
demonstrated their commitment to the company
and have performed effectively during the year.
Biographical details for those directors seeking
election at the 2006 AGM can be found on page
20. Copies of the directors’ terms and conditions
of appointment are available on request from the
company secretary.  
Communication with shareholders
The board gives a high priority to communication
with shareholders and takes the opportunities
afforded by the AGM and meetings with
institutional investors to ensure a mutual
understanding of the company’s objectives. 
All shareholders are welcomed to the AGM
where developments in the business are
explained and shareholders have the opportunity
to ask questions.   P28 Corporate governance  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
The company’s website (www.logicacmg.com)
provides access for all shareholders to
information about the company including results
presentations and all press releases. Financial
reporting is presented in such a way as to
present a balanced and understandable
assessment of the company’s position 
and prospects.
The board are made aware of shareholders’
views through face-to-face meetings,
presentations and feedback surveys. If
shareholders or investors do not wish to follow
the usual methods of communication through
the chairman, group chief executive or chief
financial officer, the board’s senior independent
director, Helmut Mamsch, is available and can
be contacted through the company secretary’s
office. He and all other non-executive directors
are regularly updated on shareholder and City
matters through internal briefings and the
provision of external analysis reports.  
Directors’ roles and training
There is a clear division of responsibility between
the running of the board, by the chairman Cor
Stutterheim, and the executive responsibility for
the running of the business held by the group
chief executive, Martin Read. The non-executive
chairman liaises with the group chief executive
on strategic issues and manages the board and
the AGM.  
All executive directors have a set of objectives,
which are updated annually or as required. 
Upon appointment, all directors undergo an
induction programme, which is specifically
designed to their individual requirements. In
addition, they receive appropriate training and
ongoing updates to improve their knowledge
and skills and enable them to discharge their
duties. Training requirements remain subject to
continuous review. In the cases of Didier
Herrmann and Gérard Philippot, both directors
have also received tutelage on the remit and
scope of the business and have made a number
of guided site visits. Independent and external
advice has been obtained, at the expense of the
company, to instruct them in relation to UK legal
matters and in particular UK corporate
governance, in order that they can discharge
their legal responsibilities effectively.
The company secretary is responsible for
providing regulatory updates to the board 
or to specific directors depending upon whether
they participate in individual board committees.
This information includes trading updates and
surveys from investors and analysts. He is 
also responsible for the timely dissemination 
of reliable and relevant information to help 
ensure directors can discharge their
responsibilities. All directors have access to 
the company secretary and, on request, to
independent professional advice. In addition, the
company secretary is also responsible for
ensuring good communication within the board
and between senior management and the non-
executive directors.
Board performance
The board subjects itself to an annual
performance review in order to continually
assess the appropriateness of their appointment.
In 2005, the board was appraised internally
using a two-stage process, which reflected
issues that had surfaced following the 2004
evaluation. The first phase involved each director
completing a comprehensive questionnaire,
which covered areas including, but not limited to,
the following:
• board objectives
• board composition
• board committees
• information/coverage/logistics
• communication
• non-executive director assessment
• board effectiveness.
Following this, interviews were conducted
between the non-executive directors and the
chairman with the company secretary. All
information resulting from the questionnaire and
interviews will be compiled into a report by the
company secretary, in conjunction with 
the chairman, which will be presented to the
board in 2006.  
The overall results of the 2004 review were
positive. However, the following actions were
taken to enhance the future operation of 
the board:
• additional time was devoted to the 
long-term strategy of the company as part 
of the decision making process to acquire
Unilog S.A.
• the agendas of board and committee meetings
were reviewed, this was undertaken to ensure
that they fully reflected the growth and
activities of the business.
The performance of the chairman was reviewed,
in his absence by the non-executives, led by the
senior independent non-executive director,
Helmut Mamsch. All directors who have served
on the board for a period in excess of six years
were subject to a particularly rigorous review.
Terms of reference
Through the board and relevant committee
terms of reference, the role, duties and
responsibilities of directors and board
committees are clearly defined. In keeping with
the principles of the Code, the board implements
best corporate governance practice through
these terms of reference.  
The board has written terms of reference, which
are reviewed annually and summarised on the
company’s website, as well as a list of identified
matters reserved entirely for their decision.
Matters reserved for the board include 
• financial matters of a material nature or value
including operating, budget and strategic
plans, interim and preliminary statements,
dividend payments, capital investment,
acquisitions or divestments and any value of
goodwill write-off relating to subsidiary
company activities
• approval of sales contracts of a material size
• adoption of any significant change in
accounting policies
• corporate/administrative matters such as the
size and composition of the board and its
committees and authorisation levels
• annual report and accounts
• the resolutions to be placed before
shareholders at an annual (or extraordinary)
general meeting, including any approval to be
sought for the report of any sub-committees,
and 
• all stock exchange circulars and listing
particulars.
The board is responsible for a number of group
policies and practices including, risk
management, ethics and the environment.
Further detail on the latter two policies can be
found within the Corporate Social Responsibility
Statement on pages 25 and 26.
Matters falling under the terms of reference are,
ordinarily, dealt with at regular board meetings.
Where this is inappropriate the company
secretary is responsible for ensuring board
members are advised of the matter. Procedures
for dealing with matters between regular board
meetings are detailed within the board’s terms of
reference. Following consideration by the board,
certain matters may be delegated to a
committee of the board or individual director.
Such matters may include the approval of non-
routine stock exchange announcements and the
grant of employee share options. Day-to-day
management of the company is delegated to the
executive directors.
Committees are able to, and do, invite directors
who are not members of that committee, to
attend particular meetings. Minutes of committee
meetings are sent, at their request, to those
directors who are not a member of the
committee. All committees, as well as directors
individually, have the means and resources to
access independent professional advice at the
company’s expense. The company secretary
acts as secretary to each board committee. 
Audit committee
The audit committee, which comprises all
independent non-executive directors, is chaired LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Corporate governance  P29
by Roger Payne and includes Angela Knight,
George Loudon and Wim Dik. The board
considers Roger Payne, following his role as a
former finance director of a FTSE 100 company,
to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The audit committee’s terms of reference include
tasks such as overseeing the internal audit
function, which includes reviewing the group’s
accounting and financial reporting procedures;
the engagement of external auditors, monitoring
their independence and effectiveness, and
setting their remuneration and reviewing the
group’s annual and interim financial statements.
In addition, the committee receives regular
updates from the company’s quality assurance,
risk management, treasury and tax functions.
Regular updates on changes in accounting and
reporting practices affecting the company are
also provided to the audit committee.
The audit committee has approved and is
responsible for approving any non-audit work to
be undertaken by the company’s auditors. This
process is summarised below. In addition, it is
responsible for the company’s internal
confidential disclosure policy, which allows staff
to raise concerns about possible improprieties.
Further details regarding the policy can be found
in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on
page 25. The committee is also responsible for
overseeing the operations of the internal audit
and risk management functions.
The chairman of the audit committee and the
committee itself meet at least four times a year
with the external auditors. The group chief
executive, chief financial officer, group financial
controller, internal auditor and other relevant
executives attend the meetings at the request of
the committee.
Internal control
The board is responsible for the group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing 
its effectiveness. 
As such, procedures have been established that
enable the group to comply with the guidance
on internal controls issued by the Turnbull
Committee and those that are included in the
Code. The board has reviewed the effectiveness
of the systems of internal control for the
accounting year and the period to the approval
of the financial statements.This review covered
all material controls, including financial,
operational and compliance controls and risk
management systems and is in accordance with
the Turnbull guidance. The review did not cover
the activities of Unilog prior to its acquisition on
13 January 2006. However, action is being taken
to ensure that the company's Unilog business
has suitable internal controls in place, which are 
consistent with requirements of the Turnbull
Committee and the Code.
The group’s approach to internal control is
based on the underlying principle of line
management’s accountability for risk and control
management. The group has a risk-based
approach to internal control, and management
are responsible for implementing, operating and
monitoring the system. It should be understood
that no system of internal control can eliminate
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives
or provide absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. 
The key elements of the control system in
operation are:
• The group operates a highly structured,
objectives-driven approach to fulfil its core
purpose and goals in respect of sustained
profitability and growth. The strategic
objectives of the group are captured in a
strategic plan, developed by the executive
committee and approved by the board, which
addresses revenue and associated costs and
necessary investment. This plan then forms the
basis of annual revenue and profit targets for
the operating units in the group.
• The research and development and capital
investment programmes are subject to a
formal review procedure requiring that rigorous
qualification criteria be met prior to each
instance of material investment. Evaluation and
post-investment appraisals are performed by
reference to detailed business plans.
• The monitoring regime established by the
board, through which the performance
indicators derived from the strategic and
annual plans are regularly interrogated, ensure
that events which pose significant risk to the
attainment of the group’s objectives or
significant control lapses are communicated
through a process of rapid escalation to senior
management. Unit performance is evaluated
on a monthly basis, and this evaluation
includes the addressing of identified control
weaknesses and ensuring the conclusion of
previously recommended corrective actions.
• Business unit management throughout the
group and specific corporate functional
managers are required annually to complete a
full self-assessment process. With the
completion of this process, management can
identify and quantify the risks that face their
businesses and functions. This process also
provides assurance as to risk and internal
control management, financial controls and
reporting, project control, treasury
management and information management.
• In addition to this structured self-assessment
process, the audit committee receives reports
from both internal and external auditors on a
regular basis. The internal audit department
conducts reviews that include the control of
financial systems, business unit operations and
compliance. During the period reported on, the
audit committee has reviewed the
effectiveness of the system of internal control
as described above.
Risk management
The board recognises the need to understand
and control the variety of risks to which the
company is exposed. In order to combat these
risks, the board oversees a risk management
strategy committee (RMSC) chaired by the chief
financial officer. Through this committee the
board exercises a framework for managing risk
within the group. Five practice panels support
the committee and are, respectively, responsible
for the areas of delivery, operations, finance,
human resource, and sales and marketing. In
conjunction with these panels, the RMCSC is
responsible for the regular evaluation of inherent
risks within the business and the identification of
controls to address them.  
The risk process identifies, evaluates and
manages significant risks faced by the group.
These risks are first, prioritised and then
procedures and processes are put in place to
address them. Risks are assessed with reference
to the achievement of the group’s business
objectives and according to current market
issues. The continuous monitoring of strategic
and operational risks are the responsibilities of
the board and line management respectively.
Clearly defined delegation of responsibilities and
authorisation levels contribute to a
comprehensive system, which exists for
controlling these risks and ensuring they are
adequately addressed. Core operating
procedures common to all areas of the group
are clearly documented. The internal audit and
quality assurance functions perform regular
audits and are part of the fulfilment of line
management’s risk management responsibilities.
External auditors
The external auditors provide a supplementary,
independent and autonomous perspective on
the overall integrity of those areas of the internal
control system, which they assess in the course
of their work. Their findings are reported regularly
to both the audit committee and the board. The
audit committee assesses the evidence provided
to them through the various mechanisms and
seeks to ensure that the risk management
process adequately addresses all of the major
risks to the group. To ensure auditor objectivity
and independence there is a stringent process in
place to approve non-audit work. Proposed
work must be approved by both the group
financial controller and company secretary before
being passed to the chief financial officer who
escalates the proposal if appropriate to the audit
committee where written approval must be P30 Corporate governance  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
obtained. Details regarding the remuneration of
the external auditors in terms of audit and non-
audit work can be found on page 54.
Going concern
The directors, having made enquiries, consider
that the company and the group have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future, and therefore it is
appropriate to maintain the going concern basis
in preparing the financial statements.
Nomination committee
The nomination committee, which comprises a
majority of independent non-executives, is
chaired by Cor Stutterheim and includes Martin
Read, Helmut Mamsch, Wim Dik and George
Loudon. The committee reviews the balance of
skills, knowledge and experience represented on
the board and makes recommendations to the
board concerning any adjustments deemed to
be appropriate.
Under its terms of reference the nomination
committee oversees the search and selection
process of new directors and aims to do so
within the parameters set by the Code. In the
event of a vacancy on the board, the committee
may engage external independent professional
advisers to assist in the search for suitable
candidates. A short list of candidates will be
established and selected candidates will be
interviewed and recommended for consideration
by the board. The nominations committee was
convened on five occasions during 2005. Other
directors are entitled to attend at the invitation of
the nominations committee.  
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee’s membership is
comprised wholly of independent non-executive
directors. It meets at least five times a year, is
chaired by Angela Knight and its other members
are Helmut Mamsch and George Loudon. The
committee’s key role is to determine the
company’s senior executive remuneration policy
and levels of remuneration for the company’s
executive committee, the higher paid senior
management, company secretary and head of
internal audit. Details of the committee's main
functions and its remuneration policies for
directors and senior management are set out on
pages 31 to 35. The group chief executive and
the human resources director (non-board
member) are invited to attend the remuneration
committee meetings at the invitation of the
committee. Watson Wyatt are the independent
advisers to the remuneration committee.
Board attendance
The table below shows the attendance of
directors at scheduled meetings of the board
and audit, remuneration and nominations
committees during 2005.  
In addition to the AGM, which all board
members attended, an EGM in relation to the
Unilog transaction was held which was attended
by all of the board, except for Martin Read, Jim
McKenna, Wim Dik and George Loudon.
External appointments
Executive directors are permitted, by the
company, to accept and maintain up to two
non-executive appointments at any one time.
We are not currently compliant with provision
A.4.5 of the Code. However, it is the company’s
policy that individuals are not normally able to
hold a second non-executive appointment with 
a UK FTSE 100 company. Martin Read has 
two non-executive appointments with FTSE 
100 companies. Both of these appointments
were effective prior to the publication of the
revised Code.  
Fees earned by executive directors are retained
by the relevant director, which reflects the
personal risk assumed in such appointments.
This remuneration is fully disclosed in the
relevant company’s annual report and accounts.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are required by UK company 
law to prepare financial statements for each
financial year, which give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the group and company
as at the end of the financial year and of the
profit and cash flows of that year. In preparing
those financial statements, the directors are
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then
apply them consistently
• make judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent
• state whether applicable accounting standards
have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements
• prepare the financial statements on a going
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the group and company will
continue in business
• be responsible for the maintenance and
integrity of the company’s website
• acknowledge that legislation in the UK
concerning the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors confirm that they have complied
with the above requirements in preparing the
financial statements. The directors are
responsible for keeping proper accounting
records, which disclose with reasonable
accuracy, at any time, the financial position of
the group and company and enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with
the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for the group’s system of internal
control and for safeguarding the assets of the
group and company and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
By order of the board
P Weaver FCIS
Company secretary
29 March 2006
Board
1
Remuneration Audit Nomination
committee committee committee
Maximum number of ordinary 
meetings per director 6645
Cor Stutterheim 6 1* (N/A) 5
Martin Read 6 4* 1* 5
Jim McKenna 5 (N/A) (N/A) (N/A)
Seamus Keating 5 1* 4* (N/A)
Helmut Mamsch 6 6 (N/A) 5
Wim Dik 6 (N/A) 2 3
Angela Knight 664 (N/A)
George Loudon 5525
Roger Payne 5 (N/A) 4 (N/A)
Gérard Philippot
2
1 (N/A) (N/A) (N/A)
* In attendance for specific discussions by invitation of the committee.
1
In addition, seven further meetings were held at short notice.
2
Only one board meeting was held in 2005 following the appointment of Gérard Philippot. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Report of the remuneration committee  P31
Report of the remuneration committee
Remuneration report
This report by the remuneration committee
has been approved by the board for
submission to shareholders in accordance
with the reporting requirements of the
directors’ remuneration report regulations
2002. Further detail concerning the operation
of the remuneration committee may be found
in the company’s corporate governance
report within this annual report and accounts.
The remuneration committee
(This part of the remuneration report 
is unaudited)
The remuneration committee (the committee)
is composed entirely of independent non-
executive directors and the three members
throughout 2005, and currently, are Angela
Knight (chairman), George Loudon and
Helmut Mamsch. It meets at least five times
a year and is responsible to both the board
and the shareholders for setting the overall
policy on senior executive remuneration;
determining the remuneration packages of
each of the executive directors, the executive
committee members, the company secretary,
the head of internal audit and certain senior
directors; and for overseeing the operation of
the company’s employee share schemes.
The committee has appointed Watson Wyatt
as its independent executive remuneration
consultants, but seeks information from other
independent sources and from the group
chief executive, chief financial director, group
human resources director and company
secretary as appropriate. Watson Wyatt also
acts as advisers, actuaries and
administrators to the LogicaCMG Defined
Contribution Pension Scheme, as advisers
and actuaries to the Logica Defined Benefit
Plan and as investment advisers to the CMG
UK Pension Scheme. New Bridge Street
Consultants provide assistance on the
administration of the group’s share schemes.
The committee may invite any of the
executive directors to attend all or part 
of its meetings but no individual would be
present when their own remuneration is
being discussed.
The contribution and operation of the
committee comply with the Code of 
Best Practice provisions on directors’
remuneration in the Combined Code of 
the UK Listing Authority.
Policy on executive directors’
remuneration
(This part of the remuneration report 
is unaudited)
The remuneration policy for executive
directors and executive committee members
is constructed to motivate and retain
executives of the required calibre by ensuring
that total remuneration and its components
remain commercially competitive; and to
align the interests of executives with those of
shareholders through the use of a
combination of performance driven cash and
equity-based awards in addition to base
salary and benefits. The committee also has
to take into account the international scope
of the company as some four-fifths of the
employees live and work outside the UK.
Components of remuneration in 2005
(This part of the remuneration report 
is unaudited)
The fixed elements of remuneration are 
base salary, pension and benefits, and 
the performance related elements are the
annual bonus, the Executive Equity
Partnership Plan and share options. In terms
of the balance of remuneration, if a bonus of
50 per cent of maximum is paid; then
approximately 49 per cent of total
remuneration is from the fixed elements and
51 per cent from those which are
performance related. If the maximum bonus
of 100 per cent of base salary is paid, then
the fixed element of total remuneration
reduces to 39 per cent and the performance
related increases to 61 per cent.
#
Base salary
Salaries are reviewed annually taking into
account market comparisons including
company type, sector, measures of company
size (such as market capitalisation, turnover
and employee numbers) and degree of
international scope.
Annual bonus
The structure of the annual bonus
arrangements for 2005 was the same as 
in previous years.  
A base line bonus figure is generated
according to performance against 2005
Earnings Per Share (EPS)*. The actual 
EPS target is communicated to executive
directors but not published as this
information would be price sensitive.
Depending upon achievement against the
group cash conversion target, a multiplier of
between 0.5 and 1.3 is applied to this base
line bonus. Finally, a multiplier of between 0.5
and 1.5 is derived from an assessment of
each individual’s performance, and applied to
give the resulting bonus figure. The bonus is
subject to an absolute cap of 100 per cent of
salary. The bonus an individual receives is
therefore determined by the group
performance, the cash conversion achieved
and their own personal performance.
However, where an executive director’s
personal performance is judged
unacceptable their multiplier may be 
zero with the consequence that no bonus
would be payable.
In appropriate circumstances the committee
may exercise its discretion in determining any
bonuses paid.
Executive Equity Partnership Plan 1998
This plan was approved by shareholders 
in 1998 and allows executive directors 
and other senior executives by invitation to
invest up to 50 per cent of their after tax
annual bonus payment in company shares. 
If they remain in the group’s employment and 
retain their shares for three years, then
provided the performance conditions are
met, the company will match the shares 
on a one-to-one gross of tax basis at no cost
to the employee. P32 Report of the remuneration committee  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
The current performance condition, which
remains unchanged from previous years, is
that if the group’s EPS** growth performance
over the relevant three-year performance
period exceeds the growth in the UK Retail
Price Index (UK RPI) by an average of 3 per
cent per annum then 20 per cent of the
matching award will vest. At UK RPI growth
plus 7 per cent per annum, matching shares
will vest in full, and between 3 per cent and 
7 per cent per annum matching shares will
vest on a sliding scale basis. Should EPS**
growth be on average below UK RPI plus 
3 per cent then the matching awards will
lapse. No executive director was eligible to
participate in the plan in 2005 as they did not
receive a bonus in respect of 2004.
Executive Share Option Scheme 1996
The Executive Share Option Scheme was
approved by shareholders in 1996. Option
grants are made (at no cost to the employee)
to senior executives and managers across
the group, to other staff with high potential,
or to recognise significant achievements.
Options are normally granted after the
declaration of the group's preliminary results
and are limited to a maximum four times
annual salary at face value. Options may
normally be exercised between the third and
tenth anniversary of the date of the grant
provided the performance condition has been
met. The performance condition, and the
way in which it determines the proportions in
which the options will vest, are the same as
for the Executive Equity Partnership Plan
1998 described above.
Since 2004, grants have been made without
any retesting. In 2005 (as previously), the
grant was based on the level, size and
complexity of the role of the recipient, rather
than a simple multiple of salary.
Pensions
No substantial changes were made in the
pension arrangements of any executive
director during 2005. LogicaCMG operates a
defined contribution pension plan – the
LogicaCMG Defined Contribution Pension
Scheme. This is the main pension fund for
UK employees and the only scheme available
to new UK employees. Jim McKenna and
Seamus Keating are members of this scheme
and the company pays contributions at the
rate of 15 per cent of full salary, with the
employee contributions set at 5 per cent of
salary. The company also makes further
pension contributions on Jim McKenna’s
behalf through approved salary sacrifice
arrangements. Contributions are invested 
in the scheme up to the current approved
HM Revenue and Customs limit with the
balance held in an Unfunded Unapproved
Retirement Benefit Scheme (UURBS)
awaiting the implementation of the new
pension legislation.
In 2005, a total of 30 per cent of Martin
Read’s base salary was paid as employer's
contributions to his various defined
contributions plans.
Cor Stutterheim ceased to be an active
member of CMG's Stichting Pensioenfonds
(a non contributory defined benefit pension
scheme) in December 2002 but retains his
accrued benefits in the scheme. No further
benefits were accrued during 2005 and
details of his entitlements and appropriate
transfer values are shown in the table on
page 36.
No additional pension contributions have 
been made in respect of any former director 
of the company.
Benefits
In addition to their pension provisions all
executive directors are entitled to company 
life insurance at four times annual salary,
permanent health cover, private medical
insurance benefits, medical check ups, 
car and fuel (or cash allowances in lieu), 
an interest free season ticket loan and
personal accident insurance.
All-employee share schemes
(This part of the remuneration report 
is unaudited)
The group operates three share schemes at
least one of which is open to the majority of
employees globally, subject to local legal and
tax constraints. Both Sharesave and the
Employee Equity Partnership Plan were
operated in the UK in 2005 and the executive
directors were consequently eligible to
participate in these schemes.
Sharesave
All eligible employees may contribute up to
£250 per month for a set period to purchase
the company’s shares at a price set at the
time share options were granted. In the UK,
this scheme is approved by the HM Revenue
and Customs. The executive directors are
eligible to participate in this scheme.
Although a discount of up to 20 per cent
may be offered on the share option price, no
such discount was applied in 2005.
Employee Equity Partnership Plan
Through this plan, eligible staff have the
opportunity to invest up to £400 per annum
in the company’s shares. After three years,
subject to continued employment by the
group, retention of the shares originally
purchased and achievement of a
performance condition, the shares will be
matched on the basis of up to one share for
every share originally purchased. This is 
one of the few all-employee plans of this 
type in the UK that incorporates a
performance condition.
The current performance condition, which
remains unchanged from the previous year, is
that if the group’s EPS** growth performance
over the relevant three-year period equals the
growth in the UK RPI then 20 per cent of the
matched shares may vest. At UK RPI plus 
3 per cent the matching shares will vest in
full. Within this performance range the
matched shares may vest on a sliding scale
basis. If EPS** growth is lower than the
growth in UK RPI the award will not vest 
at all.  
The performance condition for awards
granted in 2002 was not met but the
committee exercised its discretion to allow
one-third of the matching award to be
realised in recognition of the performance
condition being satisfied in one year of the
three-year performance period. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Report of the remuneration committee  P33
The executive directors are eligible to
participate in this scheme. However, if they
choose to participate in the Executive Equity
Partnership Plan, they lose the right to
participate in the Employee Equity
Partnership Plan for that year. No executive
director participated in 2005.
US Stock Purchase Plan
US-based employees are eligible to
participate in a tax favourable stock purchase
plan. They may save up to a maximum of
$2,000 per annum, the savings being used
to buy shares at quarterly intervals. The
group contributes an additional 15 per cent
to the amount saved per employee. US-
based employees are not eligible to
participate in Sharesave or the Employee
Equity Partnership Plan.
Executive shareholding
(This part of the remuneration report 
is unaudited)
The company’s executive share retention
policy was introduced in 2005. It states that
executive directors and the most senior
executives within the group who are invited
to participate in the Executive Equity
Partnership Plan, or who receive share
options, are expected to acquire and retain
a significant holding in LogicaCMG shares.
The shareholder requirement for executive
directors, and the required time frame within
which they have to achieve this, are set out
in the table below.
Executives are required to invest 50 per cent
of their net annual bonus in shares until the
company’s ownership requirements have
been met. In addition, and as stated on page
34, from 2006 there will be a requirement
that 20 per cent of the net annual bonus
must be invested in shares through the new
Executive Equity Participation Plan 2006
regardless of shareholding.
None of the executive directors are in breach
of the share retention policy.
Performance conditions
(This part of the remuneration report 
is unaudited)
The company has used EPS growth as its
share scheme performance measure as EPS
growth remains substantially within the control
of the directors and is therefore an appropriate
measure of their performance. As detailed
below, however, the company will in future
also use Total Shareholder Return as a
performance condition within its share plans.
The performance conditions used in 2005
represent stretching targets designed to
ensure that share incentives achieve the
objective of motivating and incentivising
management for good long-term performance. 
Remuneration policy changes
(This part of the remuneration report 
is unaudited)
In last year’s report, the committee
announced its intention to undertake a full
review of the overall remuneration package
for executive directors, executive committee
members and other senior managers
including both short and long-term incentive
arrangements. This review was intended to
ensure that the remuneration arrangements
continued to fulfil the overall objective of
attracting, retaining and motivating
executives of the required calibre, aligning
the interests of executives with those 
of shareholders, and reflecting developing 
good practice.
The committee also took into account market
data and its own experience in recruiting for
positions at, or just below, the executive
committee level which indicated that the
market for senior executive talent remains
extremely competitive. As a result, the
committee has concluded that certain
changes to the remuneration arrangements
for senior executives are required.
These changes, developed in conjunction
with the committee's advisors Watson Wyatt,
and in consultation with major institutional
shareholders, are set out below. Certain
proposals relating to the introduction of new
incentive arrangements will also be put to the
forthcoming annual general meeting (AGM)
for shareholder approval.
Base salary
The committee’s policy on salary will be to
continue to pay market competitive base
salaries against suitable comparator
companies; broadly this will mean market
median for an individual deemed to be fully
effective in their role and who is around 
mid-career. Less experienced new
appointees may be paid below market
median whilst very experienced individuals,
and those regarded by the committee as
particularly key to the future success of the
company, may be paid a base salary of
around upper quartile in special cases.
Following a review of market data, and in 
line with the above approach, the committee
has implemented increases in base salaries
for executive directors in the range from 
7.14 per cent to 8.33 per cent effective from
1 January 2006.
The Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006 (LTIP)
The committee has confirmed its view that
the use of equity-based incentives remains
an important mechanism for aligning the
interests of executives with those of
shareholders. However, the committee has
also concluded that the existing Executive
Share Option Scheme (ESOS) (which in any
event reaches the end of its ten-year life in
2006) no longer provides an effective
mechanism for motivating executives. 
In particular, the recent history of share
option grants that have failed to vest means
that options are heavily discounted in the
minds of executives well below their cost to
the company.
The committee therefore proposes to replace
the current ESOS with a new Long-Term
Incentive Plan (LTIP) which will be brought to
the forthcoming AGM for approval by
shareholders. In brief, the main features of
the LTIP are as follows:
• an annual award of shares can be made 
to executives where appropriate, which will 
be released after three years provided that
challenging performance targets have 
been achieved;
• 50 per cent of each award will have an
Earnings Per Share (EPS) performance
condition attached to it, and 50 per cent
will have a Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
performance condition.
The committee believes that by including
both EPS and TSR conditions the true
performance of the company will be 
better reflected. 
◊
Shares are valued at their purchase price or market value at 31 December (whichever is the higher).
Shareholding Shareholding
value
◊
value
◊
(percentage of Time frame (percentage of Time frame
annual salary) (years) annual salary) (years)
Group chief executive 50 3 100 5
Other executive directors 30 3 75 5 P34 Report of the remuneration committee  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Full details of the LTIP and of the
performance conditions are contained in the
shareholders’ circular.
Executive Share Option Plan 2006
The company will also be seeking
shareholder approval for the retention of an
executive share option scheme. This will
provide flexibility to use share options in
circumstances where the use of the LTIP may
be inappropriate; for example for employees
in certain countries where the taxation or
securities regime makes its use unattractive. 
Annual bonus and Executive Equity
Participation Plan 2006
The committee is proposing to increase the
maximum annual bonus from 100 per cent to
125 per cent of base salary. There will be a
corresponding requirement that, even where
the executive has met the requirement of the
share retention policy described on page 33,
20 per cent of each year’s annual bonus
must be invested in bonus investment shares
through the Executive Equity Participation
Plan 2006. This plan will also be brought to
the coming AGM for approval by
shareholders and will operate on substantially
the same basis as the existing Executive
Equity Partnership Plan 1998 which it will
replace. The plan will incorporate the same
performance conditions as the proposed 
new LTIP.
Full details of the Executive Equity
Participation Plan 2006 and of the
performance conditions are contained in the
shareholders’ circular.
Pensions
The company has considered the new rules
for the taxation of pensions that come into
force in April 2006 and has decided that if an
executive wishes to change their current
pension arrangement for personal tax
reasons, the company will offer them an
alternative that is designed to be cost neutral
to the company.
Directors’ employment contracts
(This part of the remuneration report 
is unaudited)
Executive directors each have a service
contract that continues until normal
retirement age (65) unless terminated by
either party. It is the committee’s policy that
executive directors’ contracts should
incorporate no more than one year’s notice
of termination from the company in line with
current market practice.
Martin Read, Jim McKenna and Seamus
Keating are required to give the company a
minimum of three months’ notice of
termination of employment. The company is
required to give them one year’s notice.
Martin Read’s service contract which dates
from 27 July 1993 contains a liquidated
damages clause which provides that if the
company terminates his employment in
breach of contract, the company will pay to
him an amount equal to one year’s gross
salary plus a further amount equal to 30 per
cent of his annual gross salary as
compensation in respect of pensions, bonus
and other benefits. No other director's
service contract includes a liquidated
damages clause and no such clause will be
incorporated into future contracts for
executive directors.  
Other executive directors’ contracts do not
contain any provision for compensation upon
termination of employment beyond payment
in lieu of contractual notice. The service
contract of Jim McKenna which dates from
29 October 1993 and of Seamus Keating
which dates from 1 January 2002 provide
that any payment made to either of them in
lieu of notice is calculated on the basis of
gross salary plus an additional 12.5 per cent
as a contribution to the value of benefits. The
service contracts of Jim McKenna and
Seamus Keating also provide that if the
company makes a payment in lieu of notice,
the individual’s entitlement to a company 
car will continue as if notice had been given
to them.
Non-executive directorships
The company recognises that executive
directors may be invited to become non-
executive directors of other companies 
and that such appointments can broaden
their knowledge and experience to the
benefit of the company. The individual
directors may normally retain fees as the
posts entail personal responsibility. Martin
Read and Jim McKenna both received fees in
their capacity as non-executive directors of
other companies, details of which can be
found in the report and accounts of the
relevant companies.
Former directors
(This part of the remuneration report 
is unaudited)
Ian Taylor
Following his retirement on 30 June 2004 the
services of Ian Taylor were retained on a
consultancy basis at commercial rates to
provide material assistance to certain senior
executives as part of the company’s senior
management succession programme. Fees
for these services are shown in the table of
directors’ emoluments.
Andrew Given
Following his retirement on 31 December
2002, the company retained the services of
Andrew Given on a consultancy basis at
commercial rates to provide material
assistance to certain senior executives as
part of the company’s leadership
development programme. Fees for these
services are shown in the table of 
directors’ emoluments.
Non-executive directors
(This part of the remuneration report 
is unaudited)
Non-executive directors only receive fees 
and are not eligible for performance related
bonuses, nor do they participate in any
group employee benefit plans or group 
share schemes.
Cor Stutterheim’s fees are determined by the
board upon the recommendation of the
committee and the group chief executive.
The fees of the other non-executive directors
are determined by the executive directors
from recommendations from Cor Stutterheim
and Martin Read. The board has the power
to award additional remuneration to non-
executive directors for services outside the
scope of their ordinary duties. No such
additional payments were made during 
the year.
The fees and fee structure for the non-
executive directors were last reviewed in
2002 to reflect market rates. A further review
has now been undertaken and revised fees
implemented effective from 
1 January 2006. 
Non-executive directors do not have
contracts of service for the company and are
not entitled to any payments for loss of office
or any unexpired term of their appointment
as a non-executive director. cLogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Report of the remuneration Committee  P35
Cor Stutterheim’s appointment was for 
an initial period of three years from 
30 December 2002 and is subject to three
months’ notice on either side. He has since
been re-elected by shareholders until the
AGM in 2008.
Wim Dik was appointed with effect from 
30 December 2002 for an initial period of
three years ending at the AGM in 2006 and
will therefore be proposed for re-election at
the forthcoming AGM. 
Angela Knight was appointed with effect 
from 8 July 1999 for an initial period of three
years. She has since been re-elected by
shareholders until the AGM in 2007 but 
will be proposed for re-election at the
forthcoming AGM.
George Loudon was appointed with effect
from 30 December 2002 for an initial period
ending at the AGM in 2006 and will
therefore be proposed for re-election at the
forthcoming AGM.
Helmut Mamsch was appointed with effect
from 8 September 1997 for an initial period
of three years. He has since been re-elected
by shareholders until the AGM in 2008.
Roger Payne was appointed with effect from
10 September 2004 for an initial period of
three years ending at the AGM in 2008.
Following completion of the Block Trade as
part of the Unilog acquisition Gérard
Philippot was appointed with effect from 
25 October 2005 for a fixed term to 
3 March 2007. At the end of this fixed term
Gérard Philippot will be entitled to retire or
remain in office subject to re-election by
shareholders at the 2007 AGM. In addition
to his appointment as non-executive
director, Gérard Philippot has a consultancy
agreement with the company at an annual
value of €300,000 per annum.
Angela Knight
Chairman, remuneration committee
29 March 2006
#
Calculation assumes maximum investment in the
Executive Equity Partnership Plan (50 per cent of
net bonus). Value of share options and matching
award under the Executive Equity Partnership Plan
calculated by Watson Wyatt using their Present
Economic Value formula.
* The definition of EPS for bonus purposes in 2005
is EPS based on net profit attributable to ordinary
shareholders, excluding the following items:
• discontinued operations
• exceptional items
• mark-to-market gains and losses on financial
assets and financial liabilities designated at fair
value through profit or loss
• amortisation of those intangible assets initially
recognised at fair value in a business combination
• tax on those items, where applicable.
** The definition of EPS for the performance
conditions applied to the Executive Equity
Partnership Plan, Employee Equity Partnership Plan
and the Executive Share Option Plan in 2005, is
EPS excluding, whenever such items occur: the
results of discontinued operations; exceptional
items; mark-to-market gains or losses on financial
assets and financial liabilities designated at fair
value through profit or loss; and amortisation of
intangible assets initially recognised at fair value in
a business combination. All items adjusted are net
of tax where applicable. P36 Report of the remuneration committee  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Additional holding
following the
1 January 2005 rights issue 31 December 2005
Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial
C J M Stutterheim 1,079,478 – 130,463 1,209,941 –
M P Read 113,597 – 56,798 170,395 –
S Keating 11,789 – 5,894 17,683 –
J A P McKenna 55,744 – 27,871 83,615 –
Wim Dik –––––
A A Knight 1,430 – 715 2,145 –
G E Loudon 2,478 – 1,239 3,717 –
H C-J Mamsch –––––
R C Payne
1
– – 6,842 20,526 –
G Philippot
2
– – - 8,611,532 –
Emoluments of the directors (this information has been audited)
Interests of the directors at the year end in the shares of the company are as follows (this information is unaudited)
Transfer value of the  Change in 
change in accrued accrued pension Accrued Accrued Change in transfer Transfer Transfer
pension 31/12/04 31/12/04 to pension at pension at value 31/12/04 value at value at
to 31/12/05 31/12/05 31/12/05 31/12/04 to 31/12/05 31/12/05 31/12/04
€€€€€€€
n/a n/a 396,841 396,841 188,532 3,702,231 3,513,699
Pension benefit details for C J M Stutterheim (this information has been audited)
1 January to 31 December 2005 Pension Pension
Salary Performance- Benefits Total Total contributions contributions
and fees related bonus in kind 2005 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chairman and executive directors
C J M Stutterheim 150 – – 150 150 – –
M P Read 600 557 33 1,190 582 180 165
S Keating 350 325 25 700 304 53 42
J A P McKenna
1
362 371 17 750 306 98 94
1,462 1,253 75 2,790 1,342 331 301
Non-executive directors
W Dik 30 – – 30 30 – –
A A Knight 36 – – 36 36 – –
G E Loudon 32 – – 32 32 – –
H C-J Mamsch 75 – – 75 75 – –
R C Payne
2
36 – – 36 11 – –
G Philippot
3
6–– 6–––
215 – – 215 184 – -
Former directors
A F Given
4
43 – – 43 54 – –
I Taylor
5
23 – – 23 138 – 21
66 – – 66 192 – 21
Total 1,743 1,253 75 3,071 1,718 331 322
1
The company pays increased pension contributions to satisfy salary sacrifice
arrangements entered into by J A P McKenna.
2
R C Payne was appointed non-executive director on 10 September 2004.
3
G Philippot was appointed non-executive director on 25 October 2005.
4
A F Given retired as a director of Logica on 31 December 2002. Emoluments disclosed
1
R C Payne purchased 13,684 shares on 15 March 2005.
2
G Philippot’s shareholding is as at the date of his appointment, 25 October 2005.
for 2005 and 2004 are payments of an agreement for consultancy services.
5
I Taylor retired as a director on 30 June 2004. Emoluments disclosed for 2005 are a
payment of an agreement for consultancy services. Remuneration for 2004 includes
salary, benefits and pension to 30 June 2004 and consultancy fees in the period 
1 July to 31 December 2004. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Report of the remuneration committee  P37
Exercise dates
Options Exercise price
Options held Options Lapsed/ adjustment Options held (pence) adjusted
at 1 January granted during cancelled following the at 31 December for the 
2005 the year during the year rights issue* 2005 Grant date rights issue* Earliest Latest
M P Read 784,455 - - 108,019 892,474 17/09/98 329.0834 17/09/01 16/09/08
261,485 - - 36,006 297,491 14/09/99 698.0919 14/09/02 13/09/09
98,379 - - 13,546 111,925 17/10/00 1626.0760 17/10/03 16/10/10
1,621 - - 223 1,844 17/10/00 1626.0760 17/10/03 16/10/10
150,000 - - 20,655 170,655 13/09/01 598.5717 13/09/04 12/09/11
650,000 - - 89,505 739,505 24/09/02 107.2331 24/09/05 23/09/12
600,000 - - 82,620 682,620 23/09/03 238.1981 23/09/06 22/09/13
2,730 - - 375 3,105 24/09/03 238.1981 01/12/06 31/05/07
705 - - 97 802 30/03/04 234.6823 01/05/07 31/10/07
- 600,000 - 82,620 682,620 07/04/05 159.0917 07/04/08 06/04/12
2,549,375 600,000 - 433,666 3,583,041
S Keating 20,918 - - 2,879 23,797 14/09/99 689.0919 14/09/02 13/09/09
15,000 - - 2,065 17,065 17/10/00 1626.0760 17/10/03 16/10/10
20,000 - - 2,754 22,754 13/09/01 598.5717 13/09/04 12/09/11
300,000 - - 41,310 341,310 24/09/02 107.2331 24/09/05 23/09/12
300,000 - - 41,310 341,310 23/09/03 238.1981 23/09/06 22/09/13
- 300,000 - 41,310 341,310 07/04/05 159.0917 07/04/08 06/04/12
655,918 300,000 - 131,628 1,087,546
J A P McKenna 104,594 - - 14,402 118,996 14/10/97 155.9700 14/10/00 13/10/07
104,594 - - 14,402 118,996 17/09/98 329.0834 17/09/01 16/09/08
130,742 - - 18,003 148,745 14/09/99 689.0919 14/09/02 13/09/09
2,690 - (2,690) - - 15/09/99 627.1884 01/02/05 31/07/05
58,379 - - 8,038 66,417 17/10/00 1626.0760 17/10/03 16/10/10
1,621 - - 223 1,844 17/10/00 1626.0760 17/10/03 16/10/10
100,000 - - 13,770 113,770 13/09/01 598.5717 13/09/04 12/09/11
300,000 - - 41,310 341,310 24/09/02 107.2331 24/09/05 23/09/12
300,000 - - 41,310 341,310 23/09/03 238.1981 23/09/06 22/09/13
- 300,000 - 41,310 341,310 07/04/05 159.0917 07/04/08 06/04/12
1,102,620 300,000 (2,690) 192,768 1,592,698
Total 4,307,913 1,200,000 (2,690) 758,062 6,263,285
* Options and awards granted pursuant to the LogicaCMG share plans were adjusted on
9 October 2005. following the company’s rights issue in accordance with the
option/award number ratio of 1.13770 and the option price of 0.87896. The
adjustment factors have been approved by the relevant tax authorities in the UK and
the company’s auditors.
No directors exercised share options during the period 1 January to 31 December 2005.
The performance criteria for options granted by Logica in 1996, 1997, 1998 and in March
and June 1999 require growth in Earnings Per Share (EPS) to exceed the growth in UK
Retail Price Index (UK RPI) by an average of 7 per cent per annum for the relevant three-
year performance period. For options granted in September 1999, 2000, 2001 and March
2002, the performance criteria require growth in EPS to exceed the growth in UK RPI by an
average of 12 per cent per annum for the relevant three-year performance period.  
The performance conditions for options granted in September 2002, March and September
2003, March and September 2004 and April, May and September 2005, require that the
growth in the group’s EPS over the relevant three-year period, should exceed the growth in
UK RPI over that period by an average of at least 7 per cent per annum for the options to
vest in full. However, if the average EPS growth during the performance period exceeds UK
RPI growth by 3 per cent, 20 per cent of the options will vest. For average EPS growth
during the performance period that exceeds UK RPI growth by between 3 per cent and 7
per cent per annum, the options will vest on a sliding scale between 20 per cent and 100
per cent. For average EPS growth below UK RPI growth plus 3 per cent per annum, no
options will be exercisable.  
In the event that the performance condition is not achieved on maturity of the option, the
performance condition for options granted in March and September 2003 will be subject to
retesting on a maximum of two occasions. Options granted in March and September 2004
will be subject to retesting on one occasion only, namely the fourth anniversary of the date
of grant with the retesting period starting from the date of grant of the option. Options
granted in April, May and September 2005 will not be subject to any retesting.
The performance conditions for share options awarded in 1996, 1997, 1998 and March 
and June 1999 have been met. The performance conditions for share options granted in
September 1999, March, October and December 2000, February and September 2001,
and March and September 2002 have not yet been met.
The market price of the shares at 31 December 2005 was 177.25 pence (31 December 
2004 - 192.75 pence) and the range during the period 1 January to 31 December 2005
was 138 pence to 202 pence.
The company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which is open to inspection, contains 
full details of directors’ shareholdings and options to subscribe.
At 31 December 2005, the Logica Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust owned 6,936,685
shares. On 5 January, 19 January, 2 February and 17 February 2006, the holding of the
Trust reduced by 493, 523, 1,269 and 24,669 respectively, following the exercise of options
by employees. M P Read, S Keating, and J A P McKenna hold options in the trust.
C J M Stutterheim has a general interest in the 1,247,821 shares held by the CMG Stichting
Pensioenfonds in the Netherlands as a result of his deferred membership of this scheme. 
Options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the company held by directors are as follows (this information has been audited) P38 Report of the remuneration committee  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
LogicaCMG’s total shareholder return index compared to Dow Jones STOXX Technology Index
This graph (which is unaudited) shows the value, by the end of 2005, of £100 invested in the company in June 2001 compared with the value of £100
invested in the Dow Jones STOXX Technology Index. Prior to the merger of Logica and CMG in December 2002, the graph tracks an investment in shares in
Logica plc.
To produce a ‘fair value’ each point is a 30-day average of the return index. The Dow Jones STOXX Technology Index has been used as the comparator
as it is a broad-based and recognised index of companies in the LogicaCMG’s business sector.
£
LogicaCMG
Dow Jones STOXX 
Technology return
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
31 Dec
2002
30 Jun
2001
30 Jun
2002
31 Dec
2003
31 Dec
2004
31 Dec
2005
Source: Perfect Analysis/
Watson Wyatt LLP
Additional holding 
Shares held at following the Shares held at 
1 January 2005 rights issue 31 December 2005
M P Read 63,817 31,908 95,725
S Keating 11,789 5,894 17,683
J A P McKenna 19,913 9,956 29,869
Matching Matching shares Matching shares Matching shares 
Performance shares held at awarded during adjusted following the held at
Award date period end 1 January 2005 the year rights issue 31 December 2005
M P Read 8 April 2004 2007 24,750 - 3,408 28,158
S Keating 8 April 2004 2007 16,025 - 2,206 18,231
J A P McKenna 19 November 1998 2001 13,503 - 1,859 15,362
Awards have a seven-year exercise period following a three-year performance period.
The performance condition approved by Logica shareholders in 1998 was that growth in
Earnings Per Share (EPS) should be a minimum of the growth in UK Retail Price Index (UK
RPI) plus 7 per cent per annum for each year of the relevant three-year period for the award
of matched shares to vest in full. Between 20 per cent and 100 per cent of the shares may
be released on a sliding scale providing EPS growth exceeded UK RPI growth plus 5 per
cent per annum in each and every year of the performance period. In the event that EPS
growth failed to achieve UK RPI growth plus 5 per cent in any one year the relevant award
would lapse.  This performance condition was applied to awards granted in 1998 and
1999.
For awards granted in 2000 and 2001, the performance criteria required EPS growth to be
a minimum of UK RPI growth plus 12 per cent per annum in each year of the three-year
period following the date of grant for the award of matched shares to vest in full. Between
20 per cent and 100 per cent of the shares may again be released on a sliding scale
provided EPS growth exceeded UK RPI growth plus 5 per cent per annum.
For awards granted in 2002 and 2004, the performance criteria require that growth in the
group’s EPS over the relevant three-year period should exceed the growth in UK RPI over
that period by an average of at least 7 per cent per annum for the matching shares to vest
in full. If the average EPS growth during the performance period exceeds the growth in UK
RPI by between 3 per cent and 7 per cent per annum, the matching shares will vest on a
sliding scale between 20 per cent and 100 per cent. If the group’s average performance is 3
per cent per annum, only 20 per cent of the matching award will become exercisable. For
average growth below 3 per cent per annum, no matching awards will be exercisable.
The performance condition for the award granted in 1998 was fully satisfied. The minimum
performance conditions for the matching awards granted in 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002
were not satisfied and therefore failed to vest.
Shares purchased through the Executive Equity Partnership Plan 1998 (this information has been audited)
The shares purchased by the executive directors through the Executive Equity Partnership Plan are shown in the table below, together with the company
matching award. The shares purchased by the executive directors are included in the directors’ interests table on page 36. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Independent auditor’s report  P39
Independent auditors’ report
Independent auditors’ report to the
members of LogicaCMG plc
We have audited the group financial
statements of LogicaCMG plc for the year
ended 31 December 2005, which comprise
the consolidated income statement, the
consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated
cash flow statement, the consolidated
statement of recognised income and expense
and the related notes. These group financial
statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent
company financial statements of LogicaCMG
plc for the year ended and on the information
in the directors’ remuneration report that is
described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the
annual report and the group financial
statements in accordance with applicable law
and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European
Union are set out in the statement of directors’
responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial
statements in accordance with relevant legal
and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This
report, including the opinion, has been
prepared for and only for the company’s
members as a body in accordance with
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and
for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this
opinion, accept or assume responsibility for
any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose
hands it may come save where expressly
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the
group financial statements give a true and fair
view and whether the group financial
statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report
to you if, in our opinion, the directors’ report is
not consistent with the group financial
statements, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law
regarding director’s remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance
statement reflects the company’s compliance
with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code specified for our review by
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not. We are
not required to consider whether the board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks
and controls, or form an opinion on the
effectiveness of the group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and 
control procedures.
We read other information contained in the
annual report and consider whether it is
consistent with the audited group financial
statements. The other information comprises
only the chairman’s statement, the chief
executive’s report, the operating and financial
review, the directors’ report, the corporate
social responsibility statement and the
corporate governance statement. We consider
the implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the group
financial statements. Our responsibilities do not
extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a
test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the group financial
statements. It also includes an assessment of
the significant estimates and judgments made
by the directors in the preparation of the group
financial statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the
group’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to
obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the group financial
statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or
other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the
presentation of information in the group
financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the group financial statements give a true
and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union, of the state
of the group’s affairs as at 31 December
2005 and of its profit and cash flows for the
year then ended; and 
• the group financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered
Auditors
London
29 March 2006 P40 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Note
Continuing operations:
Revenue 4
Net operating costs 5
Operating profit
Analysed as:
Operating profit before exceptional items
Profit on property sale and leaseback 6
Property reorganisation expense 6
Restructuring costs 6
Loss on disposal of business 6
Operating profit
Interest payable 8
Interest receivable 9
Share of post-tax profits from associates
Profit before tax 10
Taxation 11
Profit for the year from continuing operations
Discontinued operation:
Loss from discontinued operation 12
Net profit for the year
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
Minority interests
Earnings per share *
– Basic 14
– Diluted 14
Earnings per share from continuing operations *
– Basic 14
– Diluted 14
*Restated for the bonus element of the rights issue that took place in November 2005.
1,658.4
(1,579.8)
78.6
98.2
–
–
(17.8)
(1.8)
78.6
(20.3)
5.4
–
63.7
(28.8)
34.9
(9.7)
25.2
24.6
0.6
25.2
2004
£’m
2005
£’m
p/share
7.4
7.4
7.4
7.4
p/share
2.9
2.9
4.1
4.1
1,834.1
(1,714.0)
120.1
120.7
6.5
(7.1)
–
–
120.1
(24.2)
7.5
2.2
105.6
(36.0)
69.6
–
69.6
66.6
3.0
69.6
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
Cash flow hedges:
– losses on cash flow hedges taken to equity 
– transferred to carrying amount of investment in associate
Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans
Tax on items taken directly to equity
Net income / (expense) recognised directly in equity
Profit for the year
Total recognised income and expense for the year
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
Minority interests
Effects of changes in accounting policies
Attributable to equity holders of the parent - increase in retained earnings
Attributable to minority interests
(8.0)
–
–
(18.3)
9.4
(16.9)
25.2
8.3
7.7
0.6
8.3
–
–
–
2004
£’m
2005
£’m
6.4
(1.2)
1.2
12.0
(4.2)
14.2
69.6
83.8
81.5
2.3
83.8
0.8
–
0.8
Details of dividends paid and proposed are disclosed in note 13. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P41
Consolidated balance sheet
31 December 2005
Note
Non-current assets
Goodwill 15
Other intangible assets 16
Property, plant and equipment 17
Investments in associates and joint ventures 18
Other investments 18
Retirement benefit assets 33
Deferred tax assets 25
Current assets
Inventories 19
Trade and other receivables 20
Current tax assets
Cash and cash equivalents 30
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 12
Current liabilities
Convertible debt 22
Other borrowings 22
Trade and other payables 21
Current tax liabilities
Provisions 24
Liabilities associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale 12
Net current assets
Total assets less current liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 22
Retirement benefit obligations 33
Deferred tax liabilities 25
Provisions 24
Other non-current liabilities
Net assets
Equity
Share capital 26
Share premium account 27
Other reserves 28
Total shareholders’ equity
Minority interests
Total equity
357.3
9.1
76.5
–
8.5
6.5
33.3
491.2
1.1
567.0
39.4
104.9
712.4
3.2
715.6
(211.2)
(27.1)
(365.2)
(27.9)
(13.6)
(645.0)
(3.0)
(648.0)
67.6
558.8
(66.6)
(79.1)
(45.3)
(6.2)
(1.0)
(198.2)
360.6
75.1
707.3
(424.1)
358.3
2.3
360.6
2004
£’m
2005
£’m
383.4
25.3
102.5
305.5
9.2
15.3
36.0
877.2
2.4
649.2
21.2
245.3
918.1
–
918.1
(205.0)
(18.5)
(450.8)
(14.2)
(6.7)
(695.2)
–
(695.2)
222.9
1,100.1
(117.9)
(77.9)
(56.3)
(8.3)
(1.0)
(261.4)
838.7
114.6
1,084.8
(379.3)
820.1
18.6
838.7
The consolidated financial statements on pages 40 to 87 were approved by the board of directors on 29 March 2006 and were signed on its
behalf by:
Dr M P Read
S Keating
Directors
29 March 2006 P42 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Note
Cash flows from operating activities
Net cash inflow from trading operations
Cash inflow from non-recourse financing
Cash outflow related to property reorganisation expense
Cash outflow related to restructuring activities
Cash generated from operations 29
Interest paid
Income tax paid
Net cash inflow from operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Purchases of property, plant and equipment
Expenditure on intangible assets
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired
Acquisition of investment in an associate
Disposal of investment in joint venture
Disposal of business
Net cash outflow from investing activities
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of new shares
Proceeds from sale of nil paid rights / treasury shares by ESOP trusts
Purchase of treasury shares by ESOP trusts
Proceeds from bank borrowings
Repayments of bank borrowings
Repayments of finance lease principal
Repayments of borrowings assumed in acquisitions
Repayments of other borrowings
Dividends paid to the company’s shareholders
Dividends paid to minority interests
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from financing activities
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 30
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
Effect of foreign exchange rates
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 30
119.6
5.0
–
(23.7)
100.9
(16.9)
(26.2)
57.8
2.0
3.0
(25.2)
(5.0)
(0.5)
–
0.4
–
(25.3)
1.5
0.1
–
24.4
(36.9)
(3.6)
–
(1.3)
(41.9)
(2.0)
(59.7)
(27.2)
134.7
(27.2)
(0.9)
106.6
2004
£’m
2005
£’m
180.8
–
(0.8)
(13.0)
167.0
(20.2)
(29.9)
116.9
3.5
10.6
(30.2)
(7.1)
(37.2)
(266.8)
–
(1.1)
(328.3)
391.2
1.9
(1.9)
242.8
(225.6)
(3.7)
(11.3)
(0.5)
(43.5)
(0.9)
348.5
137.1
106.6
137.1
1.6
245.3 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P43
1. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as
adopted by the European Union (‘EU’) at 31 December 2005, and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 that remain applicable to
companies reporting under IFRS, for the first time. The disclosures required by IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards’ are provided in note 38.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items which are
measured at fair value, as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
Transitional arrangements
The accounting policies have been applied to all periods presented except for those relating to the recognition, measurement, disclosure and
presentation of financial instruments, all matters dealt with IAS 32 and IAS 39. The group has taken an exemption to apply IAS 32 and IAS
39 from 1 January 2005. Prior to this date, financial instruments have been accounted for under UK GAAP. A reconciliation of equity on
adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 January 2005 is provided in note 38.
In addition, the group has taken the following optional exemptions contained in IFRS 1 in preparing the group’s balance sheet on transition to
IFRS at 1 January 2004:
• Business combinations – IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ has been applied prospectively from 1 January 2004.
• Cumulative translation differences – the cumulative translation differences for all operations have been set to zero at 1 January 2004 and
exchange differences arising prior to this date will not be recycled to the income statement.
The group’s policy for share-based payments has been applied to equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 and that had
not vested on or before 31 December 2004.
Adoption of new or revised standards prior to their effective date
The group has adopted the amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ issued on 16 December 2004 prior to their effective date of 1
January 2006. The amendments permit the group to recognise actuarial gains and losses in full through the statement of recognised income
and expense, and expands the disclosures required in respect of the group’s defined benefit pension schemes.
The group has adopted the amendments to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ issued on 16 June 2005 prior to their
effective date of 1 January 2006. The amendments permit the group to designate a financial instrument with one or more embedded derivatives
as a financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or loss, with certain exceptions. The group has adopted the amendment early and
has designated the 2.875 per cent 2008 convertible bonds at fair value through profit or loss with effect from 1 January 2005.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include those of LogicaCMG plc (‘the company’) and all of its subsidiary undertakings (together, 
‘the group’), and the group’s share of the results of associates and joint ventures. Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted
for using the equity method.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled directly or indirectly by the company. Control arises when the company has the ability to
direct the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition or up to the date 
of disposal respectively, using the same accounting policies as those of the group. All business combinations are accounted for using the
purchase method.
On acquisition, the interest of any minority shareholders is stated at the minority’s proportion of the fair value of the assets and liabilities
recognised. Subsequently, the minority interest in the consolidated balance sheet reflects the minority’s proportion of changes in the net
assets of the subsidiary. A minority interest is not recognised in a subsidiary with net liabilities except to the extent that the minority has a
binding obligation, and is able to make an additional investment, to cover cumulative losses.
All intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale in the balance sheet if their carrying amount will be recovered through 
a sale transaction rather than ongoing use but only if the sale is highly probable and is expected to complete within one year from the date of
classification. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less
costs to sell.
The results of an operation that represents a separate major line of business and either has been disposed of during the period or is
classified as held for sale, are classified as discontinued operations. The post-tax profit or loss of the discontinued operation plus the post-
tax gain or loss recognised on the measurement of the assets and liabilities within the disposal group at fair value less costs to sell, is
presented as a single amount on the face of the income statement. P44 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Intangible assets
All intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill 
is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the group’s interest in the identifiable assets, liabilities and
contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination. Goodwill previously written off directly to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1 July
1998 has not been reinstated and is not recycled to the income statement on the disposal of the business to which it relates.
Development costs
Expenditure incurred in the development of software products or enhancements, and their related intellectual property rights, is capitalised as
an intangible asset only when the future economic benefits expected to arise are deemed probable and the costs can be reliably measured.
Development costs not meeting these criteria, and all research costs, are expensed in the income statement as incurred. Capitalised
development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives once the related software product or enhancement 
is available for use.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised at
cost and amortised over their useful economic life. Intangible assets acquired through a business combination are initially measured at fair
value and amortised over their useful economic lives.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. The cost of an item
of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into use.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to write down the assets to their estimated residual value over their useful economic lives at
the following rates:
Furniture 10 – 20% Computer equipment 25 – 33%
Partitions and office equipment 10 – 20% Motor vehicles 25%
Freehold property 2% Leasehold equipment and plant Life of lease
The residual values and useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually. Freehold land and properties under
construction are not depreciated. Borrowing costs related to the purchase of fixed assets are not capitalised.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as property, plant and equipment at an amount equal to the fair value of the leased
assets or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease, and then depreciated over their useful
economic lives. Lease payments are apportioned between repayment of capital and interest. The capital element of future lease payments is
included in the balance sheet as a liability. Interest is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the
remaining balance of the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Operating lease
incentives are recognised as a reduction in the rental expense over the lease term.
Impairment of assets
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purposes of impairment testing. The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit 
to which the goodwill relates is tested annually for impairment or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment, investments measured using a cost basis and intangible assets other than goodwill are
reviewed for impairment only when events indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
In an impairment test, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit or asset is estimated to determine the extent of any impairment
loss. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value in use to the group. An impairment loss is recognised 
to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
In determining a cash-generating unit’s or asset’s value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-
tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the cash-generating unit or asset
that have not already been included in the estimate of future cash flows. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P45
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Inventories
Inventories represent computer equipment that, at the balance sheet date, had not yet been allocated to a specific customer contract and
materials, including work-in-progress, used in document printing and finishing.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs
and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value
represents the estimated selling price less costs to be incurred in marketing, distribution and sale.
Amounts recoverable on contracts
Amounts recoverable on contracts represent revenue which has not yet been invoiced to customers on fixed price contracts. Such amounts
are separately disclosed within trade and other receivables. The valuation of amounts recoverable on contracts is adjusted to take up profit
to date or foreseeable losses in accordance with the group’s accounting policy for profit recognition.
Financial instruments
The following policies for financial instruments have been applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. For those
policies that have changed on adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005, policies both before and after adoption are given.
Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of preparation of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand, and short-term
deposits with an original maturity period of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are an integral part of a subsidiary’s cash management
are included in cash and cash equivalents where they have a legal right of set-off against positive cash balances, otherwise bank overdrafts
are classified as borrowings.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at amounts receivable less any provision for recoverability. A trade or other receivable is derecognised
from the balance sheet when the group enters into a financing transaction which transfers to a third party all significant rights or other access
to benefits relating to that asset, and all significant exposures to the risks inherent in that asset.
Non-recourse financing (1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004)
For non-recourse financing arrangements that did not meet the criteria for financial asset derecognition, a linked presentation has been
adopted where criteria, set out in the UK accounting standard FRS 5 ‘Reporting the substance of transactions’, were met. Under a linked
presentation, the financing was shown as a deduction from the gross amount of the financial asset to which it related either on the face of
the balance sheet or, if not material to the balance sheet, in the notes to the financial statements.
Non-recourse financing (1 January 2005 onwards) 
A linked presentation is not permissible under IAS 32 and IAS 39. Financing of trade or other receivables shown under a linked presentation
prior to 1 January 2005 have been treated as borrowings on and after that date.
Borrowings (1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004)
Borrowings, including convertible debt, were recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. The finance costs of debt
were allocated to financial periods and charged to the income statement over the term of the borrowings at a constant rate on the carrying
amount. Accrued finance costs were included in accruals rather than in the carrying amount of the borrowing to the extent that they were
due to be paid in cash within one year.
Conversion of debt was not anticipated and the finance cost of convertible debt was calculated on the basis that the debt would never be
converted. The carrying value of convertible debt was stated separately from that of other borrowings on the face of the balance sheet.
Borrowings (1 January 2005 onwards)
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated either at amortised
cost or, if designated as such, at fair value through profit or loss.
For borrowings stated at amortised cost, any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is
recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
The group’s euro-denominated convertible bonds have been designated as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss. The change 
in the fair value of the convertible bonds that reflects the movement in the quoted market price of the convertible bonds is recognised in the
income statement as either interest income or expense. The change in fair value relating to the movement of the exchange rate between the
euro and pounds sterling is treated as a hedge of net investments in foreign operations (see below). Foreign exchange gains and losses on
the convertible bonds are taken directly to equity to the extent that the hedge is effective. P46 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities (1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004)
The group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk. The group considered these financial
instruments to be hedges when the following criteria were met:
• the financial instruments must have been related to a specific foreign currency asset or liability that is probable and whose characteristics
have been identified;
• it must have involved the same currency as the hedged item; and
• it must have reduced foreign currency risk on the group’s operations.
Gains and losses on hedges of existing assets and liabilities were included in the carrying amount of those assets or liabilities and recognised
in the income statement. Gains and losses on qualifying hedges or firm commitments or anticipated transactions were classified as deferred
and recognised in the income statement or as adjustments in the carrying amount of the transaction when it occurred. Gains and losses on
financial instruments that did not qualify as hedges were recognised as other income or expense.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities (1 January 2005 onwards)
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. The fair
values of derivatives are measured using observable market prices or, where market prices are not available, by using discounted expected
future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and exchange rates. The gain or loss on re-measurement is taken to the income statement
except where the derivative is part of a designated cash flow hedge or a designated hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or
forecasted transaction are recognised directly in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of a cash flow hedge is recognised
immediately in the income statement.
If the cash flow hedge results in the recognition of an asset or liability, then the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had
previously been recognised in equity are included in the measurement of the asset or liability at the time the asset or liability is recognised.
For cash flow hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the income
statement in the same period as the underlying transaction occurs.
Where the group hedges net investments in foreign entities through currency borrowings or derivative financial instruments, the gains or
losses on the translation of the borrowings or change in fair value of the derivative are recognised in equity. Gains and losses accumulated in
equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are not designated as a hedging instrument or do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Taxation
Current tax is recognised based on the amounts expected to be paid or recovered under the tax rates and laws that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences that arise between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and their corresponding tax bases. Liabilities are recorded on all temporary differences except in respect of investments in
subsidiaries and joint ventures where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that 
it will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can 
be offset.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the
balance sheet date.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly to equity,
in which case the tax is also dealt with directly in equity.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised for restructuring costs when the group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been
communicated to affected employees. Provisions are recognised for future committed property lease payments when the group receives no
benefit from the property through continuing usage and future receipts from any sub-letting arrangements are not in excess of the group’s
future committed payments.
Where the time value of money is material, provisions are measured at the present value of expenditures expected to be paid in settlement. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P47
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Foreign currencies
The presentation currency of the group is pounds sterling. The group also presents primary statements in euros, see pages 101 to 103.
Items included in the separate financial statements of group entities are measured in the functional currency of each entity. Transactions
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of the entity at the rates prevailing at the dates of the individual
transactions. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange gains
and losses arising are charged or credited to the income statement within net operating costs.
The income statement and balance sheet of foreign entities are translated into pounds sterling on consolidation at the average rates for the
period and the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date respectively. Exchange gains and losses arising on the translation of the group’s net
investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised as a separate component of
shareholders’ equity. On disposal of a foreign entity, the cumulative translation differences are recycled to the income statement and
recognised as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and
translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
The most important foreign currency for the group is the euro. The relevant exchange rates to pounds sterling were:
2005 2004
Average Closing Average Closing
£1 = € 1.46 1.46 1.47 1.41
Government grants 
Grants related to assets are recognised initially as deferred income and subsequently credited to the income statement on the same basis
that the related assets are depreciated. Grants related to income are credited to the income statement over the periods necessary to match
them with the related costs which they are intended to compensate.
Revenue and profit recognition
Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or receivable from clients for goods and services provided by the group, net of
discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Where the time value of money is material, revenue is recognised as the present value of the
cash inflows expected to be received from the customer in settlement.
Revenue from the sale of software products or hardware with no significant service obligation is recognised 100 per cent on delivery.
Revenue from the sale of software products or hardware requiring significant modification, integration or customisation is recognised using
the percentage of completion method.
The revenue and profit of contracts for the supply of professional services at predetermined rates is recognised as and when the work 
is performed, irrespective of the duration of the contract.
The revenue and profit of fixed price contracts is recognised on a percentage of completion basis when the outcome of a contract can be
estimated reliably. A contract’s outcome is usually deemed to be capable of reliable estimation at the earlier of six months from contract
commencement and the date at which 50 per cent of the total estimated costs of professional services have been incurred. If a contract
outcome cannot be estimated reliably, revenues are recognised equal to costs incurred, to the extent that costs are expected to be
recovered. The stage of contract completion is usually determined by reference to the cost of professional services incurred to date as a
proportion of the total estimated cost of professional services.
Provision is made for all foreseeable future losses.
Segment reporting
At 31 December 2005, LogicaCMG is organised into two business segments: IT services and telecoms products. The telecoms products
business segment was previously referred to as the wireless networks business segment. These two business segments are the group’s
primary reporting format for segment information as they represent the dominant source and nature of the group’s risks and returns. The
group’s secondary reporting format is by geographical area.
Inter-segment sales are charged at arms’ length prices. Segment assets include all intangible assets, property, plant and equipment,
inventories, trade and other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents but exclude tax assets. Segment liabilities comprise mainly trade 
and other payables, retirement benefit obligations and certain borrowings that can be attributed to the segment but exclude tax liabilities 
and borrowings that are for general corporate purposes. Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets. P48 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Employee benefits
Retirement benefits
The group operates retirement benefit plans of both a defined contribution and defined benefit nature. Retirement benefit plans that are
funded by the payment of insurance premiums are treated as defined contribution plans unless the group has an obligation either to pay the
benefits directly when they fall due or to pay further amounts if assets accumulated with the insurer do not cover all future employee benefits.
In such circumstances, the plan is treated as a defined benefit plan.
The cost of defined contribution plans is charged to the income statement on the basis of contributions payable by the group during 
the year.
For defined benefit plans, the defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit
method. The retirement benefit liability in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced by the
fair value of plan assets and unrecognised past service cost. A retirement benefit asset is recognised to the extent that the group can benefit
from refunds or a reduction in future contributions.
Insurance policies are treated as plan assets of a defined benefit plan if the proceeds of the policy:
• can only be used to fund employee benefits;
• are not available to the group’s creditors; and
• either cannot be paid to the group unless the proceeds represent surplus assets not needed to meet all the benefit obligations or are 
a reimbursement for benefits already paid by the group.
Insurance policies that do not meet the above criteria are treated as non-current investments and are held at fair value in the balance sheet.
The current service cost is recognised in the income statement as an employee benefit expense. The interest cost, resulting from the
increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation over time and the expected return on plan assets, is recognised as net interest
expense or income. The expected return on plan assets is, for UK defined benefit pension schemes, shown net of an expected reduction for
payments to the Pension Protection Fund (the ‘PPF levy’). The difference between the actual and expected PPF levy is treated as an actuarial
gain or loss.
A past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that benefits are already vested, or is otherwise amortised on a straight-line basis
over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments or changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited in the statement
of recognised income and expense in the period in which they arise.
Share-based payment
The cost of share-based employee compensation arrangements, whereby employees receive remuneration in the form of shares or share
options, is recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement.
The total expense to be apportioned over the vesting period of the benefit is determined by reference to the fair value at the grant date of the
shares or share options awarded and the number that are expected to vest. The assumptions underlying the number of awards expected to
vest are subsequently adjusted to reflect conditions prevailing at the balance sheet date. At the vesting date of an award, the cumulative
expense is adjusted to take account of the awards that actually vest.
Short-term compensated absences
A liability for short-term compensated absences, such as holiday, is recognised for the amount the group may be required to pay as a result 
of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the balance sheet date.
Death-in-service benefits
Insured death-in-service benefits are accounted for as defined contribution arrangements. Death-in-service benefits for which the group does
not have insurance cover are accounted for as defined benefit arrangements.
Employee share ownership trusts
Employee share ownership plan (‘ESOP’) trusts, which purchase and hold ordinary shares of the company in connection with certain
employee share schemes, are consolidated in the group financial statements. Any consideration paid or received by ESOP trusts for the
purchase or sale of the company’s own shares is shown as a movement in shareholders’ equity.
Dividends
Dividends to the company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability and deducted from shareholders’ equity in the period in which the
shareholders’ right to receive payment is established. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P49
2. Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards, interpretations and amendments thereto were issued but not yet
mandatorily effective for the group.
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’)
• IFRS 6 ‘Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources’
• IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) interpretations
• IFRIC 4 ‘Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease’
• IFRIC 5 ‘Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds’
• IFRIC 6 ‘Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market - Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment’
• IFRIC 7 ‘Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’
• IFRIC 8 ‘Scope of IFRS 2’
• IFRIC 9 ‘Reassessment of embedded derivatives’
Amendments to existing standards
• Amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ - Capital disclosures
• Amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ - Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures
• Amendment to IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’ - Net Investment in a Foreign Operation
• Amendments to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement' - Cash flow hedge accounting of forecast intra-group transactions, 
The Fair Value Option
• Amendments to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ 
• Amendments to IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’ and IFRS 6 ‘Exploration for and Evaluation 
of Mineral Resources’
All the IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and amendments to existing standards had been adopted by the EU at the date of approval of these consolidated
financial statements with the following exceptions: IFRIC 7, IFRIC 8, IFRIC 9 and the amendment to IAS 21. The group has adopted early certain
amendments to existing standards, details of which are provided in note 1.
The directors anticipate that the future adoption of those standards, interpretations and amendments listed above that have not been adopted early will
not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements, with the possible exception of IFRIC 4. IFRIC 4 contains guidance for determining
whether arrangements are, or contain, leases that should be accounted for in accordance with IAS 17 ‘Leases’. The effective date of IFRIC 4 is for
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006. The directors are considering the applicability of IFRIC 4 to the group’s outsourcing arrangements
but the impact that adoption of this interpretation will have is not yet known with certainty.
3. Key areas of estimation uncertainty
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management has to make judgements on how to apply the group’s accounting policies and make
estimates about the future. The critical judgements that have been made in arriving at the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements
and the key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities in
the next financial year, are discussed below.
Revenue and profit recognition
The revenue and profit of fixed price contracts is recognised on a percentage of completion basis when the outcome of a contract can be estimated
reliably. Management exercises judgement in determining whether a contract’s outcome can be estimated reliably. Management also makes estimates of
the total cost of professional services, or in some instances total contract costs, which are used in determining the value of amounts recoverable on
contracts. Estimates are continually revised based on changes in the facts relating to each contract. The carrying amount of amounts recoverable on
contracts is disclosed in note 20.
Impairment of goodwill
The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires an estimate to be made of the value in use of the cash-generating units to
which goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation includes estimates about the future financial performance of the cash-generating units,
including management’s estimates of long-term operating margins and long-term growth rates. The carrying amount of goodwill and the key
assumptions used in the calculation of value in use of CGUs to which goodwill is attributed are disclosed in note 15.
Defined benefit plans
The calculation of the defined benefit obligation of a defined benefit plan requires estimation of future events, for example salary and pension increases,
inflation and mortality rates. In the event that future experience does not bear out the estimates made in previous years, an adjustment will be made to
the plan’s defined benefit obligation in future periods which could have a material effect on the group. The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
relating to defined benefit plans, together with the key assumptions used in the calculation of the defined benefit obligations relating to those plans are
disclosed in note 33.
Income taxes 
In recognising income tax assets and liabilities, management makes estimates of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and
events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain. Where the final outcome of such matters is different, or expected to be different, from previous
assessments made by management, a change to the carrying value of income tax assets and liabilities will be recorded in the period in which such a
determination is made. The carrying values of income tax assets and liabilities are disclosed separately in the consolidated balance sheet. P50 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
4. Segment information
Primary basis – business segments
2005
Total
Telecoms continuing
IT services products operations
£’m £’m £’m
Revenue 1,579.4 254.7 1,834.1
Segment operating profit 107.3 12.8 120.1
Analysed as:
Operating profit before exceptional items 106.8 13.9 120.7
Profit on property sale and leaseback 6.5 – 6.5
Property reorganisation expense (6.0) (1.1) (7.1)
Operating profit 107.3 12.8 120.1
Interest payable (24.2)
Interest receivable 7.5
Share of post-tax profits from associates 2.2
Profit before tax 105.6
Taxation (36.0)
Profit after tax 69.6
2004
Total
Telecoms continuing
IT services products operations
£’m £’m £’m
Revenue 1,421.1 237.3 1,658.4
Segment operating profit / (loss) 82.0 (3.4) 78.6
Analysed as:
Operating profit / (loss) before exceptional items 99.8 (1.6) 98.2
Restructuring costs (17.8) – (17.8)
Loss on disposal of business – (1.8) (1.8)
Operating profit / (loss) 82.0 (3.4) 78.6
Interest payable (20.3)
Interest receivable 5.4
Profit before tax 63.7
Taxation (28.8)
Profit after tax 34.9
The results of the discontinued operation are included in note 12. The share of post-tax profits from associates in the year ended 31
December 2005 was attributable to the IT services business segment.
2005
Total
Telecoms continuing
IT services products operations
£’m £’m £’m
Capital expenditure 33.8 3.9 37.7
Depreciation 23.5 6.9 30.4
Amortisation 3.7 2.2 5.9
Other non-cash expenses 5.5 0.8 6.3
2004
Total
Telecoms continuing
IT services products operations
£’m £’m £’m
Capital expenditure 22.3 7.6 29.9
Depreciation 18.2 9.2 27.4
Amortisation 1.7 3.4 5.1
Other non-cash expenses 4.8 0.8 5.6 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P51
4. Segment information (continued)
2005
Telecoms Group
IT services products Unallocated (all operations)
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Segment assets 1,207.7 224.9 – 1,432.6
Investments in associates 305.5 – – 305.5
Unallocated assets – – 57.2 57.2
Total assets 1,513.2 224.9 57.2 1,795.3
Segment liabilities (455.7) (89.0) – (544.7)
Unallocated liabilities – – (411.9) (411.9)
Total liabilities (455.7 (89.0) (411.9) (956.6)
2004
Telecoms Group
IT services products Unallocated (all operations)
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Segment assets 938.6 195.5 – 1,134.1
Unallocated assets – – 72.7 72.7
Total assets 938.6 195.5 72.7 1,206.8
Segment liabilities (402.3) (65.8) – (468.1)
Unallocated liabilities – – (378.1) (378.1)
Total liabilities (402.3) (65.8) (378.1) (846.2)
The group manages the IT services business segment on a geographic basis. Additional voluntary disclosures, not required under IFRS, 
are provided below for the revenue and operating result before exceptional items of the geographic sub-divisions within the IT services
business segment.
Operating profit / (loss)
Revenue before exceptional items
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’m £’m £’m £’m
United Kingdom 712.0 679.3 80.4 79.1
Netherlands 409.6 367.9 37.9 34.9
Germany 78.8 91.9 (11.8) (14.8)
France 116.7 113.9 (4.9) (3.9)
Iberia * 88.0 – 5.9 – 
Rest of Europe 60.3 69.9 (6.3) 2.1
Rest of World 114.0 98.2 5.6 2.4
1,579.4 1,421.1 106.8 99.8
* The Iberia category represents the Edinfor business acquired in April 2005.
The comparative information in the table above has been amended to include Belgium within the Rest of Europe category. This has resulted 
in a reclassification of revenue of £28.9 million, and an operating loss of £0.1 million, to the Rest of Europe category from the Netherlands
(formerly Benelux) category.
Secondary format – geographical segments
The following table provides an analysis of the group’s revenues by geographical market based on the location of the customer rather than the
country of origin of the goods and/or services.
2005 2004
£’m £’m
United Kingdom 689.5 672.8
Netherlands 414.8 367.4
Germany 94.0 106.9
France 151.9 116.6
Iberia 79.4 21.3
Rest of Europe 142.5 152.5
Rest of World 262.0 220.9
Continuing operations 1,834.1 1,658.4
Discontinued operation 1.8 11.4
Total group 1,835.9 1,669.8
For the group’s discontinued operation, £1.7 million of revenue was attributable to the Rest of World segment (2004: £11.1 million), with the
remainder attributable to the Rest of Europe segment. P52 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
4. Segment information (continued)
The following table provides an analysis of segment assets and capital expenditure by geographical location of assets for all operations.
Segments assets Capital expenditure
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’m £’m £’m £’m
United Kingdom 543.1 500.6 18.5 12.3
Netherlands 240.4 203.5 4.8 7.4
Germany 101.4 105.3 1.3 2.6
France 43.1 35.5 0.2 0.3
Iberia * 141.2 – 4.5 – 
Rest of Europe 109.8 98.2 1.1 1.1
Rest of World 253.6 191.0 7.3 6.6
1,432.6 1,134.1 37.7 30.3
* The Iberia category represents the Edinfor business acquired in April 2005.
Analysis of revenue by category
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Continuing operations:
Sales of goods 290.4 293.2
Revenues from services 1,543.7 1,365.2
1,834.1 1,658.4
Discontinued operation:
Revenues from services 1.8 11.4
1,835.9 1,669.8
Revenue from continuing operations above included £1,111.9 million which related to contracts accounted for under the percentage-of-
completion method (2004: £1,027.4 million). All revenues from the discontinued operation related to contracts accounted for under the
percentage-of-completion method.
5. Net operating costs
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Materials and other external charges 602.4 516.2
Employee benefits expense 902.1 859.9
Depreciation 30.4 27.4
Amortisation 5.9 5.1
Property reorganisation expense 7.1 –
Profit on sale and leaseback (6.5) – 
Restructuring costs – 17.8
Loss on disposal of business – 1.8
Other operating expenses 172.6 151.6
1,714.0 1,579.8
6. Exceptional items
The group disposed of two long leasehold office buildings in the United Kingdom in December 2005 for net proceeds of £8.3 million,
simultaneously entering into an operating leaseback, generating a profit on disposal of £6.5 million. The United Kingdom and telecoms
products businesses incurred an expense for vacated property, early lease terminations and related transactions costs of £7.1 million for
property reorganisation activities conducted in the second half of 2005.
In 2004, the group incurred a charge of £16.2 million relating to the restructuring of the business in Germany. The restructuring comprised 
a substantial reduction in headcount together with other measures to reduce the cost base. In addition, a restructuring charge of £1.6 million
was incurred in France.
The group disposed of its investment in the MiGWay messaging joint venture with Teledenmark on 17 December 2004. The disposal resulted
in the receipt of £0.4 million as consideration for the transaction and a loss on disposal of £1.8 million. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P53
7. Employees
Year end Average
2005 2004 2005 2004
Number Number Number Number
United Kingdom 5,951 6,124 6,079 6,068
Netherlands 5,719 5,796 5,776 5,725
Germany 1,185 1,207 1,139 1,500
France 1,504 1,489 1,523 1,488
Iberia * 1,366 – 893 – 
Rest of Europe 877 839 854 840
Rest of World 3,132 2,459 2,658 2,121
IT services 19,734 17,914 18,922 17,742
Telecoms products 1,606 1,781 1,657 1,909
21,340 19,695 20,579 19,651
* The Iberia category represents the Edinfor business acquired in April 2005.
The comparative information in the employee numbers tables above has been amended to include Belgium within the Rest of Europe category. 
This has resulted in a reclassification of the average number of employees and the number of employees at the balance sheet date of 340 and 326
respectively to the Rest of Europe category from the Netherlands (formerly Benelux) category.
The employee benefits expense for the year amounted to:
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 737.4 707.9
Social security costs 111.8 99.0
Pension costs (note 33) 46.6 47.4
Share-based payments (note 32) 6.3 5.6
902.1 859.9
Employee benefit expense of £14.1 million relating to the year ended 31 December 2004 has not been included in the table above but was
included within the £17.8 million charge for restructuring costs in note 5 above.
8. Interest payable
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Finance leases 0.5 0.5
Bank loans and overdrafts 14.3 8.2
Project financing – 1.5
Convertible bonds 6.8 7.0
Retirement benefit schemes 1.0 0.5
Other 1.6 2.6
24.2 20.3
Interest of £1.2 million related to non-recourse project financing has been presented as interest from bank loans in the year ended 
31 December 2005, following the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005. The interest on convertible bonds for the year ended 
31 December 2005 included £0.9 million relating to their mark-to-market movement following designation as a liability at fair value through
profit or loss effective from 1 January 2005.
9. Interest receivable
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Bank interest 3.6 1.3
Unwinding of discount on trade receivables 3.5 3.4
Other 0.4 0.7
7.5 5.4 P54 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
10. Profit before tax
The following items have been included in arriving at profit before tax:
2005 2004
£’m £’m
(Profit) / loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (6.4) – 
Research and development expenditure 25.5 37.7
Trade receivables impairment 1.4 0.6
Exchange (gains) / losses (5.7) 3.7
The group received a Regional Selective Assistance grant from the Welsh Assembly in February 2004 to aid with the development of the
group’s outsourcing facilities at Bridgend, Wales. Under the terms of the grant, the group received £1.9 million in cash during the year 
(2004: £3.5 million). During the year ended 31 December 2005, £1.7 million (2004: £1.8 million) was credited in arriving at profit before tax.
Auditors’ remuneration
The following table shows an analysis of fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the group’s auditors.
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Audit services
– statutory audit 1.9 1.2
– audit-related regulatory reporting 0.2 0.1
– IFRS transition 0.6 0.5
Audit services * 2.7 1.8
Tax services
– compliance services 0.2 0.5
– advisory services 0.7 0.5
Other services 1.7 0.2
Non-audit services ^ 2.6 1.2
Total auditors’ remuneration 5.3 3.0
* Included in the group audit fees and expenses paid to the group’s auditor was £0.5 million (2004: £0.3 million) in respect of the parent company.
^ £2.2 million of non-audit services related to the UK (2004: £0.5 million).
IFRS transition fees of £0.6 million (2004: £0.5 million) related principally to work carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, in their capacity
as group auditors, on the restatement of financial information under IFRS. Fees for other services in 2005 of £1.7 million arose were incurred in
connection with the acquisition of Unilog and the related rights issue. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P55
11. Taxation
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Current tax:
UK corporation tax 14.8 21.0
Overseas tax 24.6 6.1
39.4 27.1
Deferred tax:
UK corporation tax (2.3) 2.8
Overseas tax (1.1) (1.1)
(3.4) 1.7
Tax charge from continuing operations 36.0 28.8
Tax on loss from discontinued operation for the year – (0.3)
Tax on loss on disposal of operation – (1.4)
Tax charge for the year 36.0 27.1
The tax charge from continuing operations is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The differences are explained below.
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Profit before tax 105.6 63.7
Less: share of post-tax profits from associates (2.2) – 
Profit before tax excluding share of post-tax profits from associates 103.4 63.7
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2004: 30%) 31.0 19.1
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.3) (6.0)
Adjustment for foreign tax rates 5.1 3.3
Tax loss utilisation (4.1) (5.8)
(Income) / expenses not taxable / deductible for tax purposes (5.2) 1.7
Deferred tax assets not recognised 9.5 16.5
Tax charge from continuing operations 36.0 28.8
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, a deferred tax charge of £4.5 million (2004: credit of £5.7 million) relating to
retirement benefit schemes and a deferred tax credit of £0.3 million (2004: £nil) relating to share-based payment arrangements was recognised
directly in equity. In the year ended 31 December 2004, a current tax credit of £3.7 million was recognised directly in equity.
The current tax related to exceptional items in year ended 31 December 2005 was a tax credit of £0.3 million (2004: credit of £0.3 million).
12. Discontinued operation and non-current assets held for sale
At 31 December 2004, the EPPIX billing platform business was classified as held for sale pending disposal of the business in early 2005. The
disposal subsequently completed on 15 March 2005, on which date the control of the business passed to the acquirer. The discontinued
operation was attributable to the telecoms products business segment.
The results of the discontinued operation were as follows:
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Revenue 1.8 11.4
Expenses (1.8) (13.4)
Loss before tax – (2.0)
Tax credit arising on loss before tax – 0.3
Loss on classification as held for sale – (9.4)
Attributable tax credit – 1.4
Loss from discontinued operation – (9.7) P56 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
12. Discontinued operation and non-current assets held for sale (continued)
The major classes of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale at 31 December 2004 were as follows:
2004
£’m
Trade and other receivables 1.5
Cash and cash equivalents 1.7
Total assets classified as held for sale 3.2
Trade and other payables (3.0)
Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale (3.0)
Net assets of disposal group 0.2
At 31 December 2004, assets and associated liabilities held for sale represented the EPPIX billing platform business.
13. Dividends
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005 of 3.2 pence per share, which would reduce
shareholders’ funds by £36.2 million. The proposed dividend is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2006 and has
not been recognised as a liability in these financial statements. The proposed final dividend has been set at a level that reflects the bonus
element of the rights issue that took place in November 2005.
The amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders were as follows:
2005 2004 2005 2004
p / share p / share £’m £’m
Interim dividend, relating to 2005 / 2004 * 2.11 2.02 17.7 16.9
Final dividend, relating to 2004 / 2003 * 3.08 2.99 25.8 25.0
5.19 5.01 43.5 41.9
* Dividends per share have been restated for the bonus element of the rights issue.
Dividends payable to employee share ownership trusts are excluded from the amounts recognised as distributions in the table above.
14. Earnings per share
2005
Weighted
average
number Earnings per
Earnings of shares share
£’m million pence
Earnings per share
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 66.6 898.7 7.4
Basic EPS 66.6 898.7 7.4
Effect of share options – 4.9 – 
Diluted EPS 66.6 903.6 7.4
Adjusted earnings per share
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 66.6 898.7 7.4
Add back:
Exceptional items, net of tax 0.3 – – 
Mark-to-market loss on convertible bonds designated at fair value through profit or loss, net of tax 0.6 – 0.1
Amortisation of intangible assets initially recognised on acquisition, net of tax 0.7 – 0.1
Adjusted basic EPS 68.2 898.7 7.6
Effect of share options – 4.9 – 
Effect of convertible bonds, excluding mark-to-market loss, net of tax 4.2 64.6 (0.1)
Adjusted diluted EPS 72.4 968.2 7.5 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P57
14. Earnings per share (continued)
2004
Weighted
average
number Earnings per
Earnings of shares share
£’m million pence
Earnings per share from all operations
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 24.6 837.7 2.9
Basic EPS 24.6 837.7 2.9
Effect of share options – 4.1 – 
Diluted EPS 24.6 841.8 2.9
Earnings per share from continuing operations
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 24.6 837.7 2.9
Add back / (deduct):
Loss on sale of discontinued operation 9.4 – 1.1
Pre-tax loss from discontinued operation 2.0 – 0.3
Tax relating to discontinued operation (1.7) – (0.2)
Basic EPS from continuing operations 34.3 837.7 4.1
Effect of share options – 4.1 – 
Diluted EPS from continuing operations 34.3 841.8 4.1
Adjusted earnings per share
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 24.6 837.7 2.9
Add back / (deduct):
Loss on sale of discontinued operation 9.4 – 1.1
Pre-tax loss from discontinued operation 2.0 – 0.3
Tax relating to discontinued operation (1.7) – (0.2)
Restructuring costs, net of tax 17.5 – 2.1
Loss on disposal of business 1.8 – 0.2
Adjusted basic EPS 53.6 837.7 6.4
Effect of share options – 4.1 – 
Adjusted diluted EPS 53.6 841.8 6.4
Earnings per share from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2005 was the same as earnings per share from all operations.
The basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to the discontinued operation for the year ended 31 December 2004 was a loss of 1.2
pence per share.
On 19 September 2005, the group announced a rights issue to part fund the proposed acquisition of Unilog. Following the approval of the
required resolutions at the subsequent Extraordinary General Meeting, 375,495,147 new ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued at 
107 pence per share on the basis of 1 new ordinary share for every 2 existing ordinary shares held.
The cum-rights price at the close of trading on 13 October 2005, the last day of trading before the shares were designated ex-rights, was 
168 pence per share. The theoretical ex-rights price for an ordinary share was approximately 147.7 pence per share. The weighted average
number of shares has been adjusted for the bonus element within the rights issue for all periods presented. Earnings per share for the year
ended 31 December 2004 has been restated accordingly.
Adjusted earnings per share, both basic and diluted, have been shown as the directors consider this to be helpful for a better understanding 
of the performance of the group’s underlying business. The earnings measure used in adjusted earnings per share excludes, whenever such
items occur: the results of discontinued operations; exceptional items; mark-to-market gains or losses on financial assets and financial
liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss; and amortisation of intangible assets initially recognised at fair value in a business
combination. All items adjusted are net of tax where applicable.
The weighted average number of shares excludes the shares held by employee share ownership plan (‘ESOP’) trusts, which are treated as
cancelled. The convertible bonds were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2004 as
they were anti-dilutive, however, the convertible bonds are dilutive for the purposes of calculating adjusted diluted earnings per share for the
year ended 31 December 2005.
The impact of the charge for share-based payments was to reduce adjusted basic earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2005
by 0.7 pence per share (2004: 0.7 pence per share). P58 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
15. Goodwill
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Cost and net book amount
At 1 January 357.3 358.6
Additions during the year 25.6 – 
Exchange differences 0.5 (1.3)
At 31 December 383.4 357.3
The additions to goodwill during the year ended 31 December 2005 related to the group’s acquisition of Edinfor S.A. (see note 31), and a 
9.5 per cent increase in stake in Nord IT GmbH, a subsidiary undertaking incorporated in Germany.
Goodwill impairment tests
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to one or more cash-generating units (‘CGUs’). For the IT services business segment,
CGUs represent the operations of a country or, in more material operations, divisions within a country. For the telecoms products business
segment, CGUs represent a product area. The following table shows the allocation of the carrying value of goodwill at the balance sheet date
by business segment and, for the IT services business segment, by geographic area.
2005 2004
£’m £’m
IT services
United Kingdom 167.6 167.6
Netherlands 14.9 15.4
Germany 59.8 60.1
France 10.2 10.2
Iberia 23.9 – 
Rest of Europe 13.9 13.8
Rest of World 61.1 58.2
351.4 325.3
Telecoms products 32.0 32.0
383.4 357.3
The group conducts annual impairment tests on the carrying value of goodwill, based on the recoverable amount of CGUs to which goodwill
has been allocated. The recoverable amounts of CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions in the value in use
calculations are the discount rate applied, the long-term operating margin and the long-term growth rate of net operating cash flows.
In all cases, the approved budget for the following financial year formed the basis for the cash flow projections for a CGU. The approved cash
flow projections in the four financial years following the budget year reflected management’s expectations of the medium-term operating
performance of the CGU and growth prospects in the CGU’s market.
The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre-tax rate that reflects market assessment of the time value of money at the balance sheet
date and the risks specific to the CGU. The discount rate applied to CGUs were in the range of 10.0 per cent (2004: 10.3 per cent) to 15.6
per cent (2004: 14.7 per cent). The weighted average discount rate applied to CGUs in the United Kingdom IT services business was 12.7 per
cent (2004: 13.8 per cent).
The long-term operating margin assumed for a CGU's operations is primarily based on past performance. For some CGUs, those for which
management has strong reason to believe that past operating margins are not indicative of future operating margins, expected future
improvements from sustainable operating cost savings are also included in management’s assessment of the long-term operating margin. 
The long-term operating margin applied to CGUs were in the range of 5.0 per cent (2004: 5.0 per cent) to 10.0 per cent (2004: 14.7 per cent).
The weighted average long-term operating margin applied to CGUs in the United Kingdom IT services business was 10.0 per cent (2004: 11.8
per cent).
Long-term growth rates of net operating cash flows are assumed equal to the long-term growth rate in the gross domestic product of the
country in which the CGU’s operations are undertaken, and were in the range of 1.1 per cent (2004: 0.8 per cent) to 4.8 per cent (2004: 4.7
per cent). The long-term growth rate of net operating cash flows assumed for CGUs in the United Kingdom IT services business was 2.5 per
cent (2004: 2.4 per cent).
At 31 December 2004, goodwill relating to the IT services business in Germany was allocated separately to either one of two CGUs, the
smaller of which represented the operations of Nord IT GmbH and the larger of which represented all other IT services operations in Germany.
Goodwill impairment tests were conducted separately for each CGU. In 2005, following the increase in stake in Nord IT GmbH, goodwill
relating to the IT services business in Germany was combined, with a single impairment test performed for the group of CGUs as a whole. This
reflected the way management run the German business. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P59
15. Goodwill (continued)
At 31 December 2005, the amount by which the value in use of the group of CGUs that represented the IT services business in Germany
exceeded the carrying amount of the group of CGUs was £7.9 million. If the key assumptions used to calculate the value were to change by
the following amounts, with all other assumptions held constant, then the value in use would equal the carrying amount of the group of CGUs
at 31 December 2005:
• if the pre-tax discount rate were to increase from 11.7 per cent to 12.4 per cent; or
• if the long-term operating margin were to decrease from 6.6 per cent to 6.0 per cent; or
• if the long-term growth rate of net operating cash flows were to decrease from 2.1 per cent to 1.3 per cent.
At 31 December 2004, the amount by which the value of the CGU that represented the IT services business in Germany excluding Nord IT
GmbH exceeded the carrying amount of the CGU was £2.8 million. If the key assumptions used to calculate the value in use of the CGU were
to change by the following amounts, with all other assumptions held constant, then the value in use would equal the carrying amount of the
CGU at 31 December 2004:
• if the pre-tax discount rate were to increase from 13.7 per cent to 14.1 per cent; or
• if the long-term operating margin were to decrease from 7.0 per cent to 6.7 per cent; or
• if the long-term growth rate of net operating cash flows were to decrease from 2.1 per cent to 1.6 per cent.
16. Other intangible assets
Purchased
computer Development Brand Customer
software costs names contracts Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 15.1 8.9 – – 24.0
Additions 1.6 3.4 – – 5.0
Disposals (0.8) – – – (0.8)
Exchange differences 0.2 0.2 – – 0.4
At 1 January 2005 16.1 12.5 – – 28.6
Additions 1.5 5.6 – – 7.1
Acquisition of subsidiary 4.4 – 4.0 6.1 14.5
Disposals (0.8) – – – (0.8)
Exchange differences 0.7 (0.4) – –  0.3
At 31 December 2005 21.9 17.7 4.0 6.1 49.7
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2004 8.4 6.5 – – 14.9
Charge for the year 2.7 2.4 – –  5.1
Disposals (0.8) – – – (0.8)
Exchange differences 0.2 0.1 – – 0.3
At 1 January 2005 10.5 9.0 – – 19.5
Charge for the year 3.5 1.4 0.5 0.5 5.9
Disposals (0.5) – – – (0.5)
Exchange differences (0.1) (0.4) – – (0.5)
At 31 December 2005 13.4 10.0 0.5 0.5 24.4
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 2005 8.5 7.7 3.5 5.6 25.3
At 31 December 2004 5.6 3.5 – –  9.1
The most material individual intangible asset acquired with Edinfor, which represented the value attributed to the outsourcing contracts
between Edinfor and Energias de Portugal, had a carrying value of £5.1 million at 31 December 2005. The amortisation period of the asset is
10 years of which 9.3 years was remaining at the balance sheet date.
Development costs represent internally generated intangible assets. Purchased computer software, brand names and customer contract intangible
assets represent assets bought from third parties either as discrete purchases or as part of a business combination. P60 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
17. Property, plant and equipment 
Freehold Leasehold
land and property and Equipment
buildings improvements and plant Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 1.0 43.9 198.2 243.1
Additions 7.3 2.3 15.8 25.4
Disposals (0.8) (0.1) (18.1) (19.0)
Reclassified as held for sale – – (1.3) (1.3)
Exchange differences – – 0.6 0.6
At 1 January 2005 7.5 46.1 195.2 248.8
Additions 3.1 7.2 20.3 30.6
Acquisition of subsidiary 8.6 6.4 14.6 29.6
Disposals – (4.2) (24.3) (28.5)
Exchange differences 0.1 0.4 (2.4) (1.9)
At 31 December 2005 19.3 55.9 203.4 278.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2004 0.2 17.6 142.0 159.8
Charge for the year – 3.9 23.7 27.6
Disposals (0.2) – (15.1) (15.3)
On assets reclassified as held for sale – – (0.7) (0.7)
Exchange differences – – 0.9 0.9
At 1 January 2005 – 21.5 150.8 172.3
Charge for the year 0.7 5.2 24.5 30.4
Disposals – (2.2) (21.9) (24.1)
Exchange differences – 0.1 (2.6) (2.5)
At 31 December 2005 0.7 24.6 150.8 176.1
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 2005 18.6 31.3 52.6 102.5
At 31 December 2004 7.5 24.6 44.4 76.5
Equipment and plant included assets held under finance leases with a net book value of £4.1 million (2004: £4.4 million). Additions to
equipment and plant during the year amounting to £0.4 million (2004: £1.6 million) were financed by new finance leases.
18. Investments
The carrying value of the group's investments in joint ventures and associates at 31 December is shown below:
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Joint ventures – –
Associates 305.5 –
305.5 –
Investments in associates £’m
At 1 January 2005 – 
Acquired through business combinations 0.6
Block trade purchase of shares in Unilog 209.7
Increase in stake in Unilog 91.8
Share of post-tax profits of associates 2.2
Exchange differences 1.2
At 31 December 2005 305.5
At 31 December 2005, the group’s principal investment in associates comprised a 46.8 per cent economic interest in the ordinary shares 
of Unilog S.A. (‘Unilog’), a company incorporated in France. The group held no investments in associates during the year ended 
31 December 2004. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P61
18. Investments (continued)
A ‘block trade’ purchase of a 32.3 per cent economic interest in the ordinary shares of Unilog was made from certain members of its senior
management on 25 October 2005 for the issue of 19,572,703 new ordinary shares of 10 pence each in LogicaCMG plc, the fair value of which
was 143.5p per share, and cash consideration of £172.5 million. This transaction was followed by subsequent market purchases during
November and December 2005, increasing the group’s economic interest by 14.5 per cent for an additional cost of £91.8 million. The total
cost of investment of £301.5 million included £9.1 million of attributable transaction expenses and losses on cash flow hedges. Due to the
existence of shares with double voting rights not held by the group, the group’s economic interest in Unilog of 46.8 per cent equated to
ownership of 39.9 per cent of the voting rights. On 13 January 2006, the group acquired a controlling interest in Unilog following the results of
a public tender offer. Further information is disclosed in note 37.
The interest in Unilog has been accounted for under the equity method in accordance with the group’s accounting policy for associates. 
At 31 December 2005, Unilog was a publicly traded company on Euronext Paris. The fair value of the group’s investment in Unilog was 
£296.4 million based on the mid-market price on 31 December 2005 and the closing exchange rate of €1.46 to £1.
Summarised information in respect of associates at 31 December is provided below on a 100 per cent interest basis and, where relevant, after
provisional fair value adjustments.
2005
£’m
Assets 340.8
Liabilities (261.5)
Revenue * 95.3
Net profit * 5.9
* Amounts relating to Unilog relate to the period from 25 October to 31 December 2005.
Investments in joint ventures £’m
At 1 January 2004 1.1
Disposals (1.1)
At 31 December 2004 – 
Other investments
At 31 December 2005, the group’s other investments of £9.2 million (2004: £8.5 million) comprised the fair value of insurance contracts held to
fund defined benefit pension and life assurance arrangements, further details of which are provided in note 33.
Details of the company’s principal subsidiary undertakings and associates are shown in the notes to the company’s financial statements 
on page 94.
19. Inventories
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Computer equipment not allocated to a customer contract 0.3 1.1
Materials used in document printing and finishing 2.1 – 
2.4 1.1
The directors estimate that the carrying value of inventories approximated their fair value. P62 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
20. Trade and other receivables
2005 2004
£’m £’m £’m
Trade debtors 329.0 269.8
Less: provision for impairment (7.0) (4.3)
Trade debtors – net 322.0 265.5
Amounts recoverable on contracts 223.8 233.0
Less: amounts subject to non-recourse financing (20.8)
212.2
Prepayments and accrued income 79.3 73.8
Derivative financial instruments 2.1 – 
Other debtors 22.0 15.5
649.2 567.0
Amounts recoverable on contracts included amounts due for settlement after more than one year of £48.6 million at 31 December 2005 (2004:
£24.1 million).
Amounts recoverable on contracts at 31 December 2004 have been shown gross less a deduction for amounts subject to non-recourse
financing arrangements. On 1 January 2005, upon adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, amounts subject to non-recourse financing were
reclassified as borrowings.
The group’s credit risk on trade and other receivables is primarily attributable to trade debtors and amounts recoverable on contracts. 
The amounts presented in the table above are net of allowances for doubtful recoverability and foreseeable losses and represented the 
group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables. The group has no significant concentrations of credit risk since 
the risk is spread over a large number of unrelated counterparties.
The directors estimate that the carrying value of financial assets within trade and other receivables approximated their fair value.
Contracts accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method
2005 2004
Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date: £’m £’m
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 3,681.7 2,812.6
Less: progress billings (3,554.6) (2,655.5)
127.1 157.1
Recognised as:
Amounts due from contract customers included in trade and other receivables 223.8 233.0
Amounts due to contract customers included in trade and other payables (96.7) (75.9)
127.1 157.1
21. Trade and other payables
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Trade creditors 88.6 73.7
Payments received on account on contracts 96.7 75.9
Accruals 122.8 96.1
Social security and other taxes 70.8 62.7
Derivative financial instruments 0.3 – 
Other creditors 71.6 56.8
450.8 365.2
The directors estimate that the carrying value of trade and other payables approximated their fair value. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P63
22. Borrowings
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Current
Bank overdrafts – 0.4
Bank loans 15.5 24.0
2.875% 2008 convertible bonds 205.0 211.2
Finance lease obligations 2.6 2.2
Loan notes 0.4 – 
Other borrowings – 0.5
223.5 238.3
Non-current
Bank loans 115.7 63.7
Finance lease obligations 2.2 2.5
Loan notes – 0.4
117.9 66.6
The maturity profile of borrowings is as follows:
2005 2004
£’m £’m
On demand or within one year 223.5 238.3
In one to two years 6.7 2.8
In two to five years 111.2 63.8
341.4 304.9
Bank loans
At 31 December 2005, the group had two principal bank loans:
• a £330 million multi-currency, syndicated revolving credit facility maturing on 19 September 2010. The facility was entered into on 19
September 2005 and refinanced a pre-existing £330 million facility on substantially the same terms. At 31 December 2005, drawings under
the facility carried an interest rate of 1.1 per cent over LIBOR (2004: 0.875 per cent above LIBOR)
•a €348 million (£238 million) term loan maturing on 19 September 2010. The facility was also entered into on 19 September 2005 and was
made available solely for the purpose of the acquisition of shares in Unilog and payment of associated transaction costs. The term loan was
undrawn at 31 December 2005.
The obligations of the borrowers under both bank loans are guaranteed by the principal UK and Dutch trading subsidiaries, LogicaCMG UK Limited and
LogicaCMG Nederland B.V .
Convertible bonds
The convertible bonds bear a fixed coupon rate of 2.875 per cent per annum, payable annually in arrears, and were issued at par value of €303.4
million on 19 September 2003. Each €1,000 principal amount of a bond is convertible into one 2.875 per cent exchangeable redeemable
preference shares of the issuer, LogicaCMG (Jersey) Limited, with paid-up value of €1,000 that will, in turn, be exchangeable immediately for
ordinary shares of LogicaCMG plc.
The bonds can be converted by the holders at any time between 29 October 2003 and up to 14 days prior to 19 September 2008. The number of
ordinary shares into which the bonds are convertible is determined by translating the principal amount into pounds sterling at a fixed exchange rate of
€1.44862 to £1 and then dividing by the prevailing exchange price. The exchange price is the price at which the sterling-equivalent par value of the 2.875
per cent exchangeable redeemable preference shares is converted into ordinary shares of the company. The initial exchange price on issue was 372.53
pence per share. Following the rights issue in November 2005, the exchange price was revised to 324.0 pence per share to reflect the bonus element of
the rights issue.
The bond issuer may, at its option, redeem the bonds at any time from 3 October 2006 if the company’s share price is greater than 140 per cent of the
prevailing exchange price on at least 20 dealing days during a period of 30 consecutive dealing days, or, at any time, if 85 per cent or more of the
principal amount of the bonds have been previously converted or purchased and cancelled. At 31 December 2005, the bond holders held rights over the
allotment of 64,635,376 (2004: 56,215,236) ordinary shares of LogicaCMG plc.
The convertible bonds were designated as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss with effect from 1 January 2005, prior to this date the
bonds were held at amortised cost. The change in the carrying value of the convertible bonds from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2005 was a net
reduction of £6.3 million, of which an increase of £0.9 million was attributable an increase in their underlying fair value and a decrease of £7.2 million was
attributable to changes in exchange rate between euros and pounds sterling. The change in underlying fair value not attributable to changes in 12 month
EURIBOR was an increase of £2.4 million. At maturity, the group would be contractually required to repay €303.4 million (£207.8 million) compared to a
fair value on 31 December 2005 of €299.3 million (£205.0 million).
IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ requires that liabilities should be classified as current when the entity does not have an unconditional right to
defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date. The convertible bonds are potentially exchangeable into ordinary
shares of the company at any time up to 14 days prior to 19 September 2008. Accordingly, the convertible bonds have been classified as a current
liability even though settlement may ultimately not occur until the redemption date of 19 September 2008. P64 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
22. Borrowings (continued)
Finance lease obligations 
The minimum lease payments under finance leases, and their present value, fell due as follows:
Minimum Present value of
lease payments minimum lease payments
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Within one year 2.8 2.5 2.6 2.2
In two to five years 2.3 2.6 2.2 2.5
In more than five years – 0.1 – – 
5.1 5.2 4.8 4.7
Future finance charges (0.3) (0.5)
Present value of lease obligations 4.8 4.7
The group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ titled to the leased assets.
All borrowings
Bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes and other borrowings, bear floating rates of interest based on LIBOR or foreign equivalents appropriate
to the country in which the borrowing is incurred, and thus expose the group to cash flow interest rate risk. The convertible bonds and finance
lease obligations bear fixed rates of interest and therefore expose the group to fair value interest rate risk.
The weighted average effective interest rate on borrowings at the balance sheet date was as follows:
2005
%
Bank loans 5.0
Finance lease obligations 5.1
Convertible bonds 2.9
Loan notes 3.7
The mark-to-market movement in the convertible bonds recognised as either interest expense or interest income has not been included 
in calculating the effective interest rate on the convertible bonds in the table above.
An analysis of borrowings at the balance sheet date by the earlier of maturity or, for floating rate borrowings, the earliest contractual repricing
date was as follows:
2005
£’m
On demand or within one year 333.7
In one to two years 6.6
In two to three years 1.1
In three to four years – 
In four to five years – 
In more than five years – 
341.4
All borrowings are denominated in the borrowing entity’s functional currency except for the convertible bonds and certain amounts drawn
down under the revolving credit facility. Borrowings not denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing company are designated 
as hedges of net investments in foreign operations (see note 23) and therefore only expose the group to income statement foreign currency
risk to the extent that the hedge is ineffective. 
The directors have estimated the fair value of the group’s borrowings as follows:
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Bank overdrafts – 0.4
Bank loans 135.9 89.0
Finance lease obligations 4.8 4.7
Convertible bonds 205.0 211.3
Loan notes 0.4 0.4
Other borrowings – 0.5
346.1 306.3
Fair value has been estimated by discounting the cash flows relating to borrowings at the market rate at the balance sheet date or, for the
quoted instruments, by reference to the prevailing market price and exchange rate at the balance sheet date. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P65
23. Financial instruments
Financial risk management
The multi-national nature of the group’s operations and their financing expose it to a variety of financial risks. The principal risks that the 
group is exposed to are foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk. The group’s policies with respect to managing
those risks in both the current and prior year are set out below. The group does not undertake any trading or speculative activity in financial
instruments. The group operates within policies and procedures that are formally approved by the board, which include strict controls on the
use of financial instruments in managing the group’s risks.
Foreign exchange risk
The group has operations in many countries worldwide, exposing the group to foreign exchange risk on the translation of the income
statement and balance sheet of foreign operations into pounds sterling. Operations are also subject to foreign exchange risk from committed
transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency and, once recognised, the revaluation of foreign currency
denominated assets and liabilities.
The translation of the balance sheets of overseas operations has been substantially hedged by managing the currency mix of the group’s
borrowings. The group uses both euro and US dollar borrowings to hedge the balance sheet translation of operations with the euro and 
US dollar as their functional currency. The group does not hedge the foreign exchange risk relating to the translation of the income statements
of overseas operations.
To mitigate foreign exchange risk arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than an entity’s functional currency, amounts 
not denominated in the functional currencies are hedged economically by means of forward contracts or currency overdrafts.
Interest rate risk
The group's policy is to fund its operations through a mixture of retained earnings, equity and debt. Careful consideration is given to the
appropriate split of debt and equity to ensure acceptable levels of liquidity and interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is then further managed 
by holding a portion of the group's borrowings at fixed rates of interest. At 31 December 2005, the group had £221.0 million (2004: 
£215.9 million) of fixed rate borrowings out of total borrowings of £341.4 million (2004: £304.9 million).
Liquidity risk
The group’s policy is to maintain sufficient headroom to meet its foreseeable financing requirements. Substantial committed facilities are
maintained with a syndicate of leading international banks. At 31 December 2005, the group had committed floating rate bank facilities of
£568.4 million (2004: £330.0 million) of which £114.6 million (2004: £65.0 million) had been drawn down. The highest amount drawn down on
these facilities during 2005 was £237.5 million (2004: £120.0 million).
Derivative financial instruments
The following table shows the value and type of derivative financial instruments recognised as separate assets and liabilities in the balance
sheet at 31 December.
2005
Assets Liabilities
£’m £’m
Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.1 (0.3)
The principal currencies of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at 31 December 2005 were the euro and the US dollar. The
notional amounts outstanding at that date were €172.9 million (net buying) and $93.1 million (net selling).
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
The group has both euro and US dollar borrowings which it has designated as a hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries in eurozone
countries and the United States. On 1 January 2005, the designated borrowings comprised the 2.875 per cent 2008 convertible bonds. 
The euro and US dollar amounts drawn down under the group’s £330 million revolving credit facility were designated as additional hedging
instruments during 2005. The fair value of the designated euro borrowings at 31 December 2005 was £253.6 million (1 January 2005: 
£211.3 million) and of the US dollar borrowings was £15.9 million (1 January 2005: £nil). The foreign exchange gain of £5.2 million relating to
these borrowings in the year ended 31 December 2005 has been recognised directly in the translation reserve.
Cash flows hedges
During the year ended 31 December 2005, the group designated a portfolio of purchased foreign currency options as cash flow hedges of
payments to acquire an associate interest in Unilog. The options were designated as a hedge of the value of the consideration payments,
which were denominated in euros. All the options expired prior to the balance sheet date. The change in the fair value of the options, a loss of
£1.2 million, was recognised initially in the hedging reserve and then recycled to the carrying amount of the associate investment in Unilog as
consideration payments were made during the year. At 31 December 2005, the group had no designated cash flow hedges.  
2004 comparative information under FRS 13
The group has taken an exemption available in IFRS 1 to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 January 2005 and to apply UK GAAP to 2004
comparative information for financial instruments. The following additional disclosures for 2004 are provided to comply with the requirements of
FRS 13 ‘Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures’ where such disclosure is not provided elsewhere in these consolidated
financial statements. Trade receivables, trade payables, current tax assets and liabilities, and current provisions have been excluded from the
disclosures, as permitted by the standard. 23. Financial instruments (continued)
Interest rate risk
The interest rate risk profile of the group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2004 was as follows:
Financial Financial
liabilities on Floating Fixed assets on Floating Fixed
which no rate rate which no rate rate
interest is financial financial interest is financial financial
paid liabilities liabilities receivable assets assets Total
Currency £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Sterling (5.9) (88.1) (0.9) 24.8 23.1 – (47.0)
Euro (0.3) (0.5) (215.0) 8.0 39.5 5.2 (163.1)
Other currencies – (0.4) – 11.0 16.5 2.6 29.7
(6.2) (89.0) (215.9) 43.8 79.1 7.8 (180.4)
Financial liabilities on which no interest is paid related to non-current provisions, all other financial liabilities in the table above relate to
borrowings. Financial assets on which no interest is receivable included £24.1 million of amounts recoverable on contracts due in more 
than one year, all other financial assets related to cash and cash equivalents (including £1.7 million presented within non-current assets
classified as held for sale).
Floating rate financial liabilities bore interest at rates, based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents, which are fixed in advance for periods of
between one day and six months. The weighted average period until maturity for floating rate financial liabilities on which interest is paid was
39 months at 31 December 2004.
Fixed rate financial liabilities at 31 December 2004 represented amounts outstanding on convertible bonds and finance lease obligations. 
The average interest rate on fixed rate liabilities was 2.9 per cent. The weighted average period for which rates were fixed on these financial
liabilities was 44 months.
Financial assets generally earn interest at a floating rate based on relevant national LIBID equivalents or government bonds fixed in advance 
for periods ranging from one day to one month. To ensure immediate access without material interest rate penalty, group cash and liquid
resources were primarily invested on a floating rate basis throughout 2004.
Hedges
The table below shows the extent to which the group had unrecognised gains and losses in respect of financial instruments used as economic
hedges at the beginning and the end of the 2004 financial year. It also shows the amount of such gains and losses which have been included
in the income statement for 2004 and those gains and losses which are expected to be included in the income statement for the year ended
31 December 2005, or later years.
Total net
Gains Losses gains / losses
£’m £’m £’m
Unrecognised gains and losses at 1 January 2004 3.8 (1.2) 2.6
Gains and losses arising in previous periods that were recognised in 2004 3.8 (1.2) 2.6
Gains and losses arising before 1 January 2004 that were not recognised in 2004 – – –
Gains and losses arising in 2004 that were not recognised in 2004 3.0 (3.5) (0.5)
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 31 December 2004 3.0 (3.5) (0.5)
Of which:
Gains and losses expected to be recognised in 2005 3.0 (3.5) (0.5)
P66 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P67
24. Provisions 
Vacant
properties Restructuring Other Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2005 11.2 6.5 2.1 19.8
Charged in the year 6.5 0.5 1.0 8.0
Utilised in the year (4.6) (6.3) (2.7) (13.6)
Acquisition of subsidiary – – 1.1 1.1
Exchange differences (0.1) (0.2) – (0.3)
At 31 December 2005 13.0 0.5 1.5 15.0
Analysed as:
Current liabilities 6.7
Non-current liabilities 8.3
15.0
Vacant properties
Provisions for vacant properties represent residual lease commitments, together with associated outgoings, for the remaining period or certain
property leases, after taking into account sub-tenant arrangements. The property costs provided for are mainly on properties located in the
United Kingdom. At 31 December 2005, non-current vacant property provisions amounted to £8.3 million of which £4.9 million was payable
within five years and the balance thereafter.
Restructuring
The restructuring provision related to redundancy costs to be incurred following the cost reduction programme in Germany announced in July
2004 and the restructuring in France in the same year. Both provisions had been substantially utilised by 31 December 2005.
25. Deferred tax
Property,
plant and Intangible Retirement
equipment assets benefits Tax losses Goodwill Other Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2004 2.6 (0.8) 11.9 3.3 – (3.1) 13.9
(Charge) / credit to profit or 
or loss for the year (0.9) – (0.2) 3.4 (1.3) (2.7) (1.7)
(Charge) / credit to equity – – 5.7 – – – 5.7
Reclassification from current tax –––– (28.7) – (28.7)
Exchange differences 0.1 – 0.6 0.4 – (2.3) (1.2)
At 31 December 2004 1.8 (0.8) 18.0 7.1 (30.0) (8.1) (12.0)
Adoption of IAS 32 / 39 – – – – – (0.5) (0.5)
At 1 January 2005 1.8 (0.8) 18.0 7.1 (30.0) (8.6) (12.5)
(Charge) / credit to profit or 
or loss for the year 0.9 (0.2) (0.2) (1.2) 1.4 2.7 3.4
(Charge) / credit to equity – – (4.5) – – 0.3 (4.2)
Reclassification from current tax –––– (7.9) – (7.9)
Acquisition of subsidiary 0.9 0.6 – – – (1.5) – 
Exchange differences – – 0.1 0.2 1.0 (0.4) 0.9
At 31 December 2005 3.6 (0.4) 13.4 6.1 (35.5) (7.5) (20.3)
The deferred tax liability for goodwill arises as temporary deductions are allowed for tax purposes in certain territories.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the group intends to settle the balances 
on a net basis. An analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes is shown in the table below:
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Deferred tax assets 36.0 33.3
Deferred tax liabilities (56.3) (45.3)
(20.3) (12.0)
At 31 December 2005, the group had unused tax losses of £170.6 million (2004: £191.4 million) available for offset against future taxable
profits for which no deferred tax asset had been recognised. At 31 December 2005, £25.4 million (2004: £19.8 million) of the losses are
subject to time expiry rules and will expire in full on or before 31 December 2022.
No deferred tax liability was recognised in respect of the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the group is in a position to control
the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The
group has estimated that tax of £16.4 million (2004: £11.1 million) would arise in respect of remitting all earnings of overseas subsidiaries to
the United Kingdom to the extent legally possible. P68 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
26. Share capital of LogicaCMG plc
2005 2004
Authorised £’m £’m
1,750,000,000 (2004: 1,100,000,000) ordinary shares of 10p each 175.0 110.0
2005 2004
Allotted, called-up and fully paid Number £’m Number £’m
At 1 January 750,915,581 75.1 749,846,818 75.0
Allotted under share option schemes 255,221 – 1,068,763 0.1
Allotted to acquire associate interest in Unilog 19,572,703 2.0 – – 
Rights issue 375,495,147 37.5 – – 
At 31 December 1,146,238,652 114.6 750,915,581 75.1
The company has one class of authorised and issued share capital, comprising ordinary shares of 10 pence each. Subject to the company’s
Articles of Association and applicable law, the company’s ordinary shares confer on the holder: the right to receive notice of and vote at
general meetings of the company; the right to receive any surplus assets on a winding-up of the company; and an entitlement to receive any
dividend declared on ordinary shares. The authorised share capital was increased by 650,000,000 ordinary shares at the Extraordinary General
Meeting on 13 October 2005.
On 25 October 2005, the company issued 19,572,703 shares as part of a transaction to acquire approximately 32.3 per cent of the ordinary
share capital of Unilog. The company subsequently issued 375,495,147 new ordinary shares of 10 pence each issued in a fully underwritten 
1 for 2 rights issue to part fund the public tender offer for the remaining 67.7 per cent of Unilog ordinary shares. Dealings in rights issue
shares, fully paid, commenced on Euronext Amsterdam on 4 November 2005 and on the London Stock Exchange on 7 November 2005. 
The proceeds from the rights issue were £388.7 million, net of expenses of £13.1 million, of which £37.5 million was credited to share capital
and £351.2 million was credited to the share premium account.
27. Share premium
2005 2004
£’m £’m
At 1 January 707.3 705.9
Premium on shares allotted under share option schemes 0.2 1.4
Premium on shares allotted to acquire associate interest in Unilog 26.1 – 
Rights issue, net of expenses 351.2 – 
At 31 December 1,084.8 707.3
28. Other reserves
Retained Treasury Translation Hedging
earnings shares reserve reserve Other Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2004 (361.0) (36.0) – – 1.3 (395.7)
Net profit for the year 24.6 – – – – 24.6
Dividends paid (41.9) – – – – (41.9)
Share-based payment 5.7 – – – – 5.7
Actuarial losses (18.3) – – – – (18.3)
Disposal of own shares – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Tax on items taken to equity 9.4 – – – – 9.4
Exchange differences – – (9.4) – 1.4 (8.0)
At 31 December 2004 (381.5) (35.9) (9.4) – 2.7 (424.1)
Adoption of IAS 32 and 39 0.8 – – – – 0.8
At 1 January 2005 (380.7) (35.9) (9.4) – 2.7 (423.3)
Net profit for the year 66.6 – – – – 66.6
Dividends paid (43.5) – – – – (43.5)
Share-based payment 5.9 – – – – 5.9
Actuarial gains 12.7 – – – – 12.7
Sale of nil paid rights – 1.9 – – – 1.9
Purchase of own shares – (1.9) – – – (1.9)
Tax on items taken to equity (4.2) – – – – (4.2)
Exchange differences – – 10.0 – (3.5) 6.5
Cash flow hedges
– losses in the year – – – (1.2) – (1.2)
– transferred to investments – – – 1.2 – 1.2
At 31 December 2005 (343.2) (35.9) 0.6 – (0.8) (379.3) LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P69
28. Other reserves (continued)
Treasury shares
The group holds treasury shares in three discretionary trusts which were set up for the benefit of LogicaCMG employees. The trusts purchase
the company’s shares in the market for use in connection with the group’s share-based payment arrangements. The amounts shown in the
treasury shares reserve at 31 December each year would be deducted in determining the distributable profits of the company at that date.
At 31 December 2005, the employee trusts owned 15,741,068 ordinary shares (2004: 13,993,706) with a nominal value of £1.6 million (2004:
£1.4 million). The trustees of the CMG ESOP Trust and the Logica ESOP Trust have agreed to waive the right to future dividends on ordinary
shares held by the trusts except for a nominal amount. At 31 December 2005 and 2004, the nominal amount payable to both trusts was
0.001 pence per share. Following the announcement of the rights issue in September 2005, the trusts sold their rights to subscribe for
ordinary shares and re-invested the proceeds in the market purchase of ordinary shares of the company.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve represents the accumulated exchange differences arising from the following sources:
• the impact of the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than pounds sterling; and
• exchange differences arising on hedging instruments that are designated hedges of a net investment in foreign operations, net of tax 
where applicable.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve contains the accumulated gains and losses on hedging instruments that are a designated cash flow hedge less amounts
recycled to the income statement or into the carrying value of hedged assets or liabilities.
29. Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Operating profit:
Continuing operations 120.1 78.6
Discontinued operation – (2.0)
120.1 76.6
Adjustments for:
Share-based payment expense 6.3 5.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 30.4 27.6
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (6.4) – 
Amortisation of intangible assets 5.9 5.1
Net movements in provisions (5.9) (5.2)
Derivative financial instruments (2.2) – 
Defined benefit plans (1.2) (1.0)
26.9 32.1
Movements in working capital:
Inventories 0.1 2.0
Trade and other receivables (11.5) 0.2
Trade and other payables 31.4 (10.0)
20.0 (7.8)
Cash generated from operations 167.0 100.9
Add back: cash outflow related to property reorganisation expense 0.8 – 
Add back: cash outflow related to restructuring activities 13.0 23.7
Less: proceeds from non-recourse financing – (5.0)
Net cash inflow from trading operations 180.8 119.6
The cash flows from the discontinued operation were not material for the group and accordingly have not been presented separately. 
The reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations in the table above represents the activities of both continuing and
discontinued operations. P70 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
30. Reconciliation of movements in net debt
At Acquisitions Other At
1 January and non-cash Exchange 31 December
2005 Cash flows disposals* movements differences 2005
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Cash and cash equivalents 106.6 137.1 – – 1.6 245.3
Bank overdrafts (0.4) 0.4 – – – – 
Finance leases (4.7) 3.7 (3.3) (0.5) – (4.8)
Bank loans (108.5) (17.6) (1.6) (1.4) (2.1) (131.2)
Other loans (0.9) 11.8 (11.3) – – (0.4)
Convertible bonds (211.3) – – (0.9) 7.2 (205.0)
Net debt (219.2) 135.4 (16.2) (2.8) 6.7 (96.1)
* Excludes cash and cash equivalents assumed on acquisition or disposed of through sale of businesses, amounting to £6.0 million and £1.4 million respectively.
The group’s net debt at 31 December 2004 was £198.3 million. The impact of the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 was to increase group 
net debt by £20.9 million to £219.2 million. The increase comprised a reclassification of £20.8 million from trade and other receivables 
to bank loans relating to non-recourse financing arrangements previously shown under a linked presentation, and an increase in the value 
of convertible bonds of £0.1 million to reflect their fair value.
The increase in the value of convertible bonds of £0.1 million comprised a reclassification of the accrual for coupon interest of £1.7 million from
trade and other payables, and a reduction of £1.6 million taken to equity on adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005.
The cash and cash equivalents balance of £106.6 million at 1 January 2005 in the table above included £1.7 million of cash and cash
equivalents which are shown in the consolidated balance sheet within non-current assets classified as held for sale. 
Cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date comprised:
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Cash at bank and in hand 135.1 104.8
Short-term deposits 110.2 1.8
Cash and cash equivalents 245.3 106.6
Cash and cash equivalents were invested on a floating rate basis and were therefore subject to cash flow interest rate risk. The directors
estimate that the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximated their fair value.
The group’s credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties are well-established banks with high credit ratings.
Included in cash and cash equivalents were overdrafts that were part of cash pooling arrangements for which a legal right of off-set existed
against positive cash balances that were of an equal or greater amount at the balance sheet date. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P71
31. Acquisition of subsidiary
On 20 April 2005, the group acquired 60 per cent of the voting rights of Edinfor – Sistemas Informáticos, S.A. (‘Edinfor’) from Energias de
Portugal (‘EDP’). The Edinfor group of companies is a leading IT services provider based in Portugal.
The minority interest of 40 per cent is subject to an EDP put option and a LogicaCMG call option. The EDP put option is exercisable at any
time in the period two years from the acquisition date to four years from the acquisition date. The LogicaCMG call option is exercisable at any
time four years after the acquisition date. The majority interest of 60 per cent held by the group is subject to an EDP call option. This option is
only exercisable in limited circumstances which the group does not expect to occur.
Carrying
amount 
pre-acquisition Fair value
£’m £’m
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 15.8 14.5
Property, plant and equipment 32.3 29.6
Investments in associates 0.6 0.6
Inventories 1.7 1.5
Trade and other receivables 40.1 39.4
Cash and cash equivalents 6.0 6.0
Trade and other payables (40.7) (33.6)
Current tax payable (1.3) (1.3)
Derivative financial instruments (0.4) (0.4)
Borrowings (16.2) (16.2)
Retirement benefit obligations (1.4) (1.4)
Provisions (0.6) (1.1)
Deferred tax 0.5 – 
Other non-current liabilities – (0.1)
36.4 37.5
Minority interests (15.1)
Share of net assets acquired 22.4
Goodwill 23.8
Total consideration 46.2
Total consideration comprised:
Cash 37.0
Deferred consideration 6.8
Directly attributable costs and completion adjustments 2.4
46.2
The total cash paid to EDP relating to the Edinfor transaction was £48.3 million, of which £37.0 million was attributed to the business
combination and £11.3 million was attributed to repayment of borrowings assumed on acquisition. Cash outflows relating to transaction costs
and payments of deferred consideration were a further £4.1 million, resulting in a cash outflow for the Edinfor acquisition, net of cash and cash
equivalents acquired, of £46.4 million during the year. The goodwill recognised of £23.8 million is attributable to anticipated synergies and the
value of the work force.
Edinfor contributed revenues of £88.0 million and net profit of £4.4 million for the period from 20 April 2005 to 31 December 2005. If the
acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the financial year, the group’s pro forma revenue and net profit for the year ended 31 December
2005 would have been approximately £1,869.6 million and £74.5 million respectively, based on the following principal assumptions:
• alignment of Edinfor’s accounting policies with those of the LogicaCMG group for the period pre-acquisition;
• fair value adjustments made as if they had occurred at the beginning of the financial year, with subsequent consequential adjustments 
to depreciation, amortisation and other related items of income and expense;
• an increased interest cost to reflect debt funding of the acquisition from 1 January 2005; and
• the tax effect of the adjustments above. P72 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
32. Share-based payment
Equity-settled share-based payment arrangements 
The group operates four equity-settled share-based payment arrangements: the Executive Share Option Scheme (‘ESOS’), the Sharesave
scheme, the Executive Equity Partnership Plan (‘ExEPP’) and the Employee Equity Partnership Plan (‘EmEPP’). A summary of the main terms
of the arrangements is given below, with particular reference made to the terms of those grants for which a share-based payment expense has
been recognised.
Executive Share Option Scheme
Option grants under the ESOS are made to senior executives and managers across the group, as well as to staff with high potential or 
to recognise significant achievements. Options will normally be exercisable between three and ten years following grant, provided that a
performance condition, specified at the date of grant, has been satisfied. Typically, growth in the group’s earnings per share over the relevant
performance period is required to exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index by at least 21 per cent for the performance condition to be met.
ESOS option grants prior to 2005 have a maximum seven year exercise period, however, option grants in 2005 have a four year exercise
period. Retesting of performance conditions may be carried out twice for 2003 option grants, once for 2004 option grants and no retesting is
permitted on grants made in 2005.
The exercise price of ESOS options is generally at least equal to the mid-market price of the company’s shares on the date of grant, although
the pricing mechanism varies slightly for grants to French employees.
Sharesave Scheme
The group operates a savings-related share option scheme under which employees enter into a savings contract with a financial institution 
to pay a fixed monthly sum for either a three year or, for grants before 4 October 2002, five year period. Share options are granted, at an
exercise price at least equal to the mid-market price of the company’s shares on the date of grant, such that the aggregate exercise price
payable is equal to the expected proceeds on maturity of the savings contract. Share options may be exercised within six months of the
vesting date. There are no performance conditions attached to sharesave scheme options.
Equity Partnership Plans
The group operates an equity partnership plan for senior executives, the ExEPP, and an equity partnership plan open to all employees 
in certain countries, the EmEPP, the terms of which are similar. Under the equity partnership plans, employees make an investment in the
company’s shares, subject to financial limits, which must be maintained over a three year vesting period. Awards of a matching number of
shares are made at nil cost to employees and are exercisable for up to seven years after the vesting date, after which the award will expire.
Vesting will occur for those participants employed at the vesting date, subject to a performance condition being met. The performance
conditions vary by scheme and grant date. Typically, growth in the group’s earnings per share must exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index
by between 3 per cent and 7 per cent per annum, dependant on the scheme and grant date, in each year in the performance period for the
award to vest in full. The Remuneration Committee may, at its discretion, allow matching awards under the EmEPP to vest pro rata if
performance conditions are met in only one or two years out of the three year performance period.
A reconciliation of the movement in the number of share options and share awards outstanding is shown below:
2005
Share options Share awards
Weighted 
average
Number of exercise price Number of 
shares £ shares 
Outstanding at 1 January 2005 35,763,902 3.44 791,281
Granted 13,952,490 1.80 221,031
Exercised (74,713) 1.29 (8,387)
Forfeited (4,562,199) 3.70 (254,271)
Expired (3,741,178) 5.45 – 
Outstanding at 9 October 2005 41,338,302 2.68 749,654
Impact of rights issue 5,694,437 (0.32) 100,962
Outstanding at 9 October 2005 47,032,739 2.36 850,616
Exercised (180,508) 0.95 (4,662)
Forfeited (743,870) 2.21 (14,475)
Expired (419,790) 4.60 – 
Outstanding at 31 December 2005 45,688,571 2.34 831,479
Exercisable at 31 December 2005 10,685,155 3.86 163,341 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P73
32. Share-based payment (continued)
2004
Share options Share awards
Weighted 
average
Number of exercise price Number of 
shares £ shares 
Outstanding at 1 January 2004 49,770,643 4.06 663,736
Granted 3,099,348 2.53 316,591
Exercised (1,205,534) 1.32 (25,019)
Forfeited (13,290,506) 5.19 (164,027)
Expired (2,610,049) 6.28 – 
Outstanding at 31 December 2004 35,763,902 3.44 791,281
Exercisable at 31 December 2004 9,432,311 6.57 49,404
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the year ended 31 December 2005 was 170.7
pence (2004: 198.4 pence).
The number of share options outstanding on 9 October 2005 and their respective exercise prices were adjusted to take account of the bonus
element of the rights issue during 2005. The exercise price of share options outstanding was repriced by applying an adjustment factor of
0.87896. In addition, the number of share options outstanding was increased for each share option holder, in proportion to their holding, by
the reciprocal factor of 1.13770. The adjustment factor of 1.13770 was also applied to the number of shares awards outstanding under the
Equity Partnership Plans on the same date. Where the adjustment to the number of share options and awards did not give rise to a whole
number, the number of share options and awards were rounded down to the nearest whole number on an individual-by-individual basis.
The adjustments to the exercise price of share options and the number of share options and share awards did not have a material impact on
the aggregate fair value of share options and share awards outstanding.
The exercise price and remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at the balance sheet date was as follows:
2005
Weighted
Weighted average
average remaining
exercise price contractual life Number of 
Range of exercise prices £ Years shares 
Less than £1.00 0.81 3.1 4,875,690
More than £1.00 and less than £2.00 1.47 5.4 20,770,477
More than £2.00 and less than £5.00 2.61 4.4 16,943,453
More than £5.00 and less than £10.00 6.27 4.6 2,127,449
More than £10.00 15.44 4.4 971,502
2.34 4.7 45,668,571
2004
Weighted
Weighted average
average remaining
exercise price contractual life Number of 
Range of exercise prices £ Years shares 
Less than £1.00 0.92 4.2 4,980,498
More than £1.00 and less than £2.00 1.32 7.4 5,583,158
More than £2.00 and less than £5.00 2.93 5.3 17,453,039
More than £5.00 and less than £10.00 6.04 2.6 6,636,602
More than £10.00 17.80 5.0 1,110,605
3.44 5.0 35,763,902
The fair value of share options and share awards granted in the 2005 and 2004 financial years and the assumptions used in the calculation 
of their fair value on the date of grant were as follows. All grants in the year ended 31 December 2005 occurred prior to the rights issue.
2005
Employee Executive
Executive Equity Equity
Share Option Sharesave Partnership Partnership
Weighted average assumption Scheme Scheme Plan Plan
Share price on date of grant £1.80 £1.82 £1.82 £1.64
Exercise price £1.80 £1.81 nil nil
Share options / awards granted in the year 8,624,500 5,327,990 209,680 11,351
Vesting period (years) 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0
Expected volatility 59% 55% – – 
Expected life (years) Note 1 3.3 3.0 3.0
Risk free rate 4.6% 4.6% – – 
Dividend yield 3.2% 3.2% 3.2% 3.5%
Fair value per share option / award £0.77 £0.65 £1.66 £1.48 32. Share-based payment (continued)
2004
Employee Executive
Executive Equity Equity
Share Option Sharesave Partnership Partnership
Weighted average assumption Scheme Scheme Plan Plan
Share price on date of grant £2.30 £2.67 £2.67 £2.60
Exercise price £2.30 £2.67 nil nil
Share options / awards granted in the year 1,194,000 1,905,348 185,845 130,746
Vesting period (years) 3.0 3.1 3.0 3.0
Expected volatility 56% 63% – – 
Expected life (years) Note 2 3.3 3.0 3.0
Risk free rate 4.8% 4.5% – – 
Dividend yield 2.6% 2.1% 2.1% 2.2%
Fair value per share option / award £1.05 £1.13 £2.50 £2.43
1
The expected exercise behaviour of ESOS option holders for grants made in 2005 is as follows: 60 per cent of participants exercise after 3 years and 25 per cent after 5
years, subject to the market share price being at least 20 per cent over the option exercise price. The balance are exercised after 7 years, providing the options are in the
money.
2
The expected exercise behaviour of ESOS option holders for grants made in 2004 is as follows: 60 per cent of participants exercise after 3 years and 25 per cent after 6 
years, subject to the market share price being at least 20 per cent over the option exercise price. The balance are exercised after 10 years, providing the options are in 
the money.
The fair value of ESOS options was measured using a Monte Carlo simulation model and the fair value of Sharesave scheme options was
measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value of share awards under the Equity Partnership Plans was measured 
at the market share price at the date of grant reduced for the present value of expected dividends over the vesting period, for which award
holders have no entitlement.
Expected volatility was determined using the historical volatility of the company’s share price over a period commensurate with the expected
life of the share option. The period from 1 July 1999 to 30 June 2001 was excluded as management believe it represented a period of high
share price volatility which is unlikely to be repeated in the future.
Share awards under the Equity Partnership Plans are assumed to be exercised on the vesting date. Sharesave options are assumed 
to be exercised three months after the vesting date, the mid-point of the contractual exercise period.
At the date of grant, it is assumed that performance conditions will be met in full. Adjustments are made subsequently, where necessary, 
to reflect updated assessments of whether performance conditions will be met and the final determination on the vesting date. The share-
based payment expense also takes account of expected forfeiture from the balance sheet date to the end of the vesting period following
cessation of employment. A weighted average forfeiture rate of 10 per cent per annum was assumed for calculating the share-based payment
expense for the year ended 31 December 2005 (2004: 5 per cent).
The group recognised a total expense in respect of equity-settled share-based payment arrangements of £5.9 million in the year ended 
31 December 2005 (2004: £5.7 million).
Cash-settled share-based payment arrangements
The group does not operate separate cash-settled share-based payments arrangements, however, social security obligations arising on share
option and share award schemes are treated as such an arrangement for accounting purposes. The liability for cash-settled share-based
social security payments at 31 December 2005 was £1.2 million (2004: £0.8 million). The movement in the liability resulted in an expense for
the year ended 31 December 2005 of £0.4 million (2004: gain of £0.1 million).
33. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution schemes
The group operates a number of voluntary pension schemes of the defined contribution type in the UK and overseas, under which
contributions are paid by group undertakings. In some countries, contributions are made into state pension schemes. The pension cost charge
for defined contribution schemes amounted to £35.3 million (2004: £35.2 million).
Defined benefit schemes
In addition, the group operates defined benefit pension schemes primarily for the benefit of employees in the UK and the Netherlands, with
smaller schemes in other European countries. Defined benefit schemes are usually funded by contributions from the employing companies,
and in some cases also employees, to the meet the costs, at rates assessed by the actuary or insurer of each scheme, in regular funding
reviews. The schemes’ assets are held in funds separate from those of the group. Scheme benefits typically provide for a pension in retirement
based on a years of qualifying service and final pensionable salary.
The most recent valuations of plan assets, reimbursement rights and defined benefit obligations were carried out at 31 December 2005 
by qualified actuaries. The present value of the defined benefit obligation, and the related current and past service cost, were measured using
the projected unit credit method. A revision to the deficit on the CMG UK Pension Scheme as at 31 December 2004 has been made
compared to information previously published by the group under IFRS, details of which are provided in note 38. Comparative information for
this scheme has been amended accordingly within the disclosures below.
P74 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P75
33. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The weighted average principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date were as follows:
UK schemes Overseas schemes
2005 2004 2005 2004
Discount rate 4.75% 5.30% 4.24% 4.84%
Average life expectancy for 65 year old male 20 years 20 years 17 years 17 years
Expected return on plan assets 6.85% 7.01% 3.67% 5.10%
Expected return on reimbursement rights – – 4.82% 4.50%
General salary increases 2.85% 4.15% 1.96% 2.95%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.80% 2.90% 0.47% 0.34%
Inflation 2.80% 2.90% 2.15% 2.25%
The amounts recognised in the income statement as employee benefit expense for defined benefit schemes were as follows:
2005
UK Overseas All 
schemes schemes schemes 
£’m £’m £’m
Current service cost 6.1 5.6 11.7
Curtailment gain – (0.4) (0.4)
Interest cost 9.7 6.7 16.4
Expected return on plan assets (8.4) (6.6) (15.0)
Expected return on reimbursement rights – (0.4) (0.4)
7.4 4.9 12.3
2004
UK Overseas All 
schemes schemes schemes 
£’m £’m £’m
Current service cost 6.4 5.3 11.7
Past service cost – 0.5 0.5
Interest cost 8.7 6.1 14.8
Expected return on plan assets (7.3) (6.7) (14.0)
Expected return on reimbursement rights – (0.3) (0.3)
7.8 4.9 12.7
The actual return on plan assets for UK schemes was £25.9 million (2004: £11.5 million) and for overseas schemes was £18.9 million (2004:
£10.6 million). The actual return on reimbursement rights for overseas schemes was £0.7 million (2004: £0.5 million).
Actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in full in the statement of recognised income and expense. The cumulative amount 
of actuarial losses recognised through the statement of recognised income and expense at 31 December 2005 was £6.3 million 
(2004: £18.3 million).
The amounts included in the balance sheet in respect of the group’s defined benefit schemes were as follows:
2005
UK Overseas All 
schemes schemes schemes 
£’m £’m £’m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (205.7) (155.5) (361.2)
Fair value of scheme assets 149.3 149.1 298.4
Deficit in the schemes (56.4) (6.4) (62.8)
Past service cost not yet recognised – 0.2 0.2
Fair value of reimbursement rights – 9.2 9.2
Net (liability) / asset recognised in the balance sheet (56.4) 3.0 (53.4)
Presented as:
Other non-current investments – 9.2 9.2
Retirement benefit assets 1.0 14.3 15.3
Retirement benefit liabilities (57.4) (20.5) (77.9)
(56.4) 3.0 (53.4) P76 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
33. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
2004
UK Overseas All 
schemes schemes schemes 
£’m £’m £’m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (181.9) (140.2) (322.1)
Fair value of scheme assets 116.5 132.8 249.3
Deficit in the schemes (65.4) (7.4) (72.8)
Past service cost not yet recognised – 0.2 0.2
Fair value of reimbursement rights – 8.5 8.5
Net (liability) / asset recognised in the balance sheet (65.4) 1.3 (64.1)
Presented as:
Other non-current investments – 8.5 8.5
Retirement benefit assets 0.1 6.4 6.5
Retirement benefit liabilities (65.5) (13.6) (79.1)
(65.4) 1.3 (64.1)
The following tables present a reconciliation of the movements in the defined benefit obligation between the beginning and end of the financial
year, and an analysis of the defined benefit obligation between unfunded schemes and those schemes that are partly or wholly funded.
2005
UK Overseas All 
schemes schemes schemes
Defined benefit obligation £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2005 181.9 140.2 322.1
Current service cost 6.1 5.6 11.7
Curtailment gain – (0.4) (0.4)
Interest cost 9.7 6.7 16.4
Contributions from scheme members 1.2 0.2 1.4
Actuarial losses 9.0 9.1 18.1
Benefits paid (2.2) (2.7) (4.9)
Acquisition of subsidiary – 1.4 1.4
Exchange differences – (4.6) (4.6)
At 31 December 2005 205.7 155.5 361.2
Defined benefit obligation of unfunded schemes – 10.3 10.3
Defined benefit obligation of funded schemes 205.7 145.2 350.9
At 31 December 2005 205.7 155.5 361.2
2004
UK Overseas All 
schemes schemes schemes 
Defined benefit obligation £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2004 155.1 115.1 270.2
Current service cost 6.4 5.3 11.7
Past service cost – 0.5 0.5
Interest cost 8.7 6.1 14.8
Contributions from scheme members 2.3 0.2 2.5
Actuarial losses 12.9 13.7 26.6
Benefits paid (3.5) (2.5) (6.0)
Exchange differences – 1.8 1.8
At 31 December 2004 181.9 140.2 322.1
Defined benefit obligation of unfunded schemes – 6.3 6.3
Defined benefit obligation of funded schemes 181.9 133.9 315.8
At 31 December 2004 181.9 140.2 322.1
Insurance policies taken out to fund retirement benefit schemes that do not qualify as plan assets are presented as reimbursement rights.
Such policies fund pension schemes in Germany and a life assurance scheme in the United States. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P77
33. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The following tables present a reconciliation of the movements plan assets and reimbursement rights between the beginning and end of the
financial year.
2005
UK Overseas All 
schemes schemes schemes 
Plan assets and reimbursement rights £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2005 116.5 141.2 257.7
Expected return on assets 8.4 7.0 15.4
Contributions by employer 7.9 4.6 12.5
Contributions from scheme members 1.2 0.2 1.4
Actuarial gains 17.5 12.6 30.1
Benefits paid (2.2) (2.7) (4.9)
Exchange differences – (4.6) (4.6)
At 31 December 2005 149.3 158.3 307.6
Plan assets 149.3 149.1 298.4
Reimbursement rights – 9.2 9.2
At 31 December 2005 149.3 158.3 307.6
2004
UK Overseas All 
schemes schemes schemes
Plan assets and reimbursement rights £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2004 99.2 125.0 224.2
Expected return on assets 7.3 7.0 14.3
Contributions by employer 7.0 6.2 13.2
Contributions from scheme members 2.3 0.2 2.5
Actuarial gains 4.2 4.1 8.3
Benefits paid (3.5) (2.5) (6.0)
Exchange differences – 1.2 1.2
At 31 December 2004 116.5 141.2 257.7
Plan assets 116.5 132.7 249.2
Reimbursement rights – 8.5 8.5
At 31 December 2004 116.5 141.2 257.7
The fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date is analysed below:
2005
UK Overseas All 
schemes schemes schemes
£’m £’m £’m
Equities 105.3 2.4 107.7
Government bonds 10.4 145.1 155.5
Corporate bonds 19.7 1.2 20.9
Property 12.6 – 12.6
Cash 1.3 0.4 1.7
149.3 149.1 298.4
2004
UK Overseas All 
schemes schemes schemes
£’m £’m £’m
Equities 89.1 38.2 127.3
Government bonds 15.6 68.8 84.4
Corporate bonds 9.7 22.7 32.4
Property 0.5 – 0.5
Cash 1.6 3.0 4.6
116.5 132.7 249.2
The expected rates of return on government bonds and corporate bonds is determined by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date for bonds
of a similar term to those held as plan assets. The expected rate of return on equities is determined by reference to real historical equity market returns.
The overall expected rate of return on plan assets is calculated as a weighted average of the expected rates of return of individual assets classes. The
weighted average is calculated by reference to the amount in each class of plan assets at the balance sheet date. Plan assets in overseas schemes
include ordinary shares of the company with a fair value of £2.2 million at 31 December 2005 (2004: £2.4 million) but do not include any property
occupied by, or other assets used by, the group. P78 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
33. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The history of the group’s defined benefit arrangements is as follows:
UK schemes Overseas schemes
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Present value of the defined benefit obligation (205.7) (181.9) (155.5) (140.2)
Fair value of plan assets 149.3 116.5 149.1 132.8
Deficit (56.4) (65.4) (6.4) (7.4)
Experience (loss) / gain on plan liabilities (1.0) (4.4) (0.9) 2.8
Experience gain on plan assets 17.5 4.2 12.3 3.8
In accordance with the transitional provisions of the amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’, the disclosures in the table above are
provided prospectively from the year ended 31 December 2004.
The group expects to contribute approximately £15.0 million to defined benefit plans in 2006, of which £10.9 million relates to UK schemes
and £4.1 million relates to overseas schemes.
34. Related party transactions
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors of the company and the group’s Executive Committee, who are the key management personnel of the group,
recognised in the income statement is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories required by IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Further
information about the remuneration of individual directors is disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 31 to 38.
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Short-term employee benefits 6.0 3.2
Post-employment benefits 0.8 0.6
Share-based payment 1.5 0.9
8.3 4.7
The amount for share-based payment is that calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’.
35. Financial commitments
Operating lease commitments
At 31 December, the group had commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, principally for offices and computer equipment, 
as follows:
2005 2004
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
Future minimum lease payments payable £’m £’m £’m £’m
Within one year 48.1 35.6 45.1 39.4
Between two and five years 156.1 48.2 142.6 30.8
After five years 156.2 1.7 164.7 3.8
360.4 85.5 352.4 74.0
The expense recognised in the income statement for payments under non-cancellable operating leases for the year ended 31 December 2005
was £92.1 million (2004: £92.1 million). At 31 December 2005, the total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under
non-cancellable subleases was £29.0 million (2004: £24.0 million).
Capital expenditure commitments
2005 2004
Group Associates Group Associates
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Contracted at the balance sheet date 0.4 – 6.4 –  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P79
36. Contingent liabilities
The group has contingent liabilities arising during the ordinary course of business from which it is anticipated that no material loss will arise.
37. Events after the balance sheet date
On 13 January 2006, the group acquired a controlling 96.6 per cent interest in the ordinary share capital of Unilog S.A. (‘Unilog’). Due to the
existence of shares with double voting rights not held by the group, this equated to a 95.8 per cent interest in the voting rights of Unilog. The
Unilog group of companies is a leading IT services provider of management and IT consultancy, systems integration, outsourcing and training
services based in France and with overseas offices in Germany, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Austria and Luxembourg.
The group’s 96.6 per cent interest in Unilog at the date of acquisition was acquired through the following steps:
- a ‘block trade’ purchase from certain members of the senior management of Unilog of 32.3 per cent on 25 October 2005;
- market purchases during November, December 2005 and January 2006, amounting to an additional 14.8 per cent interest; and
- a further bulk purchase of 49.5 per cent on 13 January 2006 following the completion of the public tender offer.
The cost of the acquisition of £619.6 million is analysed below. The cost of acquisition included 19,572,703 ordinary shares issued as part of the block
trade purchase. The shares were attributed a fair value based on the closing mid-market price prevailing on 25 October 2005 of 143.5 pence.
Carrying
amount pre- Provisional
acquisition fair value
£’m £’m
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 2.0 2.0
Property, plant and equipment 14.7 13.6
Investments in associates 0.1 0.1
Other investments 1.5 1.5
Deferred tax 1.4 1.8
Trade and other receivables 199.9 199.9
Cash and cash equivalents 120.6 120.6
Trade and other payables (214.4) (214.4)
Borrowings (34.7) (34.7)
Provisions (3.9) (3.9)
Retirement benefit obligations (7.2) (7.2)
80.0 79.3
Minority interests (3.1)
Share of net assets acquired 76.2
Goodwill 543.4
Total consideration 619.6
Total consideration comprised:
Cash 582.0
New ordinary shares issued 28.1
Directly attributable costs 9.5
619.6
Due to the short time period between the acquisition of a controlling interest in Unilog and the date of approval of these consolidated financial
statements, the fair values above contain some provisional amounts which will be finalised during the 2006 financial year. In particular, the fair
values of intangible assets initially recognised at the date of acquisition have not been finalised and have not been attributed a fair value in the
table above. 38. Transition to IFRS
On 17 May 2005, the group published an explanation of the impact of the transition to IFRS together with restated comparative information 
for 2004 under IFRS and reconciliations from UK GAAP. This disclosure note reproduces information from the group’s previous announcement,
amended for the following adjustments which affect the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2004:
• an increase of £21.5 million in the retirement benefit liability associated with the CMG UK Pension Scheme, together with a consequential
increase in deferred tax assets of £6.4 million;
• an increase of £1.7 million (1 January 2004: £1.8 million) in deferred tax assets relating to the release of deferred tax previously recognised
for goodwill generated on the acquisition of a business in Australia in 2000; and
• a reclassification of the group’s convertible debt, amounting to £211.2 million, to current liabilities from non-current liabilities.
Following the results of the most recent triennial actuarial valuation of the CMG UK Pension Scheme, which was completed in December
2005, the deficit on the scheme as at 31 December 2004 has been revised from £43.9 million to £65.4 million. The scheme deficit as
previously reported was based on a roll-forward of the defined benefit obligation from the formal actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 1 July
2002 using estimation techniques, as permitted under IFRS.
The most recent actuarial valuation has shown that the use of estimation techniques understated the defined benefit obligation at
31 December 2004 compared to a comprehensive member-by-member assessment of the defined benefit obligation. As a consequence 
of the materiality of the adjustment, 2004 comparative information has been amended. The deficit on the scheme as at 31 December 2003
remains unaffected by this revision.
Notes a) to i) below explain the impact that the adoption of IFRS has had on comparative information as at and for the year ended 
31 December 2004 and as at the date of transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004. Note j) explains the impact of the adoption of IAS 32 and 
IAS 39 at 1 January 2005. The narrative section is intended to support the associated numerical reconciliations contained in notes 38.1 
to 38.4 below.
a) Goodwill
Under UK GAAP, goodwill was treated in two ways. Prior to 1 July 1998, goodwill arising under the acquisition accounting method was written
off directly to equity and recycled to the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal of the acquired entity. Subsequent to
that date, goodwill was capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life, up to a maximum period of 20 years.
The group has taken the exemption in IFRS 1 for business combinations. As a result, the net book value of goodwill under UK GAAP at 
31 December 2003 became the deemed cost of goodwill at the date of transition to IFRS. Under IFRS, this balance is no longer amortised 
but is subject to impairment testing on an annual basis, or more frequently if there is an indication of impairment. Goodwill previously written
off directly to equity is not recycled to the income statement following a disposal of a previously acquired entity.
The effect of adopting IFRS was to reverse the goodwill amortisation recognised under UK GAAP and to increase the carrying value of goodwill
in the balance sheet at 31 December 2004.
b) Other intangible assets
Development costs
Under UK GAAP, the development costs of internally developed software products and enhancements were expensed as incurred irrespective
of the future value expected from the results of the development activity.
IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ requires that development costs are capitalised when the criteria set out in the standard are met. Development
costs can only be capitalised when an intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits and costs can be reliably measured.
Once development activity on a software product or enhancement has finished, any capitalised costs are amortised over the useful life of the
product, typically over a period of up to three years.
The effect of adopting IFRS was to capitalise development costs previously expensed under UK GAAP and therefore to increase the carrying
value of intangible assets. The impact on the income statement was the net effect of the capitalisation of any development costs that meet the
IAS 38 criteria during the period and the amortisation of costs capitalised in the balance sheet.
Software licences
Under UK GAAP, purchased software licences were capitalised within tangible fixed assets as part of the computer hardware to which they
related and depreciated over their useful economic life.
IAS 38 requires that computer software that is an integral part of the related hardware, such as an operating system, is treated as property,
plant and equipment. Software that is not an integral part of the related hardware must be capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised
over its useful economic life.
The effect of this change was to reclassify certain software licences from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets in the balance
sheet and to reclassify the related depreciation expense to amortisation expense in the income statement.
P80 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P81
38. Transition to IFRS (continued)
c) Leases
The UK GAAP accounting standard on leases, SSAP 21 ‘Accounting for leases and hire purchase contracts’, is similar to the IFRS standard,
IAS 17 ‘Leases’, in terms of the classification of a lease as either an operating lease or a finance lease.
Whilst both standards define a finance lease as a lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the
lessee, SSAP 21 provides a numeric test, which does not exist in IAS 17, that was used as persuasive evidence of whether this transfer had
taken place. A consequence of adopting IAS 17 has been that some leases previously classified as operating leases under UK GAAP have
been classified as finance leases under IFRS. 
The impact on the balance sheet at 31 December 2004 was to capitalise assets under finance leases within property, plant and equipment at
their deemed cost less accumulated depreciation. A related liability, classified as a borrowing, for future lease payments was also recognised.
The impact on the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 was limited, the main consequence being a reduction in net
operating costs and an increase in interest payable.
d) Employee benefits
Retirement benefit schemes
Under UK GAAP, the group accounted for defined benefit and defined contribution retirement benefit schemes under SSAP 24 ‘Accounting for
pension costs’. Additional disclosures were given under FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’.
Under SSAP 24, a regular pension cost for defined benefit schemes was determined using actuarial methods and charged to the profit and
loss account. Variations from the regular cost caused by, for example, retroactive changes in benefits, changes in actuarial assumptions, and
experience gains and losses, were spread over the average remaining service lives of employees. The cumulative difference between the profit
and loss account expense and employer contributions was held in the balance sheet as either a prepayment or provision.
Under IFRS, the group applies IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. This standard follows a balance sheet approach which is similar to that of FRS 17
whereby scheme deficits or surpluses are recognised on the balance sheet. The income statement expense comprises the current service
cost, the interest cost, the expected return on any plan assets and the appropriate portion of any past service cost. The group has adopted
early the amendment to IAS 19 in December 2004 which allows actuarial gains and losses to be recognised in full in the statement of
recognised income and expense.
The effect of adopting IFRS on the balance sheet at 31 December 2004 was to remove any pension prepayment or provision recognised under
UK GAAP and to recognise the net deficit or surplus, when permitted, on defined benefit schemes less any unrecognised past service cost.
The impact on the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 was to increase the pension expense in operating profit and to
recognise a net charge to interest payable.
Holiday pay
The group’s UK GAAP accounting policy was to accrue for all payments expected to be made to leavers within one year of the balance sheet
date for holiday entitlement not used prior to leaving. IAS 19 requires that a liability is recorded for all accrued entitlements for holiday at each
balance sheet date.
The impact on the group was to increase the employee benefits liability at 31 December 2004 and increase the expense in the income
statement for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Share-based payments
The group operates a variety of share-based employee incentive arrangements which typically include the grant of rights to shares or share
options.
Under UK GAAP, a charge was recorded only when an award had intrinsic value on the date of grant i.e. the market value of the company’s
shares on the date of grant exceeded the exercise price of the award. A charge was not recorded for share options schemes as the exercise
price of share options was set at the prevailing market price on the grant date. A charge was recorded for the employee and executive equity
partnership plans under which rights to shares were granted at no cost to employees, subject to meeting performance conditions.
IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ requires that an expense is recognised in the income statement based on the fair value of an award on the
date of grant. The expense is spread over the period for which services are received from employees, which is assumed to be the
performance period of the award. The fair value of share options is measured using an option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes model has
been used to determine the fair value of options granted under SAYE schemes. A Monte Carlo simulation model has been used for executive
share options.
IFRS 2 requires a liability to be recorded for social security costs on gains from the exercise of share options. The liability is measured based
on the fair value of share options outstanding at each balance sheet date. Under UK GAAP, a liability for social security was recorded only
when share options had intrinsic value.
The impact of adopting IFRS was to increase the share-based payments expense in the income statement. This is principally because 
an expense is now recognised for share option schemes where none was recognised under UK GAAP. The liability in the balance sheet 
at 31 December 2004 for social security on share options increased compared to UK GAAP, however, the effect on the income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2004 was not significant. 38. Transition to IFRS (continued)
e) Foreign currencies
IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’ contains more prescriptive guidance than UK GAAP on how to determine an
entity’s functional currency, the application of which may, in some circumstances, result in a different outcome. As a consequence of evaluating
the functional currencies of group entities under IFRS, the functional currencies of some overseas branches have changed.
The effect of the changes has been to reduce the value of amounts recoverable on contracts in the balance sheet at 31 December 2004 and
to increase net operating expenses in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004.
f) Taxation
Deferred tax under UK GAAP was provided on all timing differences that had originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date. Timing
differences arise when gains and losses are included in tax computations in a later or earlier period from that in which they appear in the
group’s financial statements.
IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ has a balance sheet focused approach. The standard requires that full provision be made for all taxable temporary
differences except those arising on goodwill. A temporary difference is the difference between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the
balance sheet and its associated tax base. A temporary difference is a taxable temporary difference if it will give rise to taxable amounts in the
future when the asset or liability is settled.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are classified as non-current irrespective of the expected timing of the reversal of the underlying taxable
temporary difference. Current tax assets and liabilities are shown separately on the face of the balance sheet.
The principal impact of adopting IFRS was to recognise deferred tax on retirement benefit scheme deficits and surpluses, adjustments to
holiday pay liabilities and share-based payments.
g) Dividends
Under UK GAAP, dividends were recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account. An accrual was made for dividends that were
proposed by directors after the balance sheet date but prior to the date of the signing of the financial statements and a corresponding
expense was recognised.
Distributions to equity holders are not recognised in the income statement under IFRS, they are disclosed as a component of the movement in
shareholders’ equity. A liability is recorded for a final dividend when the dividend is approved by the company’s shareholders, and for an interim
dividend when the dividend is paid.
The impact of IFRS was to remove the accrual for the 2004 final dividend in the balance sheet at 31 December 2004.
h) Borrowings
Under UK GAAP, the convertible bonds were presented as a non-current liability. FRS 4 ‘Capital instruments’ required that conversion of debt
was not anticipated and this was reflected in the presentation as well as the measurement of the convertible bonds.
IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ requires that liabilities should be classified as current when the entity does not have an
unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date. The convertible bonds are
potentially exchangeable into ordinary shares of the company on any day from 1 January 2005 up to and including 5 September 2008.
Accordingly, at 31 December 2004, the company did not have the right to defer settlement for at least twelve months and therefore the
convertible bonds have been re-classified as a current liability under IFRS.
i) Cash flow statement
Although there was no effect on the underlying cash generation and expenditures of the group, there were some presentational changes 
on the adoption of IAS 7 ‘Cash Flow Statements’.
The cash flow statement under IFRS shows the movement in cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include short-term
deposits with a maturity of less than three months, which were included in the management of liquid resources category under UK GAAP. 
The balance sheet under IFRS at 31 December 2004 included £1.8 million of cash equivalents previously classified as a liquid deposit in the
UK GAAP cash flow statement.
In addition, further presentational changes were made to reflect the different accounting treatment of certain items under IFRS. 
The two principal reclassifications were for finance leases previously classified as operating leases under UK GAAP and software product 
development expenditure.
Under IFRS, the capital repayments of finance leases were treated as a financing cash flow, whereas as an operating lease under UK GAAP,
the lease payments were treated as an operating cash flow. Product development expenditure previously expensed and classified as an
operating cash flow under UK GAAP has been classified as a cash flow from investing activities under IFRS when the development expenditure
was capitalised as an intangible asset.
P82 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P83
38. Transition to IFRS (continued)
j) Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39
This section describes the impact of the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 1 January 2005.
Non-recourse financing
Under UK GAAP, non-recourse financing arrangements that met the conditions set out in FRS 5 ‘Reporting the substance of transactions’
were shown under a linked presentation, with the financing shown as a deduction from the gross amount of the asset to which it related. Such
a presentation is not permissible under IAS 32 and IAS 39 and the financing in such arrangements has been classified as borrowings.
The impact of adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 was to increase trade and other receivables and borrowings by £20.8 million. There was no
impact on equity.
Derivative financial instruments
Under UK GAAP, foreign currency assets and liabilities that were covered by a related forward contract were translated at the rate of exchange
specified in that contract.
Under IFRS, such assets and liabilities are translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date and forward contracts, as derivative
financial instruments, are recognised separately in the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the
income statement unless covered by a designated hedge which permits gains and losses to be deferred in equity. IFRS also requires that
derivatives embedded in host contracts are separated and accounted for as derivative financial instruments, if certain conditions are met.
The impact of adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 was to recognise on the balance sheet the fair value of all derivative financial instruments and re-
translate foreign currency assets and liabilities at the rates prevailing on the date of adoption. The difference between the amounts recognised
under UK GAAP and IFRS, £0.3 million, was taken to equity.
Convertible bonds
Under UK GAAP, the convertible bonds were presented separately on the face of the balance sheet at par value less unamortised issue costs.
Conversion of the bonds was not anticipated. The accrual for coupon interest was classified within trade and other payables. Exchange
differences arising on retranslation of the convertible bonds were offset in equity against the retranslation of foreign currency net investments,
to the extent permitted.
Under IFRS, the group took the option to designate the convertible bonds as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss. The
fluctuation in the value of the convertible bonds caused by changes in the quoted market price is recorded as interest income or expense, 
as appropriate. The change in fair value associated with the accretion of coupon interest is recognised as interest expense. Exchange
differences are taken directly to equity under a designated net investment hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
The impact of adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 was a reduction in the value of the convertible bonds of £1.6 million, reflecting the difference
between the par value and quoted market price of the convertible bonds and the write off of unamortised issue costs, together with an equal
and opposite movement in equity. P84 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
38.1 Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2004
Discontinued Other IFRS
UK GAAP
1,3
operation
2
adjustments IFRS
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Revenue 1,669.8 (11.4) – 1,658.4
Net operating costs (1,602.1) 13.4 8.9 (1,579.8)
Operating profit 67.7 2.0 8.9 78.6
Analysed as:
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 109.3 2.0 (13.1) 98.2
Restructuring costs (17.8) – – (17.8)
Goodwill amortisation (23.8) – 23.8 – 
Loss on disposal of businesses n/a – (1.8) (1.8)
Operating profit 67.7 2.0 8.9 78.6
Loss on disposal of business (11.2) 9.4 1.8 – 
Profit before interest 56.5 11.4 10.7 78.6
Interest payable (19.5) – (0.8) (20.3)
Interest receivable 5.4 – – 5.4
Profit before tax 42.4 11.4 9.9 63.7
Taxation (28.0) (1.7) 0.9 (28.8)
Profit after tax 14.4 9.7 10.8 34.9
Loss from discontinued operation n/a (9.7) – (9.7)
Profit from continuing operations n/a – 10.8 25.2
Minority interests (0.6) – – (0.6)
Net profit for the year 13.8 – 10.8 24.6
1
The UK GAAP column represents the results from both continuing and discontinued operations. 
2
The discontinued operation column shows the impact of reclassifying the loss after tax of the discontinued operation to the line entitled ‘Loss from discontinued operation’.
3
Boxed areas in the tables above represent amounts or sub-totals that are not applicable under UK GAAP.
Analysis of other IFRS adjustments for the year ended 31 December 2004
Goodwill Reclass-
amortis- Develop- Lease Share- Other ification
ation ment reclass- based employee of loss on Foreign
reversal costs ification payments benefits disposal
4
currencies Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Revenue – – – – – – – – 
Net operating costs 23.8 1.0 0.3 (5.6) (7.0) (1.8) (1.8) 8.9
Operating profit 23.8 1.0 0.3 (5.6) (7.0) (1.8) (1.8) 8.9
Analysed as:
Operating profit before 
goodwill amortisation and 
exceptional items – 1.0 0.3 (5.6) (7.0) – (1.8) (13.1)
Restructuring costs – – – – – – – – 
Goodwill amortisation 23.8 – – – – – – 23.8
Loss on disposal 
of businesses – – – – – (1.8) – (1.8)
Operating profit 23.8 1.0 0.3 (5.6) (7.0) (1.8) (1.8) 8.9
Loss on disposal of business – – – – – 1.8 – 1.8
Profit before interest 23.8 1.0 0.3 (5.6) (7.0) – (1.8) 10.7
Interest payable – – (0.3) – (0.5) – – (0.8)
Interest receivable – – – – – – – – 
Profit before tax 23.8 1.0 – (5.6) (7.5) – (1.8) 9.9
Taxation – (0.2) – – 1.1 – – 0.9
Profit after tax 23.8 0.8 – (5.6) (6.4) – (1.8) 10.8
Minority interests – – – – – – – – 
Net profit for the year 23.8 0.8 – (5.6) (6.4) – (1.8) 10.8
4
The reclassification of £1.8 million represents the reclassification of the loss on disposal of the MiGWay joint venture from below operating profit, as required under UK GAAP,
to net operating costs under IFRS. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P85
38.2 Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004
Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004
Reclassification
of held for Other IFRS
UK GAAP
1
sale operation adjustments IFRS
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 333.5 – 23.8 357.3
Other intangible assets – – 9.1 9.1
Property, plant and equipment 79.0 (0.5) (2.0) 76.5
Interests in joint ventures – – – – 
Other investments – – 8.5 8.5
Retirement benefit assets – – 6.5 6.5
Deferred tax assets 11.2 – 22.1 33.3
423.7 (0.5) 68.0 491.2
Current assets
Inventories 1.2 (0.1) – 1.1
Trade and other receivables 589.9 (5.4) (17.5) 567.0
Current tax assets 39.4 – – 39.4
Cash and cash equivalents 106.6 (1.7) – 104.9
737.1 (7.2) (17.5) 712.4
Non-current assets classified as held for sale n/a 3.2 – 3.2
n/a (4.0) (17.5) 715.6
Current liabilities
Convertible debt – – (211.2) (211.2)
Other borrowings (25.3) – (1.8) (27.1)
Trade and other payables (378.0) 3.0 9.8 (365.2)
Current tax liabilities (27.9) – – (27.9)
Provisions (18.1) 4.5 – (13.6)
(449.3) 7.5 (203.2) (645.0)
Liabilities associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale n/a (3.0) – (3.0)
n/a 4.5 (203.2) (648.0)
Net current assets 287.8 0.5 (220.7) 67.6
Total assets less current liabilities 711.5 – (152.7) 558.8
Non-current liabilities
Convertible debt (211.2) – 211.2 – 
Other borrowings (64.6) – (2.0) (66.6)
Retirement benefit obligations – – (79.1) (79.1)
Deferred tax liabilities (41.7) – (3.6) (45.3)
Provisions (6.3) – 0.1 (6.2)
Other non-current liabilities – – (1.0) (1.0)
(323.8) – 125.6 (198.2)
Net assets 387.7 – (27.1) 360.6
Equity
Share capital 75.1 – – 75.1
Share premium account 707.3 – – 707.3
Other reserves (397.1) – (27.0) (424.1)
Total shareholders’ equity 385.3 – (27.0) 358.3
Minority interests 2.4 – (0.1) 2.3
Total equity 387.7 – (27.1) 360.6
1
Boxed areas in the table above represent amounts or sub-totals that are not applicable under UK GAAP. 38.2 Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004 (continued)
Analysis of IFRS adjustments at 31 December 2004
Goodwill
amortis- Lease
ation Development reclass- Employee Foreign
reversal costs ification benefits Taxation currencies Other
1
Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 23.8 – – – – – – 23.8
Other intangible assets – 3.5 – – – – 5.6 9.1
Property, plant and equipment – – 3.6 – – – (5.6) (2.0)
Interests in joint ventures – – – – – – – – 
Other investments – – – 8.5 – – – 8.5
Retirement benefit assets – – – 6.5 – – – 6.5
Deferred tax assets – – – – 22.1 – – 22.1
23.8 3.5 3.6 15.0 22.1 – – 68.0
Current assets
Inventories – – – – – – – – 
Trade and other receivables – – – (17.0) – (0.5) – (17.5)
Current tax assets – – – – – – – – 
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – – – – – 
– – – (17.0) – (0.5) – (17.5)
Non-current assets 
classified as held for sale – – – – – – – –
– – – (17.0) – (0.5) – (17.5)
Current liabilities
Convertible debt – – – – – – (211.2) (211.2)
Other borrowings – – (1.8) – – – – (1.8)
Trade and other payables – – – (16.0) – – 25.8 9.8
Current tax liabilities – – – – – – – – 
Provisions – – – – – – – – 
– – (1.8) (16.0) – – (185.4) (203.2)
Liabilities associated with 
non-current assets classified 
as held for sale – – – – – – – –
– – (1.8) (16.0) – – (185.4) (203.2)
Net current assets – – (1.8) (33.0) – (0.5) (185.4) (220.7)
Total assets less 
current liabilities 23.8 3.5 1.8 (18.0) 22.1 (0.5) (185.4) (152.7)
Non-current liabilities
Convertible debt – – – – – – 211.2 211.2
Other borrowings – – (2.0) – – – – (2.0)
Retirement benefit obligations – – – (79.1) – – – (79.1)
Deferred tax liabilities – – – – (3.6) – – (3.6)
Provisions – – – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Other non-current liabilities – – – (1.0) – – – (1.0)
– – (2.0) (80.0) (3.6) – 211.2 125.6
Net assets 23.8 3.5 (0.2) (98.0) 18.5 (0.5) 25.8 (27.1)
Equity
Share capital – – – – – – – – 
Share premium account – – – – – – – – 
Other reserves 23.8 3.5 (0.1) (98.0) 18.5 (0.5) 25.8 (27.0)
Total shareholders’ equity 23.8 3.5 (0.1) (98.0) 18.5 (0.5) 25.8 (27.0)
Minority interests – – (0.1) – – – – (0.1)
Total equity 23.8 3.5 (0.2) (98.0) 18.5 (0.5) 25.8 (27.1)
1
The other adjustments comprise: the reclassification of purchased software licences with a net book value of £5.6 million from property, plant and equipment to intangible
assets; the reversal of the accrual for the 2004 final dividend, amounting to £25.8 million, from trade and other payables; and the reclassification of the group's convertible 
bonds, amounting to £211.2 million, from non-current to current liabilities.
P86 Consolidated financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Consolidated financial statements  P87
38.3 Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2005
The following table presents a reconciliation of equity on adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005.
£’m
At 31 December 2004 360.6
Convertible bonds restated at fair value 1.6
Forward foreign exchange contracts (0.4)
Recognition of embedded derivatives 0.1
Deferred tax on the above (0.5)
At 1 January 2005 361.4
38.4 Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004
The following table presents a reconciliation of equity on transition to EU-adopted IFRS on 1 January 2004.
£’m
UK GAAP 421.8
Development costs capitalised as intangible assets 2.4
Reclassification of leases from operating to finance leases (0.2)
Employee benefits (71.6)
Reversal of the accrual for 2003 final dividend 25.0
Foreign currencies (0.3)
Deferred tax on the above 11.9
Minority interests on the above (0.1)
IFRS 388.9 P88 Independent auditors’ report  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Independent auditors’ report
Independent auditors’ report to the
members of LogicaCMG plc
We have audited the parent company 
financial statements of LogicaCMG plc for the
year ended 31 December 2005 which
comprise the balance sheet and the related
notes. These parent company financial
statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein. We have
also audited the information in the directors’
remuneration report that is described as having
been audited.
We have reported separately on the group
financial statements of LogicaCMG plc for the
year ended 31 December 2005.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the
annual report, the directors’ remuneration
report and the parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice) are set out in the
statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent
company financial statements and the part of
the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited in accordance with relevant legal and
regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This
report, including the opinion, has been
prepared for and only for the company’s
members as a body in accordance with
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and
for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this
opinion, accept or assume responsibility for
any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose
hands it may come save where expressly
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the
parent company financial statements give a
true and fair view and whether the parent
company financial statements and the part of
the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We
also report to you if, in our opinion, the
directors’ report is not consistent with the
parent company financial statements, if the
company has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law
regarding directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in 
the annual report and consider whether 
it is consistent with the audited parent
company financial statements. The other
information comprises only the chairman’s
statement, the chief executive’s report, the
operating and financial review, the directors’
report, the corporate social responsibility
statement and the corporate governance
statement. We consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies 
with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any 
other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a
test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the parent company
financial statements and the part of the
directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It
also includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the parent
company financial statements, and of whether
the accounting policies are appropriate to the
company's circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to
obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the parent company
financial statements and the part of the
directors’ remuneration report to be audited
are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In
forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the parent company financial
statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give
a true and fair view, in accordance with
United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the
company’s affairs as at 31 December 2005;
and
• the parent company financial statements and
the part of the directors’ remuneration report
to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered
Auditors
London
29 March 2006 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Company financial statements  P89
Company balance sheet
31 December 2005
Restated
2005 2004
Note £’m £’m
Fixed assets
Investments VI 1,227.0 733.2
Current assets
Debtors: amounts due within one year VII 368.3 161.6
Debtors: amounts due after one year VII – 223.1
Cash at bank and in hand 2.7 2.2
371.0 386.9
Creditors - amounts falling due within one year VIII (289.6) (23.3)
Net current assets 81.4 363.6
Total assets less current liabilities 1,308.4 1,096.8
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year VIII – (223.1)
Net assets 1,308.4 873.7
Capital and reserves
Called-up equity share capital X 114.6 75.1
Share premium account XI 1,084.8 707.3
Profit and loss account XI 85.7 68.0
Other reserves XI 23.3 23.3
Equity shareholders’ funds XII 1,308.4 873.7
The company financial statements on pages 89 to 100 were approved by the board of directors on 29 March 2006 and were signed on its behalf by:
Dr M P Read
S Keating
Directors
29 March 2006 P90 Company financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
I. Accounting policies
The following are the principal accounting policies of the company which have been applied consistently throughout the year and the
preceding year, with the exception of the changes in accounting policies discussed below.
Basis of accounting
The company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985
and applicable UK accounting standards.
Changes in accounting policies
The company has adopted the following Financial Reporting Standards (‘FRS’) in these financial statements:
• FRS 17 ‘Retirement benefits’
• FRS 20 ‘Share-based Payment’
• FRS 21 ‘Events after the balance sheet’
• FRS 22 ‘Earnings per share’
• FRS 23 ‘The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates’
• FRS 25 ‘Financial instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’
• FRS 26 ‘Financial instruments: Measurement’
• FRS 28 ‘Corresponding amounts’
The adoption of each of these standards represents a change in accounting policy for the company, although only the adoption of FRS 20, 21,
25 and 26 resulted in an amendment to the company’s balance sheet or profit and loss account for either the current or prior year. 
The accounting policies adopted in the current year have been applied to all periods presented except for those relating to the measurement,
disclosure and presentation of financial instruments, all matters dealt with in FRS 25 and FRS 26. The company has taken an exemption to
apply FRS 25 and FRS 26 prospectively from 1 January 2005. Details of the impact of the changes in accounting policies are given in note II.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries in the company’s balance sheet are held at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Financial instruments
The following policies for financial instruments have been applied in the preparation of the company's financial statements. For those policies
that have changed on adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 on 1 January 2005, policies both before and after adoption are given.
Cash at bank and in hand
Cash at bank and in hand includes short-term deposits with an original maturity period of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are an
integral part of the company’s cash management are included in cash at bank and in hand where they have a legal right of set-off against
positive cash balances, otherwise bank overdrafts are classified as borrowings.
Debtors
Debtors are stated at amounts receivable less any provision for recoverability. A trade or other receivable is derecognised from the balance
sheet when the company enters into a financing transaction which transfers to a third party all significant rights or other access to benefits
relating to that asset, and all significant exposures to the risks inherent in that asset.
Borrowings (1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004)
Borrowings were recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. The finance costs of debt were allocated to financial
periods and charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the borrowings at a constant rate on the carrying amount. Accrued
finance costs were included in accruals rather than in the carrying amount of the borrowing to the extent that they were due to be paid in cash
within one year.
Borrowings (1 January 2005 onwards)
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.  Borrowings are subsequently stated either at amortised cost
or, if designated as such, at fair value through profit or loss. For borrowings stated at amortised cost, any difference between the proceeds,
net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the
effective interest rate method.
Taxation
Corporation tax is payable on taxable profits at amounts expected to be paid, or recovered, under the tax rates and laws that have been
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised to take account of timing differences between the treatment of transactions for financial reporting purposes and
their treatment for tax purposes. A deferred tax asset is only recognised when it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable
taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected 
to reverse, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is
measured on a non-discounted basis. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Company financial statements  P91
I. Accounting policies (continued)
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the company is pounds sterling. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional
currency of the company at the rates prevailing at the dates of the individual transactions. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are
translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange gains and losses arising are charged or credited to the income
statement within net operating costs.
Employee benefits
Retirement benefits
The company participates in retirement benefit plans of a defined contribution nature. The cost of defined contribution plans is charged to the
income statement on the basis of contributions payable by the company during the year.
Share-based payment
The cost of share-based employee compensation arrangements, whereby employees receive remuneration in the form of shares or share
options, is recognised as an employee benefit expense in the profit and loss account.
The total expense to be apportioned over the vesting period of the benefit is determined by reference to the fair value at the grant date of the
shares or share options awarded and the number that are expected to vest. The assumptions underlying the number of awards expected to
vest are subsequently adjusted to reflect conditions prevailing at the balance sheet date. At the vesting date of an award, the cumulative
expense is adjusted to take account of the awards that actually vest.
Other employee benefits
A liability for other employee benefits, such as holiday, is recognised for the amount the company may be required to pay as a result of the
unused entitlement that has accumulated at the balance sheet date.
Employee share ownership trusts
Employee share ownership plan (‘ESOP’) trusts, which purchase and hold ordinary shares of the company in connection with certain employee
share schemes, are included in the company financial statements. Any consideration paid or received by ESOP trusts for the purchase or sale
of the company’s own shares is shown as a movement in shareholders’ equity.
Dividends
Dividends to the company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability and deducted from shareholders’ equity in the period in which the
shareholders’ right to receive payment is established.
II. Effect of changes in accounting policies
FRS 20 ‘Share-based Payment’
The company operates a variety of share-based employee incentive arrangements that include the grant of rights to shares or share options,
further details of which are provided in note XIII. FRS 20 requires that an expense is recognised in the profit and loss account based on the fair
value of a share award or share option on the date of grant. The expense is spread over the period for which services are received from
employees, which is assumed to be the performance period of the award. The fair value of share options is measured using an option-pricing
model. The Black-Scholes model has been used to determine the fair value of options granted under SAYE schemes. A Monte Carlo
simulation model has been used for executive share options.
Previously under Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract (‘UITF’) 17 ‘Employee share schemes’, a charge was recorded only when an award had
intrinsic value on the date of grant i.e. the market value of the company’s shares on the date of grant exceeded the exercise price of the
award. A charge was not recorded for share options schemes as the exercise price of share options was set at the prevailing market price 
on the grant date. A charge was recorded for the employee and executive equity partnership plans under which rights to shares were granted
at no cost to employees, subject to meeting performance conditions.
FRS 20 requires a liability to be recorded for employer social security costs on gains from the exercise of share options. The liability is
measured based on the fair value of non-tax approved share options outstanding at each balance sheet date. Previously, under UITF 25
‘National Insurance contributions on share option gains’, a liability was recognised based on the intrinsic value of share options at the balance
sheet date.
The impact of adopting FRS 20 was to increase the share-based payment expense in the profit and loss account and increase liabilities in the
balance sheet. The effect on the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2005 was to recognise an additional expense of
£0.8 million (2004: £0.5 million). The effect on the balance sheet at 31 December 2004 was to increase liabilities in the balance sheet by £0.2
million and increase related deferred tax assets by £0.1 million. P92 Company financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
II. Effect of changes in accounting policies (continued)
FRS 21 ‘Events after the balance sheet date’
Distributions to equity holders are not recognised in the profit and loss account under FRS 21, they are disclosed as a component of the
movement in shareholders’ equity. Previously, dividends were recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account.
A liability is recorded for a final dividend when the dividend is approved by the company’s shareholders, and for an interim dividend when the
dividend is paid. Previously, an accrual was made for dividends that were proposed by directors after the balance sheet date but prior to the
date of the signing of the financial statements and a corresponding expense was recognised.
The impact on the balance sheet of adopting FRS 21 was to remove the accrual of £25.8 million for the 2004 proposed final dividend
previously recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2004.
The effect of the changes in accounting policies on adoption on FRS 20 and FRS 21 on the profit and loss account and balance sheet 
is summarised below:
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Profit and loss account
Net operating costs (0.8) (0.5)
Decrease in profit for the year (0.8) (0.5)
2004
£’m
Balance sheet
Debtors 0.1
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 25.6
Increase in net assets 25.7
FRS 25 and FRS 26 – Financial instruments
The company has a commitment to issue new ordinary shares on conversion of the convertible bonds issued by LogicaCMG (Jersey) Limited,
another group company (see note 22 of the consolidated financial statements). The impact of adopting FRS 25 and FRS 26 was to recognise
a financial liability for the call option over the company’s ordinary shares.
The fair value of the call option was measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, with the following assumptions used at 31
December 2005 and 1 January 2005:
31 December 1 January
2005 2005
Share price on measurement date £1.77 £1.93
Exercise price £3.24 £3.73
Expected volatility 56% 59%
Expected life (years) 2.7 3.7
Risk free rate 2.9% 2.8%
Dividend yield 2.9% 2.1%
Expected volatility was determined using the historical volatility of the company’s share price. The period from 1 July 1999 to 30 June 2001
was excluded as management believe it represented a period of high share price volatility which is unlikely to be repeated in the future.
The effect on the balance sheet was to increase financial liabilities, and reduce reserves, at 1 January 2005 by £26.2 million, together with a
reduction in the corporation tax debtor of £2.2 million and a related increase in deferred tax assets of £2.2 million. The effect on the profit and
loss account for the year ended 31 December 2005 was to increase interest payable and other similar charges by £7.1 million.
The company has taken advantage of the exemptions available in FRS 13 para 3(b) and FRS 25 para 3(c)(b) not to disclose any information
relating to financial instruments as the company’s financial statements are included in publicly available consolidated financial statements.
III. Profit attributable to the company
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no separate profit and loss account is presented in respect of the company. 
The profit for the financial year for the company was £86.7 million (2004 restated: £88.1 million).   LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Company financial statements  P93
IV. Employees and directors
Staff costs for the year amounted to:
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 2.8 0.9
Social security costs 0.3 0.3
Pension costs 0.4 0.2
Share-based payments (note XIII) 0.8 0.6
4.3 2.0
The average monthly number of employees, including directors, during the year ended 31 December 2005 was 14 (2004: 11). For further
information about the directors of the company, refer to the directors’ biographies on pages 20 to 21 and for details of directors’ emoluments
and share interests refer to the report of the remuneration committee on pages 31 to 38.
V. Dividends
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005 of 3.2 pence per share, which would reduce
shareholders’ funds by £36.2 million. The proposed dividend is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2006 and has
not been recognised as a liability in these financial statements. The proposed final dividend has been set at a level that reflects the bonus
element of the rights issue that took place in November 2005.
The amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders were as follows:
Restated Restated
2005 2004 2005 2004
p / share p / share £’m £’m
Interim dividend, relating to 2005 / 2004 * 2.11 2.02 17.7 16.9
Final dividend, relating to 2004 / 2003 * 3.08 2.99 25.8 25.0
5.19 5.01 43.5 41.9
* Dividends per share have been restated for the bonus element of the rights issue.
Dividends payable to employee share ownership trusts are excluded from the amounts recognised as distributions in the table above.
VI. Investments
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Subsidiary undertakings 1,017.3 733.2
Associate 209.7 – 
1,227.0 733.2
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Shares Loans Total 
Cost £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2005 176.8 556.4 733.2
Additions 48.6 787.5 836.1
Disposals (0.5) (545.2) (545.7)
At 31 December 2005 224.9 798.7 1,023.6
Impairments £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2005 –––
Impairment during the year (6.3) – (6.3)
At 31 December 2005 (6.3) – (6.3)
Net book value £’m £’m £’m
At 31 December 2005 218.6 798.7 1,017.3
At 31 December 2004 176.8 556.4 733.2
During the year, the company’s direct, wholly-owned investment in Logica Holdings Limited, a holding company incorporated in the United
Kingdom, was fully impaired following a loss in value of certain trading subsidiaries owned indirectly by Logica Holdings Limited. P94 Company financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
VI. Investments (continued)
At 31 December 2005, the company held, directly or indirectly, 100 per cent (except where shown) of the ordinary issued share capital of the
following principal subsidiary undertakings:
Incorporated in England: Incorporated in Jersey:
LogicaCMG UK Limited LogicaCMG (Jersey) Limited
CMG UK Limited *
LogicaCMG Wireless Networks Limited Incorporated in Ireland:
LogicaCMG Limited *
Incorporated in the Netherlands:
LogicaCMG Nederland BV * Incorporated in the Czech Republic:
LogicaCMG BV * LogicaCMG s.r.o. *
LogicaCMG Business Process Outsourcing BV *
LogicaCMG Wireless Networks BV * Incorporated in Australia:
LogicaCMG Pty Limited*
Incorporated in Germany:
LogicaCMG GmbH & Co KG * Incorporated in Japan:
LogicaCMG KK *
Incorporated in France:
LogicaCMG SAS * Incorporated in the United States:
LogicaCMG Inc *
Incorporated in Belgium:
LogicaCMG NV / SA* Incorporated in India:
LogicaCMG Private Limited *
Incorporated in Portugal:
Edinfor – Sistemas Informáticos, S.A. * ^
* Subsidiaries not directly held by the company.
^ 60 per cent holding.
Investment in associate
£’m
At 1 January 2005 – 
Additions 209.7
At 31 December 2005 209.7
At 31 December 2005, the company’s investment in associate comprised a 32.3 per cent economic interest in the ordinary shares of Unilog
S.A. (‘Unilog’), a company incorporated in France. Due to the existence of shares with double voting rights, the company’s 32.3 per cent
economic interest in Unilog equated to ownership of 27.2 per cent of the voting rights. The Unilog group of companies is a leading IT services
provider of management and IT consultancy, systems integration, outsourcing and training services based in France and with overseas offices
in Germany, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Austria and Luxembourg.
The company’s interest in Unilog was purchased on 25 October 2005 for the issue of 19,572,703 new ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the
company, valued at 143.5 pence per share, and cash consideration of £172.5 million. The total cost of investment of £209.7 million included 
£9.1 million of attributable expenses.
The aggregate amount of capital and reserves of Unilog at 31 December 2005, from its consolidated financial statements under IFRS, was
£145.1 million and the net profit for the year then ended was £26.2 million. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Company financial statements  P95
VII. Debtors
Restated
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 356.6 372.4
Deferred tax asset 2.3 0.1
Corporation tax recoverable 9.4 12.1
Other debtors – 0.1
368.3 384.7
At 31 December 2004, the company had debtors due after one year of £223.1 million, which related solely to amounts due from subsidiary
undertakings. The directors estimate that the carrying value of financial assets within debtors approximated their fair value.
VIII. Creditors
Restated
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 260.4 22.1
Other financial liabilities (note II) 19.1 – 
Accruals and other creditors 10.1 1.2
289.6 23.3
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings – 223.1
– 223.1
The directors estimate that the carrying value of financial liabilities within creditors approximated their fair value.
IX. Deferred tax
The movement on the deferred tax asset during the year was as follows:
£’m
At 1 January 2005 0.1
Credit to the profit and loss account 2.2
At 31 December 2005 2.3
At 31 December, deferred tax was recognised as follows:
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Other financial liabilities 2.2 – 
Share-based payment arrangements 0.1 0.1
2.3 0.1 P96 Company financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
X. Share capital
2005 2004
Authorised £’m £’m
1,750,000,000 (2004: 1,100,000,000) ordinary shares of 10p each 175.0 110.0
2005 2004
Number £’m Number £’m
At 1 January 750,915,581 75.1 749,846,818 75.0
Allotted under share option schemes 255,221 – 1,068,763 0.1
Allotted to acquire associate interest in Unilog 19,572,703 2.0 – – 
Rights issue 375,495,147 37.5 – – 
At 31 December 1,146,238,652 114.6 750,915,581 75.1
On 25 October 2005, the company issued 19,572,703 shares as part of a transaction to acquire approximately 32.3 per cent of the ordinary
share capital of Unilog. The company subsequently issued 375,495,147 new ordinary shares of 10 pence each issued in a fully underwritten 1
for 2 rights issue to part fund the public tender offer for the remaining 67.7 per cent of Unilog ordinary shares. Dealings in rights issue shares,
fully paid, commenced on Euronext Amsterdam on 4 November 2005 and on the London Stock Exchange on 7 November 2005. The
proceeds from the rights issue were £388.7 million, net of expenses of £13.1 million, of which £37.5 million was credited to share capital and
£351.2 million was credited to the share premium account.
During the year, the 255,221 new ordinary shares, with a nominal value of £25,522, were issued under employee share schemes as follows:
Exercise
price Number
Year of grant of option p / share exercised
1996 166.1 21,436
2002 122.0 39,000
2002 92.0 14,277
2002 107.2 89,876
2002 80.9 5,305
2003 83.5 85,327
Prior to the rights issue in November 2005, 13,952,490 options were granted over un-issued and existing shares under employee share option
schemes. Options were granted at prices ranging from 164 pence to 181 pence and are exercisable from 2008 to 2012. Options granted
under SAYE schemes and discretionary options were granted at market price. Of the options granted during the year, 7,823,500 options
granted at 158 pence, 490,000 options granted at 143 pence and 311,000 options granted at 156 pence only become exercisable in full if the
growth in the group’s earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and all exceptional items other than restructuring costs over the relevant
three-year performance period exceeds the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index over that period by an average of at least 7 per cent per
annum. No share options were granted in 2005 subsequent to the rights issue.
During the year, awards were made over 209,680 shares under the Employee Equity Partnership Plan (‘EmEPP’) and 11,351 shares under the
Executive Equity Partnership Plan (‘ExEPP’). Refer to note XIII for further information on the company’s share schemes.
At 31 December 2005, there were rights to the allotment of 40,479,005 shares under employee share schemes at prices ranging from 81
pence to 2,355 pence, exercisable between 2006 and 2014. At 31 December 2004, there were rights to the allotment of 28,507,821 shares
under employee share schemes at prices ranging from 92 pence to 2,838 pence and exercisable between 2005 and 2014.
The company holds treasury shares in discretionary trusts which were set up for the benefit of LogicaCMG employees. The trusts purchase the
company’s shares in the market for use in connection with the group’s all-employee and discretionary share option schemes, long-term bonus
scheme and equity partnership plans.
At 31 December 2005, the employee trusts owned 15,741,068 shares (2004: 13,993,706) with a nominal value of £1.6 million (2004: £1.4
million). Of this holding, 5,209,566 shares were under option to employees (2004: 7,256,081) and 831,479 were held for the equity partnership
plans (2004: 791,281).
The trustees of the CMG ESOP Trust and the Logica ESOP Trust have agreed to waive the right to future dividends on shares of the company
held by the trusts except for a nominal amount. At 31 December 2005, the nominal amount payable to both trusts was 0.001 pence per
share. Waiver of dividends payable during the year amounted to £0.8 million (2004: £0.8 million). The market value of the shares owned by
employee trusts, based on the mid-price at 31 December 2005 was £27.9 million (2004: £27.0 million).
Allotted, called-up and fully paid LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Company financial statements  P97
XI. Capital and reserves
Share
capital Profit
Share premium and loss Special
capital account account reserve Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 31 December 2004 75.1 707.3 42.3 23.3 848.0
Prior year adjustments (see note II) – – 25.7 – 25.7
At 31 December 2004 (restated) 75.1 707.3 68.0 23.3 873.7
Adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 – – (26.2) – (26.2)
At 1 January 2005 75.1 707.3 41.8 23.3 847.5
Shares issued during the year, net of expenses 39.5 377.5 – – 417.0
Net profit for the year – – 86.7 – 86.7
Dividends paid – – (43.5) – (43.5)
Share-based payment – – 0.7 – 0.7
At 31 December 2005 114.6 1,084.8 85.7 23.3 1,308.4
XII. Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Restated
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Profit for the financial year 86.7 88.1
Dividends paid (43.5) (41.9)
43.2 46.2
Shares issued during the year, net of expenses 417.0 1.5
Other movements in reserves 0.7 0.5
Net increase in shareholders funds for the year 460.9 48.2
Shareholders’ funds at the beginning of the year 873.7 825.5
Adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 (26.2) – 
Shareholders’ funds at the end of the year 1,308.4 873.7
The shareholders’ funds at 31 December 2004 as previously reported amounted to £848.0 million before an increase resulting from prior year
adjustments of £25.7 million (see note II).
XIII. Share-based payment
Equity-settled share-based payment arrangements 
The company operates four equity-settled share-based payment arrangements: the Executive Share Option Scheme (‘ESOS’), the Sharesave
scheme, the Executive Equity Partnership Plan (‘ExEPP’) and the Employee Equity Partnership Plan (‘EmEPP’). A summary of the main terms 
of the arrangements is given below, with particular reference to the terms of those grants for which a share-based payment expense has 
been recognised.
Executive Share Option Scheme
Option grants under the ESOS are made to senior executives and managers across the company, as well as to staff with high potential 
or to recognise significant achievements. Options will normally be exercisable between three and ten years following grant, provided that 
a performance condition, specified at the date of grant, has been satisfied. Typically, growth in the group’s earnings per share over the relevant
performance period is required to exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index by at least 21 per cent for the performance condition to be met.
ESOS option grants prior to 2005 have a maximum seven year exercise period, however, option grants in 2005 have a four year exercise
period. Retesting of performance conditions may be carried out twice for 2003 option grants, once for 2004 option grants and no retesting is
permitted on grants made in 2005.
The exercise price of ESOS options is generally at least equal to the mid-market price of the company’s shares on the date of grant, although
the pricing mechanism varies slightly for grants to French employees.
Sharesave Scheme
The company operates a savings-related share-option scheme under which employees enter into a savings contract with a financial institution
to pay a fixed monthly sum for either a three or, for grants before 4 October 2002, five year period. Share options are granted, at an exercise
price at least equal to the mid-market price of the company’s shares on the date of grant, such that the aggregate exercise price payable is
equal to the expected proceeds on maturity of the savings contract. Share options may be exercised within six months of the vesting date.
There are no performance conditions attached to sharesave scheme options. P98 Company financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
XIII. Share-based payment (continued)
Equity Partnership Plans
The company operates an equity partnership plan for senior executives, the ExEPP, and an equity partnership plan open to all employees 
in certain countries, the EmEPP, the terms of which are similar. Under the equity partnership plans, employees make an investment in the
company’s shares, subject to financial limits, which must be maintained over a three year vesting period. Awards of a matching number of
shares are made at nil cost to employees and are exercisable for up to seven years after the vesting date, after which the award will lapse.
Vesting will occur for those participants employed at the vesting date, subject to a performance condition being met. The performance
conditions vary by scheme and grant date. Typically, growth in the group’s earnings per share must exceed the growth in the Retail Price 
Index by between 3 per cent and 7 per cent per annum, dependant on the scheme and grant date, in each year in the performance period 
for the award to vest in full. The Remuneration Committee may, at its discretion, allow matching awards under the EmEPP to vest pro rata 
if performance conditions are met in only one or two years out of the three year performance period.
A reconciliation of the movement in the number of share options and share awards held by employees and directors of the company 
is shown below:
2005
Share options Share awards
Weighted 
average
exercise
Number of price Number of
shares £ shares
Outstanding at 1 January 2005 4,316,726 3.86 54,285
Granted 1,200,000 1.81 – 
Exercised – – (8)
Forfeited (4,286) 2.26 – 
Expired (2,690) 6.27 – 
Outstanding at 9 October 2005 5,509,750 3.41 54,277
Impact of rights issue 758,693 (0.41) 7,474
Outstanding at 9 October 2005 6,268,443 3.00 61,751
Expired (610) 5.51 – 
Outstanding at 31 December 2005 6,267,833 3.00 61,751
Exercisable at 31 December 2005 1,130,466 3.11 15,362
2004
Share options Share awards
Weighted 
average
exercise
Number of price Number of
shares £ shares
Outstanding at 1 January 2004 4,322,583 3.86 13,582
Granted 705 2.67 40,774
Expired (6,562) 2.99 (71)
Outstanding at 31 December 2004 4,316,726 3.86 54,285
Exercisable at 31 December 2004 993,641 3.54 13,503
The number of share options outstanding on 9 October 2005 and their respective exercise prices were adjusted to take account of the bonus
element of the rights issue during 2005. The exercise price of share options outstanding was repriced by applying an adjustment factor of
0.87896. In addition, the number of share options outstanding was increased for each share option holder, in proportion to their holding, by
the reciprocal factor of 1.13770. The adjustment factor of 1.13770 was also applied to the number of shares awards outstanding under the
Equity Partnership Plans on the same date. Where the adjustment to the number of share options and awards did not give rise to a whole
number, the number of share options and awards were rounded down to the nearest whole number on an individual-by-individual basis.
The adjustments to the exercise price of share options and the number of share options and share awards did not have a material impact on
the aggregate fair value of share options and share awards outstanding. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Company financial statements  P99
XIII. Share-based payment (continued)
The exercise price and remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at the balance sheet date was as follows:
2005
Weighted Weighted 
average average
exercise remaining
price contractual life Number of 
Range of exercise prices £ Years shares 
More than £1.00 and less than £2.00 1.34 6.3 2,909,773
More than £2.00 and less than £5.00 2.77 5.6 2,380,617
More than £5.00 and less than £10.00 6.53 4.5 777,780
More than £10.00 16.26 4.8 199,663
3.00 5.8 6,267,833
2004
Weighted Weighted 
average average
exercise remaining
price contractual life Number of 
Range of exercise prices £ Years shares 
Less than £1.00 0.92 3.6 3,213
More than £1.00 and less than £2.00 1.94 8.0 2,561,026
More than £2.00 and less than £5.00 3.74 3.7 889,048
More than £5.00 and less than £10.00 7.42 5.5 687,859
More than £10.00 18.50 5.8 175,580
3.86 6.6 4,316,726
The fair value of share options and share awards granted in the 2005 and 2004 financial years and the assumptions used in the calculation of
their fair value on the date of grant were as follows:
2005 2004
Executive
Executive Equity
Share Option Sharesave Partnership
Weighted average assumption Scheme Scheme Plan
Share price on date of grant £1.80 £2.67 £2.60
Exercise price £1.80 £2.67 nil
Share options / awards granted in the year 1,200,000 705 40,774
Vesting period (years) 3.0 3.1 3.0
Expected volatility 59% 63% – 
Expected life (years) Note 1 3.3 3.0
Risk free rate 4.6% 4.5% – 
Dividend yield 3.2% 2.1% 2.2%
Fair value per share option / award £0.77 £1.13 £2.43
1
The expected exercise behaviour of ESOS option holders for grants made in 2005 is as follows: 60 per cent of participants exercise after 3 years and 25 per cent after 6 years,
subject to the market share price being at least 20 per cent over the option exercise price. The balance are exercised after 10 years, providing the options are in the money.
The fair value of ESOS options was measured using a Monte Carlo simulation model and the fair value of Sharesave scheme options was
measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value of share awards under the Equity Partnership Plans was measured 
at the market share price at the date of grant reduced for the present value of expected dividends over the vesting period, for which award
holders have no entitlement.
Expected volatility was determined using the historical volatility of the company’s share price over a period commensurate with the expected
life of the share option. The period from 1 July 1999 to 30 June 2001 was excluded as management believe it represented a period of high
share price volatility which is unlikely to be repeated in the future.
Share awards under the Equity Partnership Plans are assumed to be exercised on the vesting date. Sharesave options are assumed to be
exercised three months after the vesting date, the mid-point of the contractual exercise period.
At the date of grant, it is assumed that performance conditions will be met in full. Adjustments are made subsequently, where necessary, to
reflect updated assessments of whether performance conditions will be met and the final determination on the vesting date. The share-based
payment expense also takes account of expected forfeiture from the balance sheet date to the end of the vesting period following cessation 
of employment. A weighted average forfeiture rate of 10 per cent per annum was assumed for calculating the share-based payment expense
for the year ended 31 December 2005 (2004: 5 per cent).
The company recognised a total expense in respect of equity-settled share-based payment arrangements of £0.7 million in the year ended 
31 December 2005 (2004: £0.5 million). P100 Company financial statements  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
XIII. Share-based payment (continued)
Cash-settled share-based payment arrangements
The company does not operate separate cash-settled share-based payments arrangements, however, social security obligations arising on
share option and share award schemes are treated as such an arrangement for accounting purposes. The liability for cash-settled share-based
social security payments at 31 December 2005 was £0.3 million (2004: £0.2 million). The movement in the liability resulted in an expense for
the year ended 31 December 2005 of £0.1 million (2004: £0.1 million).
XIV. Contingent liabilities
The company has guaranteed certain contracts in the normal course of business and bank borrowings of its subsidiaries. It has also provided
guarantees to vendors in respect of the deferred element on acquisitions.
XV. Related party transactions
The company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 ‘Related Party Transactions’ from disclosing transactions with other members of
the group headed by LogicaCMG plc. Transactions with the directors of the company are disclosed in the remuneration committee report on
pages 31 to 38. There were no other related party transactions during the current or prior year.
XVI. Events after the balance sheet 
After the balance sheet date, the company reached an agreement to dispose of its investment in Unilog to another LogicaCMG group
company. The consideration for the sale was satisfied by the allotment of new shares from the group company with a value of £205.0 million.
The disposal transaction completed on 11 January 2006. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Euro translation  P101
Euro translation of consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005
2004
€’m
2005
€’m
p/share p/share
Euro translation of selected financial information
The group has presented a translation of the consolidated income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement into euros to assist users
of the financial statements more familiar with that currency. The income statement and cash flow statement in euros have been calculated by
converting the sterling figures to euros at an average rate of €1.46 to £1 (2004: €1.47 to £1). The balance sheet has been calculated by
converting the sterling figures to euros at the closing rate of €1.46 to £1 (2004: €1.41 to £1).
Continuing operations:
Revenue
Net operating costs
Operating profit
Analysed as:
Operating profit before exceptional items
Profit on property sale and leaseback
Property reorganisation expense
Restructuring costs
Loss on disposal of business
Operating profit
Interest payable
Interest receivable
Share of post-tax profits from associates
Profit before tax
Taxation
Profit for the year from continuing operations
Discontinued operation:
Loss from discontinued operation
Net profit for the year
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent
Minority interests
Earnings per share *
– Basic
– Diluted
Earnings per share from continuing operations *
– Basic
– Diluted
* Restated for the bonus element of the rights issue that took place in November 2005.
2,677.8
(2,502.5)
175.3
176.2
9.5
(10.4)
–
–
175.3
(35.3)
11.0
3.2
154.2
(52.6)
101.6
–
101.6
97.2
4.4
101.6
10.8
10.8
10.8
10.8
2,437.8
(2,322.3)
115.5
144.4
–
–
(26.2)
(2.7)
115.5
(29.8)
7.9
–
93.6
(42.3)
51.3
(14.3)
37.0
36.2
0.8
37.0
4.3
4.3
6.0
6.0 P102 Euro translation  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Euro translation of consolidated balance sheet
31 December 2005
See page 101 for basis of translation.
Non-current assets
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Investments in associates and joint ventures
Other investments
Retirement benefit assets
Deferred tax assets
Current assets
Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Current tax assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Non-current assets classified as held for sale
Current liabilities
Convertible debt
Other borrowings
Trade and other payables
Current tax liabilities
Provisions
Liabilities associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale
Net current assets
Total assets less current liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
Retirement benefit obligations
Deferred tax liabilities
Provisions
Other non-current liabilities
Net assets
Equity
Share capital
Share premium account
Other reserves
Total shareholders’ equity
Minority interests
Total equity
503.8
12.8
107.8
–
12.0
9.2
47.0
692.6
1.6
799.4
55.6
147.9
1,004.5
4.5
1,009.0
(297.8)
(38.2)
(515.0)
(39.3)
(19.2)
(909.5)
(4.2)
(913.7)
95.3
787.9
(93.9)
(111.6)
(63.9)
(8.7)
(1.4)
(279.5)
508.4
105.9
997.3
(598.0)
505.2
3.2
508.4
2004
€’m
2005
€’m
559.8
36.9
149.7
446.0
13.4
22.3
52.6
1,280.7
3.5
947.8
31.0
358.1
1,340.4
–
1,340.4
(299.3)
(27.0)
(658.2)
(20.7)
(9.8)
(1,015.0)
–
(1,015.0)
352.4
1,606.1
(172.1)
(113.7)
(82.2)
(12.1)
(1.5)
(381.6)
1,224.5
167.3
1,583.8
(553.8)
1,197.3
27.2
1,224.5 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Euro translation  P103
Euro translation of consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005
See page 101 for basis of translation.
Cash flows from operating activities
Net cash inflow from trading operations
Cash inflow from non-recourse financing
Cash outflow related to property reorganisation expense
Cash outflow related to restructuring activities
Cash generated from operations
Interest paid
Income tax paid
Net cash inflow from operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Purchases of property, plant and equipment
Expenditure on intangible assets
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired)
Acquisition of investment in an associate
Disposal of investment in joint venture
Disposal of business
Net cash outflow from investing activities
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of new shares
Proceeds from sale of nil paid rights / treasury shares by ESOP trusts
Purchase of treasury shares by ESOP trusts
Proceeds from bank borrowings
Repayments of bank borrowings
Repayments of finance lease principal
Repayments of borrowings assumed in acquisitions
Repayments of other borrowings
Dividends paid to the company’s shareholders
Dividends paid to minority interests
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from financing activities
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
Effect of foreign exchange rates
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
175.8
7.4
–
(34.9)
148.3
(24.8)
(38.5)
85.0
2.9
4.4
(37.0)
(7.4)
(0.7)
–
0.6
–
(37.2)
2.2
0.1
–
35.9
(54.2)
(5.3)
–
(1.9)
(61.7)
(2.9)
(87.8)
(40.0)
191.3
(40.0)
(1.0)
150.3
2004
€’m
2005
€’m
264.0
–
(1.2)
(19.0)
243.8
(29.5)
(43.6)
170.7
5.1
15.5
(44.1)
(10.4)
(54.3)
(389.5)
–
(1.6)
(479.3)
571.1
2.8
(2.8)
354.5
(329.4)
(5.4)
(16.5)
(0.7)
(63.5)
(1.3)
508.8
200.2
150.3
200.2
7.6
358.1 P104 Shareholder information  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Shareholder information
Financial calendar
2006
1 March Preliminary results announced
13 April Annual report and AGM notice posted to shareholders
19 April Ex dividend date
21 April Share register closed (record date)
17 May Annual general meeting 3:00pm
London Underwriting Centre
3 Minster Court
Mincing Lane
London EC3R 7DD
18 May Final dividend paid to shareholders
19 May Informative shareholders’ meeting
The Netherlands
30 August Interim results announced
20 September Ex dividend date
22 September Share register closed (record date)
20 October Interim dividend paid
Shareholder information online
LogicaCMG’s registrars are able to notify shareholders by email of the availability of an electronic version of shareholder information. Whenever new
shareholder information becomes available, such as LogicaCMG’s interim and full-year results, Capita Registrars will notify you by email and you will be
able to access, read and print documents at your own convenience. Notices of shareholder meetings and proxy forms will continue to be posted to you.
To register your interest, please go to www.capitaregistrars.com, select ‘Shareholder Services’, select ‘Online Services’ and ‘Shareholder Login’ and follow
the prompts. You will be asked to enter your unique ‘Investor Code’, which you will find at the top of your proxy card. This can also be obtained from your
dividend tax voucher, share certificate, or from Capita Registrars at the address below.
Should you change your mind at a later date, you may cancel your request to receive electronic communication by contacting Capita Registrars by post
or through their website. If you wish to continue receiving shareholder information in the usual printed form, there is no need to take any action.
Registrars
Capita Registrars 
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
HD8 0LA
United Kingdom
www.capitaregistrars.com
tel: 0870 162 3131 (from outside the UK: +44 20 8639 2157)
fax: +44 (0) 1484 600911
Information for investors
Information for investors is provided on the Internet as part of the group’s website which can be found at: www.logicacmg.com/investors
Investor enquiries
Enquiries can be directed via our website or by contacting our investor relations departments in London or Amstelveen:
Karen Keyes Frances Gibbons Heleen Kamerman
Head of investor relations Investor relations officer (UK) Investor relations officer (NL)
tel: +44 (0) 20 7446 4372 tel: +44 (0) 20 7446 4341 tel: +31 (0) 20 503 3000
fax: +44 (0) 20 7872 9947 fax: +44 (0) 20 7872 9947 fax: +31 (0) 20 571 3410
email: karen.keyes@logicacmg.com email: frances.gibbons@logicacmg.com email: heleen.kamerman@logicacmg.com
LogicaCMG plc
Registered office : Stephenson House, 75 Hampstead Road, London NW1 2PL.  Registered in England. No. 1631639. LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 P105
Produced by: LogicaCMG corporate communications, London.
Design: Wardour Publishing & Design. www.wardour.co.uk
Print: St Ives Westerham Press. LogicaCMG plc
Registered office:
Stephenson House
75 Hampstead Road
London NW1 2PL
UK
Registered in England
No. 1631639
