 Annual Report 2009
www.londonmining.co.uk
London Mining Plc
39 Sloane Street
London
United Kingdom SW1X 9LP 
Phone: +44 (0) 20 7201 5000
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7201 5050
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Developing Mines to Supply the Global Steel Industry London Mining is focussed on identifying, 
developing and operating scaleable mines to 
become a mid-tier supplier to the global steel 
industry. Its four principal iron ore assets in 
Sierra Leone, Saudi Arabia, Greenland and 
China all have deliverable production with 
potential for expansion. The Company listed 
on the Oslo Axess on 9 October 2007 and 
on London AIM on 6 November 2009 .
Overview 
 
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
03 Chief Executive’s Statement
Business Review
06 Our Strategy
08 Company Assets at a Glance
10 Our Markets
12 Our People
14 Operations: Sierra Leone
16 Operations: Saudi Arabia
18 Operations: Greenland
20 Operations: China
21 Operations: Other assets
22 Financial Review
26 Principal risks and uncertainties
28 Corporate Social Responsibility
Corporate 
Governance
30 Board of Directors
32 Senior Management
34 Directors’ Report
36 Corporate Governance Statement
39 Directors’ Remuneration Report
43 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
44  Independent Auditors’ Report
Financial 
Statements
45 Consolidated Income Statement
46 Consolidated Balance Sheet
47  Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity
48 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
49  Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
77 Company Balance Sheet
78  Company Statement of Changes 
in Equity
79 Company Cash Flow Statement
80  Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements
82 Officers and Professional Advisors 01
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Highlights for the year ending 31 December 2009
Projects
25 year mining lease received for Marampa, Sierra Leone >
JORC compliant resources at Wadi Sawawin, Saudi Arabia and  >
Isua, Greenland
Feasibility study completed for Wadi Sawawin  >
Attributable production of 136,500 tonnes from Chinese joint  >
venture since acquisition
Financial
AIM listing and placing of 37 million existing shares at GBP 74m  >
with over 30 new institutional investors
Group consolidated cash of USD 205m as at 31 December 2009 >
USD 44.5m Chinese joint venture acquisition   >
(effective April 2009)
Group loss from continuing operations reduced to USD 28.6m  >
(2008: USD 36.8m) reflecting EBITDA from China of USD 6.0m
Highlights for the period post 31 December 2009
Projects
JORC compliant resources at Marampa (tailings) >
Final approvals received and construction commenced   >
at Marampa 
Prefeasibility study completed and increased 951Mt JORC  >
resource at Isua
Discussions initiated with potential providers of funding and  >
offtake at Wadi Sawawin
Financial
Restructuring of equity investment in DMC South African   >
coal completed 02
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
London Mining achieved notable 
progress in 2009 from both a 
corporate perspective and on the 
ground at our key iron ore projects 
in Sierra Leone, Saudi Arabia, 
Greenland and China. Advances 
made over the past year leave the 
business well positioned to deliver 
on our stated strategy of becoming 
a mid-tier supplier to the global 
steel industry. 
Of particular note during the year was the successful conclusion 
of the AIM listing. The associated placing of 37 million existing 
shares in November resulted in the addition of over 30 new 
institutional shareholders to our register and a resulting free 
float of approximately 70% of the issued shares, reflecting 
positively on our assets, the executive team and our corporate 
strategy. 
The people, policies and procedures we continued to put in 
place during the year under review provide a strong base for 
London Mining to manage its growth. We aim to follow 
international best practice in our commitment to our employees, 
the communities we work with and the environment by 
developing and implementing a Corporate Environment Health 
Safety and Community (“EHSC”) policy. This is based on 
careful analysis and internationally recognised standards 
including the Equator Principles.
Chairman’s Statement
Very important progress has been made at Marampa, Sierra 
Leone. London Mining was issued with a new 25 year mining 
licence in August 2009 and in early 2010 was awarded all 
necessary approvals to commence construction. On 11 March 
2010, a national celebration attended by the President of Sierra 
Leone, his cabinet, parliamentarians and representatives of all 
149 Paramount Chiefs, marked the commencement of major 
development works in full. This ceremony demonstrated the 
ongoing support and commitment to both London Mining and 
the project by the Government and more broadly, the people of 
Sierra Leone as a whole. Substantial work has been carried out 
on the licence, with extensive studies performed to confirm the 
expected resource potential. Construction of the haul road to 
the proposed port loading facility is well advanced laying the 
groundwork for first production in 2011 and for eventual 
expansion to over 5Mtpa. 
Also of note during the year was the Group’s return to 
production following the acquisition, effective 23 April 2009, of 
a 50% share in an operating iron ore mine in the People’s 
Republic of China. Although currently a small operation, with 
capacity of 300,000 tonnes of iron ore concentrates, this 
investment provides the Group with accelerated growth 
opportunities through local regional consolidation. We expect 
to report more progress on this during 2010.
Our success has been based on the exceptional technical 
capability of our people. Investment in the right people is the 
cornerstone of our strategy. Fundamental to the development of 
our projects is the capacity of our COO, Luciano Ramos and his 
technical team. As the Group continues to expand, we have 
augmented the senior executives in our technical team since 
year end, with the addition of a deputy COO and I would like to 
use this opportunity to welcome Felix Kayat to the team.
The strengthening of our technical team enables us to enter the 
critical development stages at our four principal projects as well 
as enabling us to react quickly to other opportunities. The 
performance of Luciano’s team is directly reflected in our 
delivery of key milestones at all our projects: notably the 
establishment of JORC resources at our three projects which are 
operated by London Mining; a bankable feasibility study at 
Wadi Sawawin; and a prefeasibility study at Isua. 
Colin Knight
Chairman 03
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our credentials have been demonstrated by the USD 669 
million profit generated on our USD 40 million equity 
investment from the sale of London Mining Brasil to Arcelor 
Mittal in 2008. In this case, London Mining’s acquisition of an 
asset with the potential for rapid and scaleable development, 
combined with the application of technical development 
expertise and judicious use of capital led to the rapid 
transformation from a modest family run mine into a 4Mtpa 
operation with expansion potential to 12Mtpa. The sale of this 
operation allowed the Company to return substantial profits to 
shareholders in the form of a GBP 220 million special dividend 
and put the Company in a solid financial position at the 
beginning of 2009 to push forward development of our other 
high value projects. 
London Mining applies the approach employed in Brazil to all 
of our core assets and we are steadily progressing our goal to 
become a substantial mid-tier supplier of core bulk commodities 
to the steel industry. To do this we must and do have: strong 
projects, first class technical and operating teams and the 
funding to drive development of each project to production or 
key milestones.
Today, London Mining has four principal iron ore projects from 
which we aim, through staged development, to produce together 
over 25Mtpa of iron ore concentrates. Key features of our 
projects are:
Scaleable – large resource base allows expansion through 
organic growth at low capital cost.
Deliverable logistics – when absent in bulk commodities 
projects, or in the control of non-aligned third parties, poor 
logistics is too often the reason why good resources are left 
undeveloped. 
Potential for rapid development – near term production and 
cash flow from projects with existing resources, brownfield 
operations, or unoptimised operating mines. 
First class management is vital to the successful implementation 
of our projects. London Mining has established extremely 
capable and results driven technical and operating teams 
committed to achieving the Company’s production and 
development objectives. In 2009, we have built out this team 
substantially, attracting highly experienced professionals from 
Vale, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto as well as from leading 
engineering companies. The expertise of our technical services 
team allows for synergies across the Group’s projects. Individual 
projects have dedicated personnel with relevant expertise 
allowing us to operate highly effectively in each location.
Over the last 12 months, we have advanced all of our projects 
despite the prevailing uncertainty in the financial markets. 
London Mining is now extremely well placed to benefit from the 
London Mining’s core expertise is in 
identifying, rapidly developing and 
operating mines for the global steel 
industry. We have a clear strategy 
and established methodology to 
deliver exceptional value. 04
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
CGMR Marampa Wadi Sawawin Isua
excellent fundamentals and resulting pricing expectations for 
iron ore through the development of its projects in Sierra Leone, 
Saudi Arabia, Greenland and China.
In Sierra Leone, construction has commenced to restart 
production at the previously producing Marampa mine. The 
Marampa project embodies our core principles perfectly: we are 
moving rapidly to production and cash flow from beneficiation 
of the tailings resource to produce high quality sinter feed. Once 
in cash flow, we plan to expand production volume from 
tailings, then expand again with production from the primary 
ore body. Our current target of 5–8Mtpa sustained production 
capacity from 2013 is being well supported by the results of our 
ongoing drilling programme. The multiplier effect of London 
Mining’s economic activity in Sierra Leone will be a significant 
driver of the country’s economic expansion. Nowhere have I 
seen such potential for our activities to improve so quickly and 
so profoundly the lives of so many. Restarting the Marampa 
mine after a dormancy of 35 years is truly a privilege and a 
vastly rewarding and important endeavour. 
The Wadi Sawawin project in Saudi Arabia will produce DR 
quality pellets in the midst of the growing Middle Eastern DRI 
steel production market with substantial location and cost 
advantages over Brazilian or Northern European supply. The 
Bankable Feasibility Study completed in December 2009 
confirmed the project’s technical and financial viability and we 
look forward to progressing funding discussions during 2010.
Greenland has also been moved on with the completion of a 
prefeasibily study in February 2010 confirming the technical 
viability and optimal concept. A premium quality concentrate, 
which is ideal for blending with lower quality ores by 
steelmakers or suitable for DRI steelmaking using the HYL 
process, can be produced at the rate of 10Mtpa from the large 
951Mt resource base at a low operating cost.
The China Global Mining Resources (“CGMR”) JV, was 
acquired as an opportunity to develop an under-optimised yet 
profitable iron ore mine with strong expansion potential in a 
region of steel production. CGMR provides London Mining 
with an opportunity to establish a China focussed mining 
company using international best practices to take advantage of 
and optimise domestic mining opportunities. 
China produces more steel than the five next largest countries 
combined and as such is the main global market for iron ore and 
coking coal. It is our belief that China, along with the emerging 
economies of India, the Middle East, Brazil and other fast 
growing Asian countries will provide growing demand for steel- 
making materials in the near, medium and long term. London 
Mining aims to supply over 25Mtpa of iron ore to these markets 
by the end of 2015. We will also continue to progress our early 
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
Staged iron ore production growth
Targeted capacity (Mtpa at year end) 05
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
stage investments in Colombia, South Africa and Chile as  
well as looking at other opportunities in iron ore and 
metallurgical coal. 
Developing strong relationships and working with Chinese 
consumers and importers of iron ore may also lead to co-
development opportunities where London Mining’s ability to 
rapidly develop mines to production combines naturally with 
such companies’ ability to supply capital and offtake 
arrangements. This has direct relevance for London Mining’s 
higher capital projects, Wadi Sawawin and Isua. 
Our projects’ value and viability is based on competitive 
advantages such as simple logistics (all projects), locations  
close to customers and key growing markets (Saudi, China), 
producing premium product from large long term resource at 
low operating cost (Greenland) or being rapidly and cost 
effectively scaled to significant production (Sierra Leone).  
This in turn allows us to build lasting relationships with our  
key customers.
With proven assets, a technical team with broad expertise and  
a strong balance sheet with USD 205 million cash at the end of 
2009, London Mining will continue to execute its objectives and 
in doing so continue to build strong value for our shareholders.
Graeme Hossie
Chief Executive
Near term milestones to deliver production targets
2009
✓ 25 year mining licence for Marampa (Q3)
✓ Updated JORC resource for Isua (Q4)
✓ JORC resource for Wadi Sawawin (Q4)
✓ BFS for Wadi Sawawin (Q4)
2010
✓ JORC resource for Marampa tailings (Q1)
✓ Final government approvals for Marampa (Q1)
✓ Isua PFS (Q1)
• Updated Marampa JORC tailings resource (Q1)
• JORC resource for Marampa primary (Q1)
• Updated BFS for Wadi Sawawin (Q2)
• Revised PFS for Isua (Q2)
• China resource (Q3)
• Marampa expansion PFS (H2)
• Wadi Sawawin financing (H2)
2011
• Marampa 1.5Mtpa start-up (Q1)
• First shipment of Marampa concentrate (Q2)
• Start of Wadi Sawawin construction (H1) 06
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Scaleable
London Mining’s objective is to 
identify, develop and operate 
scaleable mines to become a 
mid-tier supplier to the global  
steel industry.
Our Strategy
We are focussing on developing our four core iron ore projects 
to supply our target markets of China and the Middle East with 
raw materials for steel making. We have a highly experienced 
technical team and have the funds to either develop our projects 
on their own or develop them to a point where they are able to 
attract financing and offtake. We also review further 
opportunities in iron ore and coal based on specific criteria. 
Our assets are scaleable. Our four 
core iron ore projects all have well 
defined ore bodies. Marampa 
benefits from having a tailings 
resource which can be brought into 
production quickly and a primary 
ore body from which production can 
be expanded. Wadi Sawawin and 
Isua have been the subjects of many 
years of exploration and are well 
understood. CGMR is located in a 
major iron ore producing area and 
has excellent resource potential. 
1. 2 b n
     Tonnes of iron ore resourcess 07
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Potential for rapid development Deliverable logistics
All our assets have logistics solutions 
which allow for production to be 
initiated and expanded in phases. 
Marampa, Wadi Sawawin and Isua 
are all located within 100km of a 
port site suitable for loading of ocean 
going vessels. Our China joint 
venture, located in the middle of a 
major steel producing province, sells 
iron ore concentrate at the mine gate.
London Mining has a proven track 
record of rapidly developing mines. 
We have a team and a plan for  
each project and expect to reach  
our targeted production though 
sequential delivery of our stated 
development milestones. Each 
project already has a resource, 
deliverable logistics and a road map 
to first production.
25Mt
   Targeted production from  
iron ore operations
92km
  Average distance of Marampa,  
Wadi Sawawin and Isua from  
the seaborne market 08
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Marampa, Sierra Leone is in construction 
Wadi Sawawin, Saudi Arabia is at final 
feasibility stage Isua, Greenland is at 
prefeasibility stage CGMR, China is 
optimising an existing mine.
Company Assets  
at a Glance
Other investments
The Company also has a number of investments in other iron 
ore and coal development opportunities:
20% interest in ICC, a Colombian coal exploration and  >
development company
27.5% interest in Delta Mining Consolidated Limited,   >
a South African coal developer
USD 5 million loan to assist funding the exploration of   >
a Chilean iron ore project
Sierra Leone
Project  Marampa
Ownership (%)  100
First production (year)  2011
Target production (Mtpa)  5–8
Construction of the 1.5–3Mtpa (Phase 1) 
Marampa tailings reprocessing operation 
is under way and the Company expects 
to complete a pre-feasibility study on an 
expansion to 5–8Mt from the (Phase 2) 
primary ore body by the end of the year. 
As part of this process the Company is 
working to delineate further resources. 
 Ownership Measured Indicated Inferred Total
Asset % Mt % Fe Mt % Fe Mt % Fe Mt % Fe
Marampa (tailings) 100 – – 30 23 3 22 33 23
Wadi Sawawin 50 – – 157 41 73 40 230 41
Isua  100 – – 114 37 837 36 951 36
Total    301 38 913 36 1,214 37 09
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Sierra Leone
Greenland
Saudi Arabia
China
Greenland
Project Isua
Ownership (%)  100
First production (year)  2015
Target production (Mtpa)  5–10
Saudi Arabia
Project  Wadi Sawawin
Ownership (%)  50
First production (year) 2013
Target production (Mtpa) 5–10
China
Project  China Global Mining Resources
Ownership (%)  50
First production (year)  2009
Target production (Mtpa)  1–2
The Wadi Sawawin iron ore deposits are 
located in the Northern Hijaz region of the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia approximately 
125km from Tabuk and 60km from the 
Red Sea port of Duba. London Mining has 
formed a joint venture in order to develop a 
mining and processing operation to supply 
steel production in the Middle East and 
North Africa Region with Direct Reduced 
“DR” pellets.
The Isua project is located approximately 
140km northeast of Nuuk, the capital 
city of Greenland, and about 155km 
south of the Arctic Circle. A revised 
pre-feasibility study for a 10Mtpa 
operation is expected to be completed  
in H2 of 2009. The Isua deposit can 
produce a high grade magnetite 
concentrate suitable for both blast 
furnaces and HYL-type Direct Reduced 
Iron plants.
In April 2009, London Mining formed a 
50/50 joint venture company, China 
Global Mining Resources (“CGMR”), 
with Wits Basin Precious Metals to 
acquire and operate the Xiaonanshan 
(“XNS”) mine and Sudan processing 
plant in the Anhui and Jiangsu Provinces 
of the People’s Republic of China. Work 
is ongoing to fully define the resource to 
JORC standards and optimise production 
from the existing plant.  10
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
BRIC
58.3%
EU27
11.4%
USA
4.8%
Japan
7.2%
Ukraine
2.4%
South Korea
4.0%
ROW
11.9%
China
46.6%
Russia
4.9%
India
4.6%
Brazil
2.2%
London Mining will be able to 
produce a range of products to 
supply the growing demand from 
the global steel industry. 
Our Markets
The steel market
The use of steel is concentrated in sectors that typically form a 
large part of an economy’s overall GDP (ie construction, 
transportation, manufacturing and engineering) with 
industrialising economies tending to pass through a phase of 
growth with high steel per capita consumption. As China, India 
and MENA are currently passing through this industrialisation 
phase, and given their large populations, they are driving 
significant growth in steel demand. 
The global recession in 2009 had a major impact on the steel 
sector in nearly all the major steel producing regions, with 
Europe, North America and the CIS hit particularly hard. In 
spite of this, according to the World Steel Association, four of 
the major steel producing countries posted increases in crude 
steel manufacturing in 2009: they were Iran, Saudi Arabia, 
China and India. 
In 2009 China was producing and consuming almost 50% of 
world steel: 1.2 billion tonnes of steel were produced and the 
World Steel Association expects these levels to double by 2050 
to meet the demands around the world. As the developing world 
becomes more industrialised and urbanised, the demand for 
steel products increases.
2009 Steel consumption by region
Source: World Steel Association 11
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
IRON ORE
Lump
DR pellet feed
Wadi Sawawin/Isua
DR lump
Fines
Marampa China
BF pellet feed
Marampa/Isua
Pellet plant Sinter plant Pellet plant
DR pellets Sintered ore BF pellets
Blast furnace
Direct Reduced Iron 
(“DRI”) plant
Basic oxygen furnace DRI
Electric arc furnace
Iron ore processing routes
easily sold on the seaborne market and the Wadi Sawawin 
Project and CGMR joint venture are ideally located to access the 
key domestic markets of the Middle East and China. 
China
China is the biggest importer of iron ore products 
predominantly for blast furnaces. London Mining will service 
this market though its operations in Sierra Leone, Greenland 
and domestically through our joint venture operation in China. 
Middle East and North Africa (“MENA”)
The availability of natural gas and absence of any local sources 
of coking coal means that the iron ore market in the MENA 
region is almost exclusively for products that can be used in 
Direct Reduced Iron (“DRI”) plants i.e. premium quality, high 
grade, low impurity pellets. London Mining, through its Saudi 
London JV, has demonstrated it is able to produce a high quality 
DR pellet from its Wadi Sawawin operation. Isua can produce a 
pellet feed product suitable for HYL-type DRI plants. 
Europe
The European market consists almost entirely of blast furnaces 
with Brazil currently the biggest supplier of lump, sinter and 
blast furnace pellet feed.  Marampa and Isua are ideally placed 
to enter this market. 
Iron ore supply and demand
As iron ore is an essential ingredient to make steel, the demand 
for iron ore is directly proportional to the demand for steel. 
During the period 2003 to 2008, global iron ore demand rose at 
a rate of 11.4% each year, mostly due to the strong demand from 
China. Annual iron ore demand is expected to continue its 
strong growth over the next 10 years, with CRU Strategies 
projecting an increase of 778Mt between 2009 and 2019 to a 
total of 2,580Mt (Source: CRU Iron Ore Market Service 
December 2009). 
Importantly a significant driver for the global iron ore market is 
the demand from the seaborne market. Between 2009 and 2013, 
we expect global seaborne imports to rise by 307Mt, to 
1,206Mt. By 2019 CRU Strategies expects this is rise by an 
additional 215Mt, bringing total seaborne imports to 1,421Mt 
of seaborne capacity compared with 2008 according to CRU 
Strategies, with this rising to 480Mt by 2019. (Source: CRU Iron 
Ore Market Service December 2009).
Our markets
London Mining is able to produce a number of products to 
supply its target markets. The Marampa and Isua projects are 
both capable of producing high quality products that can be  12
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Our People
Our technical team, headed 
by COO Luciano Ramos, is 
experienced in all aspects of 
development and operations in 
the fields of resource optimisation, 
mine planning and mineral 
processing. 
The technical services team led by Luciano Ramos has been 
significantly strengthened over the year with the appointment of 
Philip Stirling (General Manager for Mineral Processing, 
Engineering & Mining Operations), Sergio Guedes (General 
Manager for Mineral Resources) and Rinaldo Nardi (Senior 
Specialist in Mineral Processing and Plant Design). All three 
each have over 25 years industry experience with particular 
expertise in developing and operating iron ore mines. 
As well as augmentation of the technical and project teams 
throughout the year, we are extremely pleased to announce the 
appointment of Felix Kayat as deputy Chief Operating Officer, 
who will support Luciano Ramos in overseeing the development 
of our four key iron ore projects. Felix brings significant 
experience in coal, in particular from operations in South 
America, which will be instrumental in the development of our 
coal assets.
Luciano Ramos
COO of Iron Ore Division
Luciano is a Mining Engineer and has worked for over  
26 years in the Brazilian mining industry including 15 years  
at CVRD/Vale between 1992 and 2007. He has also worked  
on international projects in Australia and Chile. Luciano  
has particular expertise in the following: management and 
coordination of process engineering at iron, gold, bauxite, 
kaolin and manganese plants; project implementation for both 
greenfield and brownfield operations; project coordination for 
the manufacturing of mineral processing equipment; 
management of processing operations; and technological 
research and development. Luciano led the accelerated 
development of London Mining’s Brazillian iron ore mine, 
which was sold in 2008 generating a 1200% return for 
shareholders.
Felix Kayat
Deputy COO
Felix Kayat joined London Mining in February 2009.  
A Chemical Engineer by training, Felix has over 34 years’ 
experience in industrial production management, project 
supervision and construction management, new business 
development and completion of economic feasibility studies. 
Before joining London Mining he was employed by MPX 
Energia in Colombia developing resources and logistics 
solutions to supply coal from Colombia to Brazil and Chile. 
Felix spent the formative years of his career with Vale working 
on iron ore, coal and steel projects in Brazil, China, Colombia 
and Mozambique.
Sergio Guedes
General Manager for Mineral Resources
Sergio Guedes joined London Mining in May 2009. Sergio  
is a geologist with over 25 years’ iron ore experience in Brazil, 
Australia, Saudi Arabia and West Africa with Vale and Rio 
Tinto. He has particular expertise in the coordination of 
geology programmes for resource expansion and mine planning. 
Sergio holds an MBA from the Dom Cabral Foundation.
Rinaldo Nardi
General Manager for Mineral Processing and Plant Design
Rinaldo Nardi is a mining engineer and a Phd in mineral 
processing. He has over 35 years’ experience mostly with Vale 
and Companhia de Projetos Industriais in Brazil. He has 
particular expertise in management of conceptual engineering, 
basic engineering, feasibility studies, mineral process 
development, plant start up and optimisation. 13
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
CEO
COO  
Luciano Ramos
Ex Vale  
Mining Engineer 
>26 years
 Corporate  
Development
FD
Deputy COO 
Felix Kayat
Ex Vale & MPX  
Chemical Engineer 
>34 years
Technical Services Group Managers
Mineral Resources and Development
Sergio Guedes
Ex Vale & Rio Tinto  
Geologist  
>25 years
Sierra Leone
David Keili
Ex Sierra Rutile 
Civil Engineer 
>28 years
Mineral Processing and Plant Design
Rinaldo Nardi
Ex Vale Ph.D.  
Mineral Engineer  
>35 years
Saudi Arabia
David Owen
Ex Thyssen Krupp  
Civil Engineer 
>35 years
Mining and Plant Operations
Phillip Stirling
Ex WMC, Samarco & BHP  
Metallurgical engineer  
>30 years
Greenland
Xiaogang Hu
Ex Diavik 
Cold weather specialist Engineer  
>28 years
China
CGMR Management Committee
Philip Sterling  Sergio Guedes
Project Directors
Phillip Stirling
General Manager for Mineral Processing, Engineering & 
Mining Operations
Phillip Stirling joined London Mining in May 2009 from BHP 
Billiton where he occupied senior management positions at the 
Mount Keith, Kalgoorlie and Ravensthorpe nickel operations. 
Phillip is a metallurgical engineer with over 30 years’ experience 
mostly in iron ore. He spent the formative years of his career in 
Brazil working as a senior member of production teams on 
concentrator and pellitising plants as well as railway and port 
operations. Phillip emigrated to Australia in 1998 where he 
worked for two years as manager of the pellet plant and port 
operations at Australian Bulk Minerals’ Savage River Mine.
David Keili
Project Director for Marampa, Sierra Leone 
David joined London Mining in early 2009. He is a registered 
professional engineer and Sierra Leone national, with extensive 
western training in the US including an MBA and has 28 years’ 
experience in civil engineering and mining. David was 
previously at Sierra Rutile.
David Owen
Project Director for Wadi Sawawin, Saudi Arabia
David Owen is a civil engineer with over 35 years of experience 
in oil & gas, power and civil engineering most notably with 
Lurgi GmbH, Uhde GmbH (part of Thyssen Krupp Group), 
Technip (Mannesmann Demag Energie und Umwelttechnik) in 
the Middle East. David’s particular expertise is in contract and 
procurement management. 
Xiaogang Hu
Project Director for Isua, Greenland
An engineer specialising in cold regions with 28 years’ 
experience, Dr Xiaogang Hu has been involved extensively in 
design and construction phases on mining projects in the 
Canadian Arctic Region. Of particular note is his work on the 
Voiseys Bay nickel and Diavik diamond projects.  14
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
PORT PEPEL
PORT LOKO
MARAMPA MINE
LUNGI
FREETOWN
BARGE TO 
SHIP-LOADING
FACILITY
BARGE LOADER
EXISTING TARMAC ROAD
ROAD
RAILROAD
LONDON MINING 
BARGE 60 KM
ROAD 40 KM
BARGE ROUTE
LATERITE ROAD 
SCALE
10km
10mi
MAJOR CITY OR TOWN
Operations: Sierra Leone
100% owned >
1.5Mtpa of 66% sinter feed from  >
reprocessing of tailings (Phase 1)
Targeted production of 5–8Mtpa   >
through development of primary ore 
body (Phase 2)
Low capital intensity to deliver   >
attractive economics
Environmental permits and fiscal  >
incentives now approved
Operations 
During 2009, having resolved the long standing dispute over the 
licence boundary at Marampa, London Mining was issued with 
a new 25 year mining lease incorporating the Masaboin Hill and 
Ghafal primary ore bodies as well as areas containing historical 
tailings. The Company also negotiated a package of fiscal 
incentives which were approved, along with environmental 
permits and the mine plan (together the “Mining Licence 
Agreement” or “MLA”) by the Government of Sierra Leone in 
December 2009. The MLA was ratified by the Sierra Leone 
Parliament in February 2010, receiving unanimous cross-party 
support, and gives London Mining a clear mandate to proceed 
with development of Marampa.
The construction of the initial 1.5Mtpa tailings operation has 
now begun, a project manager engaged and the haul road is 
more than 80% complete. Start-up is scheduled for Q1 2011 
with first shipment of iron ore concentrate expected in Q2 2011. 
In January 2010, London Mining reported that it had confirmed 
to JORC standard sufficient tailings resources to commence 
development of the 1.5Mtpa operation and had appointed 
Ausenco to oversee project management. The tailings operation 
will produce 1.5Mtpa of iron ore concentrate with a grade of 
66% Fe and suitable for use as sinter feed. 
The logistics are straight forward, concentrate is trucked 40km 
to a barge loading jetty at Tawfayim, from where it is barged 
60km to a deepwater, floating crane for loading onto panamax 
or capesize ships. The Company is entering final discussions 
with Louis Dreyfus Armateurs S.A.S (“Louis Dreyfus”), an 
international logistics provider, to provide the barging and 
transhipment solution for up to 5Mtpa of concentrate. Louis 
Dreyfus has confirmed the scalability of this solution to up to 
10Mtpa or more, by adding the additional barges and a second 
floating crane. 
The 18.7km gravel haul road from mine to the barge loading 
jetty at Tawfayim is over 80% complete, with all the major 
structures in place ahead of the wet season which begins in 
April. The major long lead item for the plant, namely the Wet 
High Intensity Magnetic Separation (“WHIMS”) plant, is 
expected to be ordered in April 2010.
The next phase of development at Marampa will be to produce 
concentrate from the open pit mining of the primary ore body. 
Ausenco was appointed in January 2010 to complete a technical 
study, the results of which will contribute to a prefeasibility 
study (“PFS”). The PFS will look to confirm expansion potential 
for a 5–8Mtpa operation, and it is expected to be completed in 
H2 2010. An extensive resource definition programme is 
ongoing and will form the basis of the expansion plans.  15
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Geology and resource estimation
The Company embarked on a comprehensive resource 
definition programme in 2009 with the aim of confirming that 
there were sufficient resources in place to commence with a 
tailings reprocessing operation and to define the size of the 
main primary ore body. 3,944m of drilling was completed on 
the tailings in 2009 and all additional drilling is now complete. 
Work in 2010 will focus on completing the delineation of the 
main primary Ghafal and Masaboin Hill ore bodies, confirming 
the resource potential of additional satellite deposits on the 
licence and upgrading further resources to the measured and 
indicated categories. 4,074m of diamond drilling was completed 
on the primary ore bodies in 2009 with 18,000m planned for 
2010. 3,447m of this programme has now been completed. 
 
London Mining plans to report an updated tailings resource 
and preliminary estimate for the primary ore at the end of Q1 
2010. An updated resource statement and mine plan for the 
primary ore is expected in Q3 2010 with an estimate of further 
satellite deposit potential by the end of 2010. 
Appointments
In March 2009, a new Managing Director of the London Mining 
Company, Sierra Leone was appointed. Over 2009 the 
Company made the following appointments to support the 
development of Marampa including a Human Resource 
Manager, a Community Relations Officer, a Procurement 
Officer and a Project Engineer.
Marampa JORC resource (January 31 2010)
Marampa (Tailings) – 100% ownership
 Mt % Fe
Measured – –
Indicated 30 23
Inferred 3 22
Total 33 23
Drilling Masaboin Hill >
Building the haul road > 16
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Operations: Saudi Arabia
50% JV with National Mining Company >
5–10Mtpa (on 100% basis) of   >
DR pellets in key areas of iron ore 
demand growth
Strategic location with low energy cost  >
and deep water access
Low entry cost for a large mineral deposit  >
with high potential exploration areas
Following BFS, in discussions with  >
funding/offtake partner
Operations
The Wadi Sawawin project advanced significantly in 2009 with 
a bankable feasibility study completed and submitted to our 
Saudi partners, National Mining Company (“NMC”), and the 
Saudi government in December 2009. Work continues to 
expand the resource and extend mine life and further optimise 
capital expenditure. 
The results of an engineering cost study were reported in 
February 2009 and confirmed to London Mining and its partner 
the viability of the Wadi Sawawin Project. The London Mining 
project team identified engineering alternatives that presented 
opportunities for capex saving for investigation during the next 
phase, a bankable feasibility study with a project valuation 
accuracy of +/– 15%, which was undertaken by Worley Parsons 
Mining & Minerals Division in Perth. The engineering 
alternatives included relocation of the process plant from the 
mine to the coast area and consideration of a deep water port 
rather than a transhipment facility. Relocation of the plant 
eliminated 60km of pipelines for water and slurry as well as 
negating the need to pump water uphill from the desalination 
plant to the mine. 
The BFS was completed on 15 December 2009 on the basis of a 
production capacity of 5Mtpa DRI Pellet for a 14 year mine life. 
On 16 December 2009 London Mining and NMC presented to 
the Deputy Ministry for Mineral Resources in Jeddah. The BFS 
assumes capex of USD 1.6 billion and opex of USD 58/t pellets 
(assuming power and water are purchased from a third party) or 
capex of USD 2.0 billion and operating costs of USD 47/t if a 
power and desalination plant is included in the project.
During Q2 2010, London Mining will complete further drilling 
and resource verification with the expectation that the BFS will 
be revised to support an increase to a 20 year mine life at 5Mtpa 
capacity. The current schedule assumes a final feasibility study 
to be in place in early Q2 2010 and financing secured by the end 
of 2010. This would allow for construction to commence in H1 
2011 with an expected start-up in H2 2013. 
London Mining and NMC are currently in detailed discussions 
with a third party regarding forming a joint venture 
arrangement, which will build, fund and operate the Wadi 
Sawawin project in exchange for offtake and an equity interest.
Geology and resource estimation
A JORC resource of 230Mt (resources stated on 100% basis) 
grading 41% Fe at a cut-off of 30% was reported in December 
2009. 157Mt grading 41% Fe was included in the indicated 
category and provides sufficient resources for a 14 year mine life. 
Drilling, sampling and testing continue to upgrade additional 
resources to a category sufficient to be included in mine planning 
and to pin point any variability in the ore bodies which may  17
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
require adjustment to the process. 55 holes comprising 4,458m 
were drilled in 2009 with a further 80 holes comprising 8,000m 
planned for 2010 of which 3,000m will target areas outside the 
current exploitation licence in the neighbouring exploration 
licences. All the current resources are currently contained within 
this exploitation licence of 3.5km
2
. A further 211.2km
2
 are held 
under exploration licences which will be explored in the next 
phase of drilling with the aim of identifying sufficient resources 
to increase production to 10Mtpa.
Appointments
The project team was strengthened by the appointment of a 
Contracts Manager, a Procurement & Project Controls Manager 
and an Engineering Manager & Deputy Project Director. These 
appointments are important for the timely delivery of the BFS 
with an improved configuration and will ensure a smooth 
transition into the construction phase of the Wadi Sawawin 
Project. All three appointments have extensive experience on 
similar scale projects in the Middle East. 
Wadi Sawawin – 50% ownership
 Mt % Fe
Measured – –
Indicated 157 41
Inferred 73 40
Total 230 41
Drilling at Wadi Sawawin >
Potential deep-water port site > 18
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
SCALE
500km
200mi
GREENLAND
CANADA
ICELAND
KANGERLUSSUAQ
ISUA PROJECT
NUUK
LONDON MINING
NORTH ATLANTIC  OCEAN
( OPEN WATER ) ( OPEN WATER )
ICE AFFECTED
WATER
ICE AFFECTED
WATER
ARCTIC CIRCLE
Operations: Greenland
100% owned >
951Mt JORC resource with upside  >
Potential to produce 10Mtpa of premium  >
pellet feed
Scaleable resource with deep water   >
port site
Operations 
The Isua iron ore project in Greenland advanced in 2009 with 
work culminating in the submission of a prefeasibility study in 
February 2010. 
In September 2009, a prefeasibility engineering study was 
started by SNC Lavalin International to investigate more 
economical alternative project concepts, to improve the 
accuracy of capex and opex estimates and to integrate new site 
information obtained during 2009 geotechnical investigations. 
This work was completed on schedule at the end of January 
2010 and it was determined that the project could be built for 
estimated capex of USD 1.74 billion (+/–25%), complete with all 
the supporting facilities necessary to produce 5Mtpa of 70.8% 
iron ore concentrate. It was shown that a 23 year life-of-mine 
project can be operated at an average annual cost of USD 37/t. 
A desk top scoping study has also been completed which shows 
that the economics of the Isua project are greatly improved if a 
10Mtpa operation is considered producing a high grade, low 
impurity, blast furnace pellet feed concentrate that can also feed 
HYL-type DRI plants. If the operation is increased from 
5Mtpa–10Mtpa, the operating cost could be reduced to USD 
27/t with estimated capex of USD 2.39 billion. London Mining 
plans to undertake a prefeasibility study on this enlarged 
operation and expects it to be completed during Q2 2010. 
Geology and resource estimation
3,859m of drilling was completed on the Isua ore body in 2009. 
In June 2009, a preliminary open pit resource estimate was 
completed by Snowden to JORC standards, declaring 507Mt of 
inferred resource grading 35% Fe, with a cut-off grade of 20%. 
In December 2009 an updated JORC-compliant resource 
statement was released, in recognition of additional drilling and 
metallurgical testing work done this year. The new resource 
statement determined that the Isua mineral deposit contains 
574Mt grading 37% Fe, consisting of 114Mt of indicated 
resource and 460Mt of inferred resource, with a cut-off grade of 
20%. This resource was further increased to 951Mt following 
the inclusion of a further 377Mt of inferred resources within an 
optimised pit shell using the same cut-off. 
24 drill holes are planned at Isua in 2010 for a total length of 
approximately 12,100m. The primary objective is to upgrade 
the inferred resource for a 20 year pit with 10Mtpa operation 
but some work will also be undertaken on areas outside the pit.  19
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Appointments
In 2009, London Mining appointed a number of key personnel 
at Isua including a cold region engineering specialist as Project 
Director and a Communications Manager.
Isua (open pit) – 100% ownership
 Mt % Fe
Measured – –
Indicated 114 37
Inferred 837 36
Total 951 36
Isua container camp > Drilling Isua ore body > 20
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
50% owned through the CGMR joint  >
venture
Profitable asset in area of high iron   >
ore consumption
Potential opportunity to expand to  >
1 +Mtpa within two years, through local 
consolidation and operating efficiencies
Domestic presence provides direct  >
exposure to Chinese steel market and 
strengthens opportunities for strategic 
alliances
Operations: China
Operations
London Mining acquired a 50% stake in China Global Mining 
Resources (“CGMR”) in April 2009. On that date, CGMR in 
turn acquired the producing Xiaonanshan iron ore open pit 
mine (“XNS”) and Sudan concentrate processing plant. CGMR 
holds a licence incorporating two further adjacent operating 
mines (Sanbanqaio and Guqaio) and is undertaking a 
programme of resource definition and mine planning to 
consolidate the three mines into a single operation. CGMR 
signed an MOU to acquire the neighbouring mines in August 
2009, completion of such acquisition is subject to raising 
external finance. 
In the year ending 2009, the CGMR JV mined, on a 100% basis, 
1,006,151 tonnes since acquisition of ore grading 28% Fe with a 
stripping ratio of 0.97 and produced 273,000 tonnes of 
magnetite concentrate at an average grade of 62% Fe. Average 
cash operating costs for 2009 were below USD 40/t of 
concentrate excluding management and operator fees. The 
operation achieved an average realised iron ore price for the year 
ended 31 December 2009 of USD 65/t with the average price in 
December USD 73/t, reflecting the upward pricing momentum 
for iron ore. Since year end, prices realised have increased to 
USD 87/t in February 2010.
Activities to optimise the existing pit continue and CGMR is 
working to consolidate the other operators on the licence. Since 
acquiring the Chinese operations, CGMR has undertaken a 
programme to define upside to the existing resource and has 
also identified opportunities to optimise processing to increase 
recoveries and concentrate grade. These works will form the 
basis of future expansion plans. CGMR is currently seeking to 
raise external finance to assist in the process of acquiring the 
two adjacent pits, SBQ and Guqiao, acquiring further deep 
mining rights and providing further payments to the vendor in 
accordance with the original acquisition agreement.
Resources and Exploration
SRK were engaged in September 2009 to provide an estimate of 
the resource potential of the enlarged XNS licence. Initial 
calculations were based on historical work undertaken in the 
1970s including 55 vertical diamond drill holes totalling 
c.25,000m of drill core. 5,000m of further twin hole drilling has 
now been completed and SRK expect an estimate of the resource 
to be reported to an international standard by Q3 2010.
Appointments
On 11 August 2009, CGMR entered into a revised agreement 
with Green Earth Mining Resources Ltd to operate the mine and 
plant. In addition CGMR established a four member management 
committee, with two representatives from London Mining and 
two from the JV partners, Wits Basin. The management 
committee has the responsibility to liaise with, monitor and 
advise the CGMR board on the activities of the operator. 21
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
We are developing a pipeline of other 
investments focussed on iron ore and 
metallurgical coal. We target assets with 
our common investment criteria of 
scaleability, deliverable logistics and 
potential for rapid development.
Operations: Other assets
International Coal Company, Colombia (20% owned)
London Mining is currently in detailed discussions with ICC 
regarding the funding of the proposed construction of coke 
ovens. ICC has also been undertaking a series of desktop 
studies on the coking coal concessions that it currently holds in 
the Socha region where the coke ovens are to be located. 
In December 2009, Jairo Caicedo was contracted to be the acting 
CEO of ICC. Jairo is highly experienced in coal operations in 
Colombia having worked in the Colombian coal industry for 
most of his career, including for Cerrejon and Milpa.
Delta Mining Consolidated, South Africa (27.5% owned)
On 8 August 2008, London Mining, through its wholly-owned 
subsidiary Rannerdale, announced that it had agreed to take an 
initial 39.3% interest for USD 16.5 million in DMC Coal, a 
company in which parent company Delta Mining Consolidated 
Limited (“DMC”) has a 30.35% interest. Rannerdale made a 
USD 18.5 million loan to DMC Energy, a subsidiary of DMC. 
DMC Energy is the holding company for all the DMC group’s 
coal and iron ore assets and prospects in Africa, which include: 
Rietkuil coal project, Springbok Flats coal project, Limpopo 
coal project and various coal prospecting and exploration rights 
in Botswana and Swaziland. 
On 13 January 2010, Rannerdale converted the USD 18.5 million 
loan and its net USD 10.5 million investment (following the USD 
6.0 million impairment during H1 2009) in DMC Coal into 28% 
of the issued share capital of DMC, on a fully diluted basis.
DMC owns a number of thermal coal properties, the most 
advanced of which is its 70% owned Rietkuil project. The 
Rietkuil project is located in the Delmas district, 80km east of 
Johannesburg and adjacent to the Exxaro’s Leeupan Mine. High 
tension power lines are close to the property as well as the rail 
spur to the Delmas Colliery. A full feasibility study on the 
Rietkuil project commenced in February 2009 and is due to be 
released during the first half of 2010. Work for this feasibility 
study has included the drilling of the resource to reach a 
SAMREC compliant measured and indicated resource. Initial 
results indicate that a resource of around 200M GTIS can be 
exploited by open pit methods. Whilst this resource has been 
prepared by DMC to comply with SAMREC guidelines, it has 
not yet been confirmed by a third party competent person and is 
not yet reportable to an internationally recognised standard.
DMC Coal also holds the exclusive prospecting rights to the 
Limpopo project which is situated in the Limpopo/Thuli coal 
field adjacent to Coal of Africa’s Thuli project in South Africa. 
DMC has a number of other assets, including an earn in right to 
a 51% holding in the Springbok Flats Energy project which 
consists of five prospecting rights situated in the southern 
portion of the Springbok Flats Coalfield. 22
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Financial Review
1. Income statement 
The principal key performance indicator by which the Company 
measures the performance of its projects going forward is earnings 
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA
1
). 
Group EBITDA for the year ended 31 December 2009 was USD 
25.8 million (equivalent year ended 2008: 36.4 million). 
2009 includes the proportionally consolidated results from the 
Chinese joint venture with effect from 23 April 2009; the prior 
year included no operating results from continuing operations. 
Group EBITDA for the year ended 31 December 2009 represents 
loss from operations of USD 28.6 million, (2008: USD 36.8 
million) excluding depreciation included in cost of sales of USD 
2.0 million, (2008: nil) and depreciation included in 
administrative expenses of USD 0.8 million, (2008: 0.4 million). 
Included in loss from operations is:
USD 2.5 million (2008: nil) gross profit in respect of 50% of  >
the profits of Chinese operations held by CGMR BVI;
USD 2.3 million (2008: nil) net management fee receivable  >
by the Group from CGMR BVI after eliminating the Group’s 
50% share of the cost on consolidation;
USD 33.4 million (2008: USD 36.8 million) of administration  >
costs including: 
– staff related costs of USD 18.6 million (2008: 29.6 
million) comprising: 
i) USD 4.2 million (2008: USD 16.1 million) charge 
arising from the return bonus plan
2
; this charge reflects 
the non-cash IFRS 2 charge: cash payments for the 
return bonus plan during the year were USD 2.0 
million (2008 USD 13.3 million) and a further USD 7.4 
million is due (subject to the return bonus plan rules), 
payable over the next three years, of which USD 1.4 
million will be covered by proceeds from the exercise 
of respective options.
ii) USD 4.8 million (2008: USD 2.4 million) staff costs for 
Directors and key management;
iii) USD 4.3 million of other staff costs (2008: USD 1.7 
million). This increase is attributable to increased staff 
numbers in the Group’s iron ore technical team and the 
London head office; and increased costs in 2009 
resulting from bonus payments on completion of 
development milestones and the AIM listing. In the 
year ended December 2008, staff primarily received 
bonuses on the sale of the Brazilian operations, which 
were classified within discontinued operations. There 
were no other significant bonuses paid in 2008.
iv) A non-cash charge of USD 5.3 million (2008: USD 9.4 
million) of share based payments to staff, Directors 
and key management. This reduction is due to the 
majority of Director options vesting in July 2008.
– Other costs:
i) USD 4.7 million (2008: USD 1.8 million) of consultancy 
Strong balance sheet to fund development
Cash of USD 205 million and no debt >
USD 29.3 million project spend in 2009 >
USD 44.5 million CGMR acquisition >
First operating results from Chinese JV
136.5kt of concentrate at USD 65/t >
EBITDA contribution USD 6.0 million >
Average production cost <USD 40/t >
Group EBITDA loss of USD 25.8 million
Improved USD 10.6 million from 2008 >
Includes USD 2.5 million listing costs and  >
USD 5.3 million non cash share based 
remuneration charge
1 Excludes impairment of investment in associate and share of results of associates.
2 2009 compensation payments made under the Return Bonus Plan relate to the 
“Return of Cash” to shareholders in the second half of 2008. Full details of the 
compensation scheme are disclosed in the 2008 annual report. In summary, 
participants in the Company’s share-based remuneration schemes receive an 
equivalent compensation payment for the loss of value in awards held at the time of 
the Return of Cash. The compensation payment vests in accordance with 
underlying terms of the original award to which it relates. 23
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
and legal fees. Additional fees were incurred in 2009 as 
due diligence was performed on mergers and acquisition 
opportunities which were not pursued.
ii) USD 2.5 million (2008: nil) listing fees (including 
amounts paid to auditors) incurred on the Company’s 
listing on the AIM market of the London Stock 
Exchange in November 2009.
In addition to items classified within EBITDA, the Group 
recognised the following exceptional item in June 2009:
USD 6.0 million (2008: nil) impairment on the Group’s  >
investment in its associate, DMC Coal following DMC’s 
representation that it would no longer proceed with the 
Pixley Ka Seme coal prospect.
The Group no longer has material cash balances and/or borrowings 
in currencies other than USD, being the Group’s presentational 
currency. The net USD 48.1 million foreign exchange loss in 2008 
included the net USD 46.6 million loss arising in respect of the 200 
pence per Ordinary Share Return of Cash to shareholders, 
following the conversion of USD 400 million into GBP 224 million 
in September 2008 to eliminate future foreign exchange exposure 
on the GBP return of cash in November 2008. 
2. Balance sheet
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent has fallen 
from USD 367.6 million at 31 December 2008 to USD 327.2 
million at 31 December 2009. This was principally due to the 
loss for the year of USD 34.4 million and the net movement in 
the Employee Benefit Trust of USD 9.0 million, largely due to 
further acquisition of the Company’s shares from the market to 
meet its future obligations.
2.1 Acquisition of CGMR (BVI) 
The most significant change in the composition of the balance 
sheet arose from the Company entering into a 50:50 joint venture 
agreement with Wits Basin Precious Minerals, Inc. (Wits Basin). 
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company subscribed USD 
38.7 million for 100 A Shares in the joint venture entity China 
Global Mining Resources (BVI) Limited (“CGMR BVI”) and 
made a direct loan to Wits Basin of USD 5.75 million, making a 
total initial investment of USD 44.5 million. As part of the joint 
venture agreement, CGMR BVI passed the cash received from 
London Mining of USD 38.7 million to its wholly owned 
subsidiary China Global Mining Resources Limited (“CGMR”). 
CGMR then completed the acquisition of two Chinese 
companies: Xiaonanshan Mining Co Limited (“XNS”) and 
Nanjing Sudan Mining Co Limited (“Sudan”).
The Company has proportionately consolidated 50% of CGMR 
BVI from 23 April 2009. For accounting purposes the USD 38.7 
million investment in CGMR BVI is treated as debt due from 
the joint venture of USD 34.9 million (discounted for the 
timings of the anticipated cash inflows) and an equity 
contribution to the joint venture of USD 3.8 million (in 
exchange for the Group’s 50% interest). The Group’s 
consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2009 shows the 
following balances in respect of the Chinese joint venture: 
USD 5.75 million non-current “loan to joint venture partner”  >
representing the interest-bearing loan to Wits Basin 
(included in non-current loans and receivables note 18); 
USD 17.85 million net non-current “loan to joint venture”  >
representing the joint venture partner’s 50% share of the 
original USD 34.9 million debt due, as noted above, accreted 
for the period to 31 December 2009 for the timings of the 
anticipated cash inflows (included in non-current loans and 
receivables note 18); and 
USD 2.3 million net management fee receivable into the  >
Group from the joint venture (included in non-current loans 
and receivables note 18).
Further details of the accounting of this transaction are shown 
in note 24 to the financial statements.
2.2 Intangible assets
The Group continued to invest in exploration and evaluation 
activity, principally in Sierra Leone, Saudi Arabia and 
Greenland with these direct costs being capitalised as intangible 
assets. Intangible assets increased from USD 20.2 million at 31 
December 2008 to USD 49.3 million at 31 December 2009. At 
31 December 2009, Group intangible assets largely comprised 
USD 12.7 million for Sierra Leone, USD 15.7 million for Saudi 
Arabia and USD 19.4 million for Greenland.
2.3 Property, plant and equipment
The Group’s property, plant and equipment has increased to 
USD 48.3 million (2008: USD 1.1 million). USD 44.6 million is 
held in the Chinese operations, which includes a balance of 
USD 34.9 million resulting from the fair value attributed to the 
Group’s share of mineral reserves and resources acquired. The 
remainder of the balance includes USD 1.1 million of assets in 
Isua, Greenland, which consist largely of the container camp 
and USD 2.2 million in Marampa, Sierra Leone largely incurred 
on the construction of the haul road to the proposed port 
loading facility.
2.4 Investment in associates
London Mining’s investment in associates of USD 14.9 million at 
31 December 2009 (31 December 2008: USD 20.6 million) 
comprises equity investments of USD 5.0 million in International 
Coal Company Ltd (“ICC”) and USD 9.9 million in DMC Coal. 
This balance is stated net of an impairment charge of USD 6.0 
million, made in June 2009, relating to the Group’s investment 
in its associate, DMC Coal (see note 16). The Group’s total 
investment in the DMC Group at 31 December 2009, subsequent 
to the impairment, was USD 28.4 million comprising the equity 
investment referred to above (USD 9.9 million) and the 
convertible loan receivable (USD 18.5m). 24
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
2. Balance sheet (continued)
2.5 Non-current loans and receivables
The USD 51.0 million (2008: USD 18.5 million) non-current 
loans and receivables include the USD 18.5 million loan to the 
DMC Group, which along with the 39.3% investment in DMC 
Coal has been converted into equity of 28% of DMC 
Consolidated in January 2010, see note 32.
2.6 Trade and other payables
The USD 21.9 million trade and other payables balance (2008: 
USD 11.8 million) has increased from the prior year due to 
capital accruals relating from increased project activity 
associated with the Wadi Sawawin bankable feasibility study, 
completed in December 2009, and the Isua prefeasibility study, 
which was completed in February 2010. 
2.7 Deferred consideration payable
The USD 8.7 million deferred consideration is the Group’s 50% 
share of the residual acquisition cost payable to the vendor of 
the Chinese operations. It has been included within current 
liabilities on the balance sheet; however, the joint venture is in 
discussions with the vendor to defer payment in light of its plans 
to raise external finance prior to seeking a listing on the Hong 
Kong stock exchange. 
2.8 Other non-current liabilities
The USD 4.9 million of other non-current liabilities includes 
USD 2.2 million of the Group’s share of long term liabilities due 
to the joint venture partner from CGMR. 
2.9 Deferred tax liabilities
The USD 8.6 million deferred tax liability has all arisen on the 
acquisition of the Chinese operations in relation to the fair value 
attributable to the in situ mineral reserves and resources on 
acquisition.
3. Cash flow
Total cash decreased during the year by USD 110.8 million (net 
of foreign exchange) to USD 205.5 million. 
In summary the net decrease in cash during the period resulted 
from: 
USD 19.1 million net outflow from operating activities,  >
(2008: USD 18.0 million);
USD 80.1 million net outflow from investing activities,  >
(2008: USD 697.1 million inflow); and
USD 12.0 million net outflow from financing activities,  >
(2008: USD 381.0 million outflow). 
3.1 Operating cash outflow
The USD 19.1 million operating cash outflow has arisen from 
the USD 34.4 million loss for the year adjusted for non cash 
items, including:
Financial Review continued
 2009 2008 
Income statement  USDm  USDm
Revenue  8.9 –
EBITDA  (25.8) (36.4)
 China  6.0 –
 Sierra Leone  (4.7) (3.0)
 Saudi  (1.6) (–)
 Greenland  (0.7) (–)
 Unallocated costs including corporate  (24.8) (33.4)
Depreciation  (2.8) (0.4)
Net loss from operations (28.6) (36.8) 25
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
USD 5.3 million share based payment expense; >
USD 6.0 million impairment in associate made in June 2009;  >
and
USD 2.3 million increase in receivables from the net  >
management fee payable to the Group from the Chinese 
operations. Note that the movement in accruals for capital 
expenditure has been adjusted when calculating the cash 
outflows from investing activities below. 
3.2 Investing cash outflows
USD 38.7 million investment in CGMR BVI (see note 24); >
USD 5.75 million loan to Wits Basin (joint venture partner)  >
(see note 24);
USD 5.0 million convertible loan to Atacama Mining  >
Resources (BVI) in relation to Chilean iron ore exploration 
opportunities (see note 18); and
USD 29.3 million spent on intangible and tangible assets,  >
reflecting the Group’s ongoing development of its projects  
as follows:
USD 5.6 million Marampa, Sierra Leone; >
USD 9.3 million Wadi Sawawin, Saudi Arabia; >
USD 11.5 million Isua, Greenland; and >
USD 2.6 million onshore Chinese stay-in-business   >
capital expenditure.
3.3 Financing cash outflow
USD 11.1 million loan to the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust to 
acquire additional London Mining plc shares on market, to 
meet its obligations under the Company’s share-based 
remuneration scheme.
4. AIM listing
On the 6 November 2009, the Company listed on the AIM 
market of the London Stock Exchange (“AIM”). The listing on 
AIM was completed by placing 37,239,225 existing Ordinary 
Shares at GBP 1.924 (NOK 18) per Ordinary Share with over  
30 recognised institutions. The placing on behalf of existing 
shareholders did not therefore raise proceeds for the Company 
and was conducted by Liberum Capital Limited (nominated 
advisor and joint broker) and GMP Securities Europe LLP 
(joint broker). 
With its listing on AIM, the Company benefits from the 
presence of established mining sector research coverage in 
London and improved access to global investors. The listing on 
AIM has also allowed existing shareholders to trade more freely 
in the Company’s stock.
The Company has retained its listing on the Oslo Axess and this 
will be reviewed after an appropriate period of time.
5. Liquidity and going concern
At 31 December 2009, the Group had cash of USD 205.5 million 
and no material borrowings. Under the terms of the Substantial 
Shareholder Exemption (“SSE”), which granted the 2008 
disposal of the Group’s Brazilian operations tax free status, the 
Group is to reinvest a significant proportion of the proceeds into 
qualifying trading activities. 
Original clearance was sought and received from HMRC in July 
2008. Because of subsequent changes to the original planned 
investment programme, an updated clearance was obtained 
from HMRC on 17 September 2009 which reflects the Group’s 
current plans. The Group remains committed to delivering  
its approved strategy and believes the SSE clearance is  
still effective.
The Group’s projects in Sierra Leone, Saudi Arabia, Greenland 
and China will all require significant funding in the next year 
for their continued project development. The Group expects its 
Chinese joint venture (CGMR) and the Saudi joint venture to 
raise external finance to fund their development. Construction 
of the 1.5Mtpa tailings processing plant and related 
infrastructure for the Group’s Marampa project in Sierra Leone 
has commenced and carries an estimated total cost of USD 80 
million, including contingency, which is expected to be funded 
from existing cash reserves. The Group has minimal committed 
expenditure and retains the ability to defer certain forecast 
capital expenditures if required.
Resource estimation expenditure to JORC reporting standard 
for the projects in Sierra Leone, Saudi Arabia and Greenland 
will also be funded from existing cash reserves.
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of 
reasonably possible changes in trading performance and the 
timing of project commissioning, show that the Group has 
sufficient committed liquidity to fund its committed 
expenditure and will be able to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the Group 
continues to adopt the going concern basis.
6. Forward looking information
This financial report contains certain forward looking 
statements with respect to the financial condition, results, 
operations and business of the Group. These statements and 
forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to 
events that depend on circumstances in the future. There are a 
number of factors that could cause actual results or 
developments to differ from those expressed or implied by these 
forward looking statements. 26
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
The Group’s risk management policies and procedures are also 
discussed in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 36 
to 38. 
1. Mineral reserves and resources
There are a number of uncertainties inherent in estimating 
mineral reserves and mineral resources, including many factors 
beyond the Group’s control. Such estimation is a subjective 
process, and the accuracy of any reserve or resource estimate is 
a function of the quantity and quality of available data and of 
the assumptions made and judgments used in engineering and 
geological interpretation. 
There can be no assurance that mineral resources can be 
upgraded to proven or probable mining reserves and recovered. 
In the case of China, access to stated resources will require an 
extension of the mining license, (see below) and the acquisition 
of neighbouring mines as envisaged under the integrated mining 
license. Although CGMR expects to be able to secure these 
rights on commercially acceptable terms there is a risk they do 
not, in which case the Company’s carrying value in CGMR may 
not be supported in full.
2. Dependence on licences
The Group is dependent on the granting and renewal of mining 
and exploration licences in order to explore for and produce 
mineral resources from the assets of the Group and its joint 
venture companies. Failure to obtain a licence, revocation of an 
existing licence or failure to renew a licence could have a 
material adverse effect on the Group’s financial performance. 
In the case of China the current mining license permits mining 
to a depth of 28m below sea level. Access to additional resources 
below this depth will require an extension to the depth and 
duration of the existing five year license. It is expected this will 
be achieved for a commercially acceptable fee. It cannot be 
guaranteed that this license will be extended.
In accordance with the joint venture agreement between 
London Mining and NMC, the licences in respect of the Wadi 
Sawawin project will be transferred by NMC to the joint 
venture, SLI, on delivery by London Mining of a bankable 
feasibility study (“BFS”). London Mining delivered the BFS in 
December 2009 and is currently in discussion to effect the 
transfer. The transfer requires the approval of the Saudi 
Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources (“MPMR”), 
which is expected to be granted when a binding agreement is 
signed with a funding partner. As at the date of this report the 
transfer of the mining licences in respect of the Wadi Sawawin 
project have not been transferred to the joint venture company. 
If the licence transfer is delayed or not completed this could 
have a material adverse effect on the results of the Group.
Principal risks and uncertainties
London Mining is exposed to a 
variety or risks and uncertainties 
which can have a financial, 
operational or reputational impact 
on the Group and which may also 
impact the achievement of social, 
economic and environmental 
objectives. The principle risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group 
have been categorised into 
headline risk areas.  27
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
3. Commodity prices 
The market price of the Company’s shares, financial results, 
exploration, development and operating activities have 
previously been, and may in the future be, significantly 
adversely affected by declines in commodity prices.
4. Government regulations 
The exploration, development and operating activities of the 
Group are subject to various laws governing exploration, 
development, mining, processing, taxes, labour standards and 
occupational health and safety, toxic substances, transportation 
on land use, water use, land claims of local people and other 
matters. Although the Group believes that the activities are 
currently being carried out in accordance with all applicable 
laws, no assurance can be given that new rules and regulations 
will not be enacted or that existing rules and regulations will 
not be applied in a manner which could limit or curtail 
production or development. 
5. Environmental risk and hazards
Government approvals and permits are required in connection 
with the activities of the Group. To the extent approvals and 
permits are required and not obtained the Group may be 
curtailed or prohibited from proceeding with planned 
exploration, development or operation of mineral properties.
6. Foreign operations 
The Group currently has interests in exploration, development 
and operating projects in Saudi Arabia, Greenland, China, 
Sierra Leone, South Africa and Colombia and it is looking at 
opportunities to expand its activities to developing countries in 
the future. Therefore the activities of the Group are exposed to 
varying degrees of political and economic risk and other risks 
and uncertainties. 
7. Joint ventures
Joint ventures involve special risks. The risks may be associated 
with the possibility that the Group’s joint venture partners may 
(i) have economic or business interests or goals that are 
inconsistent with or opposed to those of the Group, (ii) exercise 
veto rights so as to block actions that the Group believes to be 
in its or the joint venture’s best interests, (iii) take action 
contrary to the Group’s policies or objectives with respect to its 
investments, or (iv) as a result of financial or other difficulties, 
be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obligations under the joint 
venture or other agreements. 
8. Insurance and uninsured risk 
Although the Group maintains insurance to protect against 
certain risks in such amounts as it considers reasonable and 
seeks to ensure that its joint venture companies in which it 
invests do likewise, such insurance will not cover all the 
potential risks associated with a mining Group’s operations and 
may not be adequate to cover any particular liability.
9. Dependence on key personnel
The success of the Group is dependent on its senior 
management. The experience of these individuals will be a 
factor contributing to the Group’s continued success and 
growth. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have 
a material adverse effect on the Group’s business prospects.
10. Liquidity and counterparty risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the joint venture 
companies in which it invests may not be able to meet their 
liabilities as they fall due and as a result, cease trading. The 
Group’s policy on overall liquidity is to ensure that there are 
committed funds in place which, when combined with available 
cash resources, are sufficient to meet the funding requirements 
for the foreseeable future. The Group expects its Chinese and 
Saudi Arabian joint ventures to raise external finance to fund 
development. If this finance is not raised, then the timing of 
these or other projects may have to be delayed, or the Group 
may need to raise additional financing or seek to recover its 
investment through other means. 
The Group is also exposed to counterparty risk from customers 
or holders of cash that could result in financial losses should 
those counterparties become unable to meet their obligations to 
the Group. The Group uses multiple banks to diversify its 
counterparty risk. 
11. Currency risk 
The Company’s functional currency is United States Dollars 
(“USD”). Iron ore sales and the sales of other minerals and 
metals are typically denominated in US dollars (“USD”) while 
the Group’s costs are incurred in several currencies. The Group 
may undertake hedging activities against these potential 
fluctuations. However, there are no assurances that hedging 
strategies, if implemented, would be successful.  28
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Corporate Social Responsibility
During the year under review the Company took steps to 
develop and implement policies which will allow it to manage 
relationships with its stakeholders, including employees, 
partners and communities effectively and sustainably.
In November 2009, London Mining appointed Wardell 
Armstrong International (“WAI”) to review the Company’s 
current position with regard to its corporate social responsibility 
initiatives and to help provide a framework for the development 
of health, safety, community and environmental policies. The 
resulting policies will be applied across the assets the Company 
operates, to ensure adherence to international best practice 
(including the Equator Principles). 
Corporate policy, gap analysis and action plan
The work WAI undertook was segmented in four parts: 
Policies
Development of Environment, Health, Safety and Community 
(“EHSC”) policies with reference to international best practice 
(namely the Equator Principles, the International Finance 
Corporation Performance Standards, the European Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development Performance Requirements 
and where relevant the World Bank environment health and 
safety guidelines). These policies are awaiting approval by the 
Board and will then be available on the Company’s website. 
Gap Analysis
A comparison of current EHSC management within the 
Company to international best practice (see above) and the 
identification of key areas requiring development. This was 
presented as a gap analysis, with comments on what would be 
required to achieve compliance. The gap analysis identified 
areas which will be addressed via appropriate EHSC 
management measures.
Risk Assessment
Identification of Company and site specific risks and the 
development of a prioritised action plan. Risk assessments  
were prepared to address corporate and site specific risks,  
based on WAI’s understanding of the Company’s projects and 
international requirements. Risks were generally considered 
with regard to delay to project completion, financing risk and 
licencing implications of non compliance.
Action Plan
Development of an EHSC Action Plan, the format for which  
has generally been acceptable to Equator Principle Finance 
Institutions, the EBRD and IFC in the past. The action  
plan identified steps required to achieve compliance, and a 
schedule for these tasks, and deals with corporate and project 
specific tasks.
London Mining is a responsible 
corporate entity, and is aware  
of the key roles it fulfils as an 
employer; as a partner in 
developing local communities; and 
of the impact its operations can 
have on the environment. As each 
project is developed, London 
Mining will have an increasing 
impact on these local communities 
and the environment. 29
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview of CSR activities in Sierra Leone
The Marampa concession in Sierra Leone, is currently the only 
project operated by London Mining which is at an advanced 
stage of development and as such it has been identified as a 
priority in terms of our CSR initiatives. 
London Mining recognises that the redevelopment of the 
Marampa mine is not only of significance to local communities 
surrounding the mine and port locations, but of national 
significance, as it will return the country to large scale iron  
ore production. 
In accordance with the Sierra Leone Mines and Minerals Act, 
2009, and as part of its commitment to local and national 
community development funds, London Mining is to contribute 
at least 1% of its onshore gross revenues to a Community 
Development Fund of which at least 50% will be for investment 
in local community projects and the residual shall be used in the 
Company’s CSR programmes within Sierra Leone as a whole.
The location of the town of Lunsar next to Marampa means 
there are potential risks associated with economic migration, 
expectations of provision of jobs and services, environmental 
impacts resulting from accelerated development of the project 
and fairly administering funds from the mining operation. 
London Mining will manage these risks through the 
establishment of a local CSR department which will oversee the 
administration of the Community Development Fund. The fund 
will be managed by a committee comprising representatives 
from London Mining, the local community, and the 
Government of Sierra Leone. London Mining may also, from 
time to time, align itself with international organisations and 
local NGOs to augment CSR project funding encouraging open 
discussion with all groups as mine development progresses.
Recent achievements at Marampa
Extensive work with communities and social infrastructure has 
already been undertaken in Sierra Leone. London Mining has 
been a supporter of several important initiatives in the local area 
over the last three years, focussing on building education, 
healthcare and infrastructure capacity and fostering improved 
relations between communities in the aftermath of civil war 
through the support of local sporting teams. 
Highlights from the past year are detailed below:
Construction of 14 modern hand pump water wells, which  >
were commissioned in Marampa Chiefdom for five villages 
located within the Company’s mine concession area and in 
Port Loko for villages along the newly constructed haul road 
and jetty site;
Support of construction work of the Wesleyan Church  >
Primary School in Lumley, Freetown; and
Support of community sporting projects including: funding  >
reformation of the Marampa Stars football team to enable the 
local community to be represented in national competitions; 
sponsoring the Sierra Leone National female team “Lone 
Star” to assist the team in participating in an international 
competition in Nigeria; providing Thofayim Football Club 
with full team kits; assisting the Port Loko District Football 
Team “Bai Bureh Warriors” to compete in the National 
Premier League; and funding qualifiers from the National 
Power Lifting Association to compete in an overseas 
competition. 30
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Board of Directors
1. Dr. Colin Knight (age 76)
Non-executive Chairman
Colin was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Company on 14 June 2005. He is a mining engineer and 
economic geologist and, since 1983, has consulted on mining 
finance and policy on projects worldwide for London stockbrokers 
and banks, and for the World Bank and Commonwealth 
Secretariat in developing countries in Africa. After military service 
in the Royal Engineers, Colin spent some 18 years in the Canadian 
mining industry, including exploration, operations, mining 
finance and ultimately consulting. He returned to the UK in 1974, 
working for the Rio Tinto group in London in European and 
overseas exploration, budget control, project appraisal and 
negotiations with joint venture partners and governments. He 
qualified in mining engineering at the Camborne School of Mines, 
and holds a degree in economic geology and a PhD from the 
University of Toronto. Professional associations include FIMM 
(now FIMMM), CEng., PEng (Canada).
2. Graeme Hossie (age 45)
Chief Executive 
Graeme co-founded London Mining in 2005 and has been 
instrumental in building the Group from inception. In his roles 
developing the Company as Finance Director, Corporate 
Development Officer and Deputy Managing Director and, since 
February 2009, as Chief Executive, he has driven fund raisings 
and share placings of over USD 295 million, asset and Company 
acquisitions and joint venture partnerships, the establishment of 
off-take and strategic relationships, the Company’s listings on 
Oslo Axess and the London AIM, growth of and subsequent 
disposal of the Group’s Brazilian operations and the overall 
development of the Group’s expanding iron and coal projects and 
international management team. Prior to founding the Company, 
Graeme ran a venture development consultancy assisting resource 
and high growth venture companies and has founded and 
developed new ventures as principal adviser and executive in 
several industries including natural resources, media and 
consumer products. Graeme was previously a management 
consultant with Bain and Company in London, and in venture 
capital and innovation consulting with Piper Trust. Graeme holds 
a business degree from Ivey at the University of Western Ontario.
3. Rachel Rhodes (age 39)
Finance Director
Rachel has over 10 years’ experience in the mining sector, of which 
the five years prior to joining London Mining in August 2008 were 
in key financial roles with Anglo American plc. At Anglo Rachel 
most recently served as Lead Corporate Finance Manager within 
Anglo American’s corporate finance department where she played 
a key role in the demerger of Mondi plc, Anglo’s paper and 
packaging business, which was dual listed on the London and 
Johannesburg stock exchanges. Rachel also led Anglo American’s 
conversion to International Financial Reporting Standards. Rachel 
is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales, having qualified with Coopers & Lybrand in London 
in 1996. She is a graduate of Cambridge University.
4. Sir Nicholas Bonsor (age 67)
Non-Executive Director 
Sir Nicholas was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2007 
as a Non-Executive Director. A practising barrister specialising 
in regulatory and commercial law, Sir Nicholas was a member of 
British Parliament from 1979 to 1997 where he specialised in 
foreign affairs and defence, and was chairman of the Defence 
Select Committee from 1992 to 1995 and Minister of State at 
the Foreign Office from 1995 to 1997. Sir Nicholas has served 
on the board of several companies, including Blue Note Mining 
Inc. (Canada) from 2006 to 2008, and has served as the 
chairman of Egerton International Ltd from 2004 to present. He 
is a Deputy Lieutenant of Buckinghamshire, a freeman of the 
City of London (1988), a member of the Chartered Institute of 
Arbitrators and a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. Sir 
Nicholas practised as a barrister from 1967 to 1975 and from 
2003 to the present day. Sir Nicholas holds a master of arts 
degree in jurisprudence from Oxford University.
5. Malcolm Groat (age 49)
Non-Executive Director
Malcolm was appointed to the Board on 4 September 2008 as a 
Non-Executive Director having previously held the position of 
part-time finance director from June 2007. Malcolm is a fellow of 
the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures 
and Commerce, a fellow of the Institute of Directors, and a fellow 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
In the mining sector, he serves as director at Nusantara Energy 
PLC and has served in the past on the boards of Platinum Mining 
Corporation of India PLC (admitted to AIM, 2005) and Tengri 
Coal PLC of Mongolia. Prior to working in the mining sector, 
Malcolm spent a decade in finance roles in large global 
engineering groups. Before that he qualified with PriceWaterhouse 
in London and worked internationally in corporate finance. 
Malcolm holds a Master of Arts degree in Modern History and 
International Politics from St. Andrews University and an MBA 
from Warwick University.
6. Dr. Hans Kristian Schønwandt (age 69)
Non-Executive Director 
Hans was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 4 January 
2006. He was the deputy minister, head of the Bureau of 
Minerals and Petroleum for the Greenland Government from 
1998 until he retired in October 2005. Between 1987 and 1998 
he was head of the department of economic geology at the 
Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland. Hans has a PhD 
in economic geology from the University of Copenhagen. 31
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
1
3
5
2
4
6 32
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Senior Management
1. Luciano Ramos (age 50)
COO of Iron Ore Division
Luciano is a Mining Engineer and has worked for over  
26 years in the Brazilian mining industry including 15 years  
at CVRD/Vale between 1992 and 2007. He has also worked  
on international projects in Australia and Chile. Luciano  
has particular expertise in the following: management and 
coordination of process engineering at iron, gold, bauxite, 
kaolin and manganese plants; project implementation for both 
greenfield and brownfield operations; project coordination for 
the manufacturing of mineral processing equipment; 
management of processing operations; and technological 
research and development. Luciano led the accelerated 
development of London Mining’s Brazillian iron ore mine, 
which was sold in 2008 generating a 1200% return for 
shareholders.
2. Benjamin Lee (age 38)
Head of Corporate Development
Benjamin is involved in all financial and strategic aspects of 
current and future projects. Prior to joining London Mining in 
early 2009, Benjamin was head of UK Mergers & Acquisitions at 
Kaupthing Bank from 2007 to 2008. Among a number of 
transactions completed there, he was the lead adviser to London 
Mining on the disposal of their Brazilian iron ore mine. Prior to 
joining Kaupthing, Benjamin worked for 13 years in Mergers & 
Acquisitions at UBS in London and New York, advising on a 
wide variety of transactions for large and mid-sized companies. 
Benjamin graduated from Cambridge University in 1993 with 
an MA in Economics.
3. Thomas Credland (age 32)
Head of Investor Relations
Thomas is a geologist and joined London Mining in April 2009. 
Prior to joining London Mining, he was an institutional equity 
salesman in the highly successful mining and metals team at 
Canaccord Adams that raised in excess of $1billion in new 
equity for a number of high profile iron ore and coal companies. 
Prior to this, Thomas was a mining analyst for Brook Hunt and 
Associates, working on their base metal and gold cost studies. 
Thomas has spent time working in exploration and development 
most notably at Xstrata’s Windimurra Vanadiam Project in 
Western Australia. He has a BSc (Hons) in Geology from the 
University of Edinburgh and an MSc in Mineral Project 
Appraisal from the Royal School of Mines at Imperial College.
4. Rohit Bhoothalingam (age 37)
Head of Legal, Company Secretary
Rohit Bhoothalingam joined London Mining in December 
2008. Prior to this he was Head of Legal at Navigator, a natural 
resource focussed hedge fund. His background is in project 
finance and corporate law with Wilmer Hale, New York and 
London; and Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, New York. Rohit 
studied law at Cambridge University and holds a Masters in 
Law from Georgetown University Law Centre. He qualified 
from the New York Bar in 1999. 33
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
1
3
2
4 34
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Directors’ Report
The Directors have pleasure in submitting the statutory financial 
statements for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Principal activities and business review
London Mining is developing mines to supply the global steel 
industry. The Group has iron ore exploration and development 
projects located in Sierra Leone, Saudi Arabia, Greenland and 
China and equity investments in certain coal projects in South Africa 
and Colombia.
More detailed information about the Group’s businesses, activities 
and financial performance is incorporated into this report by 
reference and can be found in the Chairman’s statement on page 2, 
the Chief Executive’s statement on page 3 and the Operating and 
Financial Review on pages 14 to 27.
Dividends
The Directors recommend that no final dividend be paid for the year. 
No interim dividend was paid during the year.
Share capital
The Company’s authorised and issued share capital as at 
31 December 2009, together with details of share allotments and 
purchases of own shares during the year, are set out in note 23 of the 
financial statements.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 26 of the 
financial statements.
Going concern
The financial position, cash flows and liquidity position of the Group 
are set out in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 27. 
The Directors have considered the Group’s cash flow forecasts and are 
satisfied that the Group’s forecasts and projections (taking account of 
the items noted in the Financial Review on page 25 show that the 
Group has sufficient committed liquidity to fund its committed 
expenditure and will be able to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors
Biographical details of the Directors currently serving on the Board 
and their dates of appointment are set out on page 30.
The Directors who served throughout the year are as follows:
Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors
Graeme Hossie  Dr Colin Knight 
Rachel Rhodes Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt DL
Chris Brown
1
 Malcolm Groat 
 Dr Hans Kristian Schønwandt
1 Resigned on 9 February 2009.
Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Br DL and Malcolm Groat retire by rotation at 
the forthcoming annual general meeting and being re-eligible offer 
themselves for re-election. 
Dr Colin Knight is chairman of the Nomination committee and 
Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt DL is chairman of the Remuneration and 
Audit committees.
Directors’ interests
The Directors who held office at 31 December 2009 had the 
following interests either directly through related parties or entities 
in which the Directors had a beneficial interest in the Ordinary 
Shares of the Company:
 31 December 2009
Name of Director  Number % owned
Graeme Hossie  3,750,000 3.42
Dr Colin Knight  400,000 0.37
Sir Nicholas Bonsor Bt DL  47,000 0.04
Dr Hans Kristian Schønwandt   150,000 0.14
Details of Director’s share options and benefits under the Long Term 
Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on page 39 to 42.
Directors’ indemnities
The Group has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for 
the benefit of its Directors which were made during the year and 
remain in force at the date of this report.
Charitable and political contributions
During the year the Group made charitable donations of USD 
265,000 to various community organisations and projects in Sierra 
Leone. This included USD 145,000 for the construction of 
community drinking water wells and USD 75,000 for the 
construction of a public road in Lunsar, Sierra Leone.
The Company sponsored the attendance of certain members of 
parliament of Sierra Leone at mining conferences during the year at 
a cost to the Group of USD 75,000.
Substantial shareholdings
Shareholdings in the Company at a date not more than one month 
prior to the date of notice of the AGM of 3% or more are as follows:
  Number % owned
Caspian Investments (BVI) Limited  20,063,353 18.3%
London Mining Employment Benefit Trust  6,710,943   6. 1% 
Fidelity Investments  6,527 ,930   5.9% 
Aegon Asset Management  6, 412,910  5.9% 
GIC Asset Management  5, 1 10, 150   4.7% 
Quilter  5,000,000   4.6% 
DnB NOR Bank ASA  4,308,399   3.9% 
Barclays Wealth
1
  3,725,559   3.4% 
Threadneedle Investments  3,723,749   3.4% 
Pabrai Investments  3, 421,200   3. 1% 
1 Graeme Hossie holds a beneficial interest. 35
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Supplier payment policy
The Group’s policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when 
agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are 
made aware of terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment.
Value of land
Land is carried in the financial statements at cost. It is not practical 
to estimate the market value of land and mineral rights since these 
depend on product prices over the next 20 years or more, which will 
vary with market conditions.
Post balance sheet events
Post balance sheet events are set out in note 32 of the financial 
statements.
Auditors
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this 
annual report confirms that:
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit •	
information of which the Group’s auditors are unaware; and
the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have •	
taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Group’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as 
auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors of the Company 
and signed on its behalf by:
Rohit Bhoothalingam
Company Secretary
19 March 2010 36
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Areas of non compliance in relation to Director’s remuneration are 
included in the Remuneration report on page 40 at section 4.
3. The Board of Directors
3.1 Membership
The Board consists of six Directors: two Executive Directors and 
four Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman. The names, 
skills, experience and expertise of each Director together with their 
terms in office are shown in the biographical details on page 20. 
3.2 Roles and responsibilities
The main responsibilities of the Board include but are not limited to:
providing strategic direction for the Company; •	
overseeing the Company’s systems of internal control, governance •	
and risk management;
evaluating the performance of executive management; and •	
monitoring and facilitating the operation of the audit, •	
nomination, and remuneration committees.
The Directors have agreed a formal schedule of matters specifically 
reserved for the Board which can be viewed in the corporate 
governance section of the Company’s website at www.londonmining.
co.uk. These decisions include but are not limited to the approval of 
the Company’s annual business plan and budget, major changes to 
the Company’s corporate structure, approval of the Company’s 
annual report and treasury policy and the approval of major capital 
expenditure. Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the 
Company rests with the executive team.
Directors receive timely, regular and appropriate management 
information to enable them to fulfil their duties and have access to 
the advice of the Company Secretary. The Board has agreed 
guidelines for Directors to obtain independent professional advice if 
they seek it at the Company’s expense.
3.3 Board independence
The Combined Code requires that small companies should have 
at least two Independent Non-Executive Directors. Three of the 
Company’s four Non-Executive Directors, (Dr. Colin Knight, 
Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt Dl and Dr. Hans Schønwandt) are not 
considered independent by definition of the Combined Code as they 
hold share options in the Company, which are deemed to affect their 
independence. In addition Malcolm Groat was also an Executive 
Director of the Company within the last five years. These share 
options which are not considered material in amount, were held 
prior to the Company listing on the AIM and Oslo Axess and 
therefore are not considered by the Company to affect their 
independence. No share options have been granted to Non-Executive 
Directors since both listings. The Company considers the 
appointment of the previous Executive Finance Director as a 
Non-Executive Director enhances the overall strength of the Board 
and outweighs any perceived compromise to his independence. Of 
the Board, Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt DL is considered independent.
3.4 Board performance
The Board completes a formal annual process to evaluate the 
effectiveness of Board committees and individual Directors. Each 
Non-Executive Director’s performance is appraised personally by the 
1. Governance of London Mining Plc
London Mining Plc (the “Company”) is committed to maintaining 
high standards of corporate governance. 
The Company has adopted a common approach to corporate 
governance to comply with regulatory obligations associated with its 
listing on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange (“AIM”) 
and the Oslo Axess of the Oslo Stock Exchange (“Oslo Axess”). 
Whilst not a mandatory requirement of the Company’s listing on 
AIM, the Directors have chosen to apply the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting 
Council in June 2008 (the “Combined Code”) to promote good 
corporate governance, where considered practical for a company of 
its size and development stage of the mining cycle. 
The Directors have also applied section 13.2.2(5) of the Continuing 
Obligations of Stock Exchange Listed Companies published by the 
Oslo Stock Exchange. In its application, the Company is exempt 
from applying the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate 
Governance published on 21 October 2009 (the “Norwegian Code”) 
on the basis that the Norwegian Code shares common corporate 
governance themes with the Combined Code. 
Adherence to the Combined Code is based on a “comply or explain” 
principle, whereby companies are expected to comply with the 
recommendations or explain why they have chosen an alternative 
approach. Below is a summary of the departures from the Combined 
Code with an explanation of how the Company’s actual practices 
contribute to good corporate governance.
2. Combined Code compliance
The Company is required to state how it has applied the principles 
set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and which relate to its 
Directors, remuneration, accountability and audit and relations 
with shareholders. This annual report provides statements to satisfy 
this obligation.
The Company has scoped out its material investment in its Chinese 
joint venture for the purpose of these Corporate Governance 
disclosures as permitted by the Turnbull Guidance on internal 
controls. The Company and its joint venture partner intends to 
implement enhanced financial reporting procedures as it prepares 
the joint venture for a potential listing on the Hong Kong 
stock exchange.
The Company is in compliance with the provisions of section 1 of 
the Combined Code as at 31 December 2009 except for:
Provision A.3.2. The Board does not include at least two •	
Independent Non-Executive Directors
1
.
Provision A.4.1, B.2.1, C.3.1. The Nomination, Remuneration •	
and Audit committees do not include at least two Independent 
Non-Executive Directors
1
.
1  The Nomination committee and the Board is currently considering the appointment 
of an additional Independent Non-Executive Director which would resolve 
non-compliance issues relating to the independence of Directors. See section 4.2 
Nomination Committee for further details.
Corporate Governance Statement 37
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
was made by taking into account the size and complexity of the 
Group’s operations and will be reviewed again by the audit 
committee in 2010.
The Audit committee monitors the relationship with the Company’s 
external auditors relating to the provision of non-audit services to 
ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded. This 
is achieved by disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit 
services (see note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements ) and 
the prohibition of selected services by the external auditor. The Audit 
committee has considered information pertaining to the balance 
between fees for audit and non-audit work for the Company in 2009 
and concluded that the nature and extent of non-audit fees do not 
present a threat to the external auditor’s objectivity or independence.
 
There is currently no formal arrangement for whistle-blowing, which 
the Directors consider appropriate given the Company’s relatively 
small size.
The appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Group’s external auditors 
(incumbents since the last tendering process in 2008) is kept under 
annual review by the Audit committee, which conducts a detailed 
assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit, and if 
satisfactory the committee will recommend the reappointment of the 
audit firm. 
The committee’s assessment of the external auditors’ performance 
and independence underpins its recommendation to the Board to 
propose to shareholders the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as 
auditors until the conclusion of the AGM in 2011. Resolutions to 
authorise the Board to reappoint and determine their remuneration 
will be proposed at the AGM on 30 April 2010.
4.2 Nomination committee
The Nomination committee is chaired Dr. Colin Knight and 
consists of Sir Nicholas Bonsor Bt DL, (Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director) Malcolm Groat and Dr. Hans Schønwandt 
as committee members.
Of the committee members, Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt DL is considered 
independent. The Combined Code recommends the composition of 
the Nomination committee to include a majority of Independent 
Non-Executive Directors. The Company departs from this 
recommendation but is satisfied that the current composition still 
contributes to good corporate governance for the reasons discussed 
in the section “Board independence”. 
The main role of the Nomination committee is to review regularly 
the structure, size and composition of the Board and to give 
consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior 
executives. It reviews the leadership needs of the Company, both 
executive and non-executive and consults with external search 
consultants as required to fill vacancies as they arise.
The nomination committee also reviews the time required to be 
committed to Company business by Non-Executive Directors and 
assesses whether they are devoting enough time to fulfil their duties.
Chairman and, in a meeting chaired by the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Directors assess the 
Chairman’s performance, taking into consideration the views of 
Executive Directors. 
3.5 Election and re-election of Board members
Directors are elected by shareholders at the first annual general 
meeting after their appointment and, after that, offer themselves for 
re-election by a vote of shareholders at least once every three years.
3.6 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate 
and the division of their responsibilities has been formally approved 
by the Board. 
The Combined Code recommends that the Chairman should be 
independent on appointment. The Chairman was independent on 
appointment but is no longer deemed independent. However the 
Board is satisfied that the current composition still contributes to 
good corporate governance for reasons discussed in the section 
“Board independence”.
4. Committees of the Board
The Company has the following Board committees in operation: 
the Audit committee, Nomination committee and Remuneration 
committee. These committees are governed by terms of reference 
which are agreed by the Board and can be viewed in the corporate 
governance section of the Company’s website at www.londonmining.
co.uk. All Board committees are required to report to the Board 
of Directors.
4.1 Audit committee
The Audit committee is chaired by Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt DL 
(Senior Independent Non-Executive Director) and consists of 
Dr. Colin Knight and Malcolm Groat as committee members. 
Of the committee members, Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt DL is considered 
independent. The Combined Code recommends the composition of 
the Audit committee to include two Independent Non-Executive 
Directors for small companies. The Company departs from this 
recommendation but is satisfied that the current composition still 
contributes to good corporate governance. Malcolm Groat is 
considered to have recent and relevant financial experience being a 
former Finance Director of the Company and the committee does 
include an Independent Non-Executive Director.
The role of the Audit committee is to ensure the integrity of financial 
reporting, review of internal controls and risk management systems, 
consider the need for and manage the Company’s internal audit 
function, review with the external auditors of the scope and results 
of their audit, make recommendations to the Board and shareholders 
in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the 
Company’s external auditor and to assess the Company’s 
arrangements for whistle-blowing and detecting fraud. 
In 2009, the Audit committee concluded that there was no current 
need for an internal audit function in the Company. This decision  38
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
preparation and fair presentation of the Company’s published 
financial statements in accordance with IFRS. Because of its inherent 
limitations, internal control over financial reporting cannot provide 
absolute assurance, and may not detect all misstatements whether 
caused by error or fraud. 
The Board have established a process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing financial, operational and compliance risks that the 
Company is exposed to. The Board will continue to embed and 
formalise the Group’s risk management systems and processes 
during 2010. This process is also managed in conjunction with the 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Details of the 
Company’s approach to financial risk can be found in note 29 to the 
financial statements. Operational risk is managed at business unit 
level using a flexible approach to ensure risk management processes 
can be tailored to meet specific circumstances. 
Where appropriate, necessary action has been or is being taken to 
remedy any weaknesses identified from review of the effectiveness of 
the Company’s internal control systems.
Details of risks that the Company is exposed to are set out on 
pages 26 to 27.
The Group has performed a review of the Group’s system of internal 
control. In respect of the recently acquired Chinese joint venture, the 
Group is continuing to ensure that steps are taken to achieve the 
standard of internal control expected at all of its operations. 
6. Relations with shareholders
The Company is committed to maintaining the highest standards of 
disclosure ensuring that all investors and potential investors have the 
same access to high quality, relevant information in an accessible 
and timely manner to assist them in making informed decisions. The 
investor relations department manages the flow of information to all 
investors and potential investors and regular presentations take place 
at the time of the quarterly, half year and final results as well as 
during the rest of the year.
Any concerns raised by a shareholder in relation to the Company and 
its affairs are communicated to the Board.
During the year, executive management made presentations to 
potential investors in relation to the Company’s listing on AIM and 
through its continuous disclosure to investors. The Chairman, 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and other Non-
Executive Directors are available to shareholders to discuss any 
matter they wish to raise.
Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which the 
Company is listed, investor presentations, interim financial reports, 
the annual report and other relevant information are posted to the 
Company’s website at www.londonmining.co.uk.
Shareholders will have the opportunity at the forthcoming AGM 
to put questions to the Board, including the Chairmen of the 
various committees. 
4. Committees of the Board continued
4.2 Nomination committee continued
The Non-Executive Directors, led by Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt DL 
(Senior Independent Non-Executive Director) are responsible for the 
appointment and performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking 
into account the views of the Executive Directors.
4.3 Remuneration committee
The Remuneration committee is chaired by Sir Nicholas Bonsor, 
Bt DL (Senior Independent Non-Executive Director) and consists of 
Dr. Colin Knight, Malcolm Groat and Dr. Hans Schønwandt as 
committee members.
Of the committee members, Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt DL is considered 
independent. The Combined Code recommends the composition of 
the Remuneration committee to include two Independent Non-
Executive Directors for small companies. The Company departs 
from this recommendation but is satisfied that the current 
composition still contributes to good corporate governance for the 
reasons discussed in the section “Board independence”. 
The Remuneration committee is responsible for establishing and 
developing the remuneration policy for the Company’s executives 
and key management and for determining specific remuneration 
packages for Executive Directors. No Director or executive employee 
is involved in deciding their own remuneration. 
The Director’s Remuneration report, setting out the Company’s 
policy on executive remuneration, is set out on pages 39 to 42. 
A resolution to approve the Remuneration report will be proposed  
at the forthcoming AGM.
4.4 Board and committee meetings – frequency and attendance
 Board Audit  Remuneration 
 7 meetings 5 meetings 6 meetings
Dr. Colin Knight  7 5 5
Graeme Hossie  7 3
1
 n/a
Rachel Rhodes 7 5
1
 n/a
Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt DL 6 5 6
Malcolm Groat 5 5 6
Dr. Hans Kristian Schønwandt 3 n/a 4
1 Attended by invitation.
There were no Nomination committee meetings as the committee 
was only formed in November 2009.
4.5 Investment committee
The Group has also formed a separate Investment committee to 
appraise significant acquisition and project expenditure opportunities. 
5. Internal controls & risk management
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate 
internal controls and risk management systems to safeguard 
shareholders’ investment and Company assets. 
Internal controls are designed and maintained to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 
Corporate Governance Statement continued 39
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Unaudited information
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the 
Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act 2006. The report 
also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has 
applied the principles relating to Directors’ remuneration in the 
Combined Code. A resolution to approve the report will be proposed 
at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the 
financial statements will be approved.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Company’s members 
on certain parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and to state 
whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations. The report 
has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and 
unaudited information.
1. Remuneration committee
The Remuneration committee has powers delegated to it by the Board 
which are reflected in its terms of reference. These terms of reference 
are available on the Company’s website at www.londonmining.co.uk.
The duties of the Remuneration committee include the consideration 
of all material elements of remuneration policy, remuneration and 
incentives of Executive Directors and senior employees with 
reference to independent remuneration research and professional 
advice in accordance with the Combined Code. The committee will 
make recommendations to the Board on the framework for executive 
remuneration and its cost. 
The Board is responsible for implementing the recommendations of 
the Remuneration committee and agreeing the remuneration 
packages of individual Directors. Directors are not permitted to vote 
on their own terms and conditions of remuneration. Non-Executive 
Directors‘ fees will be determined by the Chairman and the 
executive members of the Board.
1.1 Composition of the Remuneration committee
The members of the Remuneration committee are:
Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt DL (chairman) •	
Dr Colin Knight •	
Malcolm Groat •	
Dr Hans Kristian Schønwandt •	
Prior to the Company’s listing on AIM on 6 November 2009, the 
Chairman of the Remuneration committee was Dr Colin Knight. In 
order to comply with the Combined Code requirement that the 
Chairman of the Remuneration committee is not the Chairman of 
the Company, Sir Nicholas Bonsor was appointed Chairman of the 
Remuneration committee.
None of the remuneration committee members have any personal 
financial interest (other than as shareholders), conflicts of interest 
arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in 
running the Company. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
1.2 Activities of the Remuneration committee
Under its terms of reference the remuneration committee must meet 
at least twice each year. During the year ended 31 December 2009, 
the committee met six times and the following issues were discussed:
Review of the market competitiveness of the remuneration policy •	
and the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors 
and the other members of the Board;
Review the salary levels of Executive Directors and other •	
members of the Board;
Agreement of annual bonuses payable to Executive Directors; •	
Agreement of how the annual bonus plan will operate in 2010; •	
Review current investor guidelines on executive remuneration; •	
and
Grants of share options awarded to Executive Directors and •	
other employees.
In determining the Directors’ remuneration for the year, the 
committee appointed an independent advisory firm to conduct 
a benchmarking exercise for the remuneration of its Non-
Executive Directors. 
2. Remuneration policy
The Group’s remuneration policy is designed to attract and retain 
high calibre Executive Directors and to motivate them to develop 
and implement the Group’s business strategy. Individual 
remuneration packages are structured to align rewards with the 
performance of the Group and the interests of shareholders. The 
committee is responsible for considering and making 
recommendations to the Board on:
Determining the policy for remuneration of the Company’s •	
Directors and key management;
Ensuring appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced •	
performance and that individual contributions to the success of 
the Company are rewarded in a fair manner;
Determining targets for any performance related pay schemes and •	
approving total annual payments made under such schemes;
Reviewing the design of all share incentive plans; •	
Ensuring that contractual terms on termination are fair to the •	
individual and the Company and that failure is not rewarded;
Ensuring that salaries are set a market competitive level by •	
benchmarking against appropriate competitors; and
Ensuring that the overall package reflects market practice and •	
takes into account the levels of remuneration elsewhere in 
the Group.
3. Components of Executive Directors’ remuneration 
Executive Directors’ remuneration consists of basic salary, bonus 
payments, share options and benefits under the Company’s Long 
Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”). None of the Directors serving during 
the year received any remuneration in respect of post-retirement 
benefits.
Bonuses are payable based on the remuneration committee’s 
assessment of the general overall performance of individual 
Executive Directors and in addition on the attainment of certain 
pre-set quantitatively measured objectives. 40
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
3. Components of Executive Directors’ remuneration continued
The maximum annual bonus payable to the Chief Executive that is 
linked to share price performance targets is up to 100% of annual 
base salary. Additional special bonuses may be awarded for 
achievement of significant operational and corporate development 
milestones at the discretion of the Remuneration committee. The 
Chief Financial Officer is entitled to a contractual annual bonus of 
up to £50,000. Additional discretionary bonuses may be awarded to 
the Chief Financial Officer for the achievement of significant 
operational and corporate development milestones that the 
remuneration committee has determined the CFO to have taken an 
active role in. The Non-Executive Directors do not receive 
remuneration in bonuses.
3.1 Share options
Grants of share options are made to Directors employed directly by 
the Group and to entities providing the services of Directors in terms 
of the London Mining Plc No. 1 Share Option Plan and the London 
Mining Plc No. 2 Share Option Plan respectively. The Remuneration 
committee has responsibility for supervising the scheme and 
approving the grant of options under its terms. The grants under the 
Company’s share option plans and awards under the LTIP fall within 
the maximum limit of 10% of share capital that may be awarded for 
share incentive programmes. 
3.2 Long term incentive plan (“LTIP”)
Grants of shares under the Company’s LTIP are made to executive 
management as approved by the Remuneration committee. 
A trust deed has been formalised with Fenlight Trustees, an 
independent company, and a Trust has been established to facilitate 
the operations of the LTIP. Funds are lent by the Company to the 
Trust to fund the acquisition of shares.
4. Compliance with the Combined Code
During the year under review the Company complied with the 
detailed code provisions set out under Section B of the Combined 
Code except as follows:
The Combined Code recommends share options and awards •	
should not vest in less than three years. During 2009 options 
were granted to Directors and employees which vest in tranches 
of one, two and three years. One set of options granted to Graeme 
Hossie vested on the day of grant. These options were all granted 
prior to the Company listing on AIM and under share plans set 
up before the listing on AIM. 
The Combined Code recommends that all incentive schemes, •	
including new grants under existing share option schemes, should 
be subject to challenging performance criteria reflecting the 
Company’s objectives. However, in 2009, certain share options 
awarded were subject to no performance conditions other than 
continued employment as it was considered that for head office 
employees in particular, it is difficult to set performance targets 
that are controllable by individuals. The nature of options is that 
awards become more valuable as the share price increases, which 
is considered to be an indirect performance condition in itself. 
These share options were granted under share plans created 
before the listing on AIM. 
The Directors are eligible for bonuses which are based on the •	
achievement of specific milestones, the limits of which are not 
pre-determined in underlying employment contracts. These are 
determined by the Remuneration committee after a detailed 
appraisal of the Company’s overall performance and achieved 
milestones during the year. In addition, elements of their bonus 
arrangements do not include specified performance criteria but 
are awarded based on individual contribution which is assessed 
and approved by the Remuneration committee.
The number of share options and awards to which Directors are •	
entitled to be granted are not subject to specific performance 
criteria. Awards are based on individual contribution and are 
assessed and approved by the Remuneration committee.
5. Performance graph
The following graph shows the Company’s share price performance 
compared with the performance of the FTSE AIM All Share index 
since the date of listing. 
245
240
235
230
225
220
215
210
205
200
Share Price (p)
15 Nov 30 Nov 15 Dec 30 Dec
Date
FTSE AIM All Share (rebased)
Industrial Metals & Mining (rebased)
London Mining PLC
6. Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration is approved by the Board as 
a whole on the recommendation of the Chairman and Executive 
Directors. Remuneration is sufficient to attract and retain high 
calibre Non-Executive Directors and is compared to Non-Executive 
Directors’ remuneration of similar sized mining companies.
7. Directors contracts
Executive Directors have indefinite term contracts, with the Chief 
Executive having a termination period of 12 months and the Chief 
Financial Officer a termination period of six months. Both contracts 
provide for a termination payment in excess of 12 months salary in 
the result of a change of control of the Company.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 41
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Audited information
8. Directors’ emoluments and compensation
Directors’ remuneration for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 is as follows:
      Compensation 
    Fees/Basic  under return 2009 2008 
Name of Director    salary Bonuses bonus plan
3
 Total total
2
 
    $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
Executive
Chris Brown
1
    37 – – 37 9, 88 1
Graeme Hossie    486 847 – 1,333 9, 3 29
Rachel Rhodes
4
    294 391 539 1,224 128
Malcolm Groat
5
    – – – – 71 5
Non–Executive
Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt DL    199 – – 199 111
Malcolm Groat
5
    89 – – 89 16
Dr Colin Knight    134 – – 134 896
Dr Hans Kristian Schønwandt     77 – – 77 51 8
Aggregate emoluments    1,316 1,238 539 3,093 2 1, 5 94
1 2009 fees are up until date of resignation on 9 February 2009.
2 USD 8.7 million of Directors’ bonuses in 2008 are related to the disposal of the Group’s Brazilian operations and are included within USD 39 million transaction costs in note 13 
to the financial statements.
3 Compensation under the Return Bonus Plan is given to all participants in the Company share-based remuneration schemes for outstanding share based awards that were adversely 
impacted as a result of the 2008 Return of Cash to shareholders. Compensation is granted in accordance with the vesting conditions of the underlying awards. Refer note 7 to the 
financial statements for more details of the Return Bonus Plan. Amounts are included in the table above on a cash basis.
4 2008 fees are from date of appointment on 4 September 2008. Bonuses awarded for the year to 2009 include an amount of USD 82,000 that relates to 2008, but which was not 
approved by Remuneration Committee until 2009. 
5 Resigned as an Executive Director on 4 September 2008 and became a Non-Executive Director on the same date.
9. Directors’ share options and warrants
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of warrants converted to acquire Ordinary Shares granted to, 
or held by the Directors. Details of the share options and warrants exercised during the year are as follows:
      Market Gains on Gains on 
    Number of Exercise price at exercise exercise 
Name of Director    share options price exercise date 2009 2008 
      $ $ $’000 $’000
Executive   
Graeme Hossie
1
    – – – – 1 5,3 23
Non-Executive
Dr Colin Knight    50,000 2.78 3. 15 19 1 ,1 5 2
Aggregate gains       19 16, 4 75
1 Warrants were exercised by Pelos Strategy Ltd during 2008. Graeme Hossie holds a beneficial interest in Pelos Strategy Ltd as he is a potential beneficiary of a trust which owns 
Pelos Strategy Ltd. 42
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
9. Directors’ share options and warrants continued
The following share options, each to subscribe for one Ordinary Share in the Company were held by Directors (or entities in which they have a 
beneficial interest) as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008:
 31 December    31 December Exercise Vesting Expiry 
Name of Director 2008 Granted Forfeited Exercised 2009 price date Date
Executive
Chris Brown 1,500,000 – (1,500,000) – – GBP 1 .74 12 Jul 2008 1 1 Jul 2013
Graeme Hossie 1,500,000 – – – 1,500,000 GBP 1 .74 12 Jul 2008 1 1 Jul 2013
Graeme Hossie – 500,000 – – 500,000 GBP 1 .3 1 30 Jun 2009 29 Jun 2019
Graeme Hossie – 500,000 – – 500,000 GBP 1 .3 1 09 Feb 2010 29 Jun 2019
Graeme Hossie – 500,000 – – 500,000 GBP 1 .3 1 09 Feb 201 1 29 Jun 2019
Rachel Rhodes 166,666 – – – 166,666 GBP 2.37 04 Sep 2009 16 Oct 2018
Rachel Rhodes 166,667 – – – 166,667 GBP 2.37 04 Sep 2010 16 Oct 2018
Rachel Rhodes 166,667 – – – 166,667 GBP 2.37 04 Sep 201 1 16 Oct 2018
Rachel Rhodes – 166,667 – – 166,667 GBP 1 .3 1 24 Apr 2010 29 Jun 2019
Rachel Rhodes – 166,667 – – 166,667 GBP 1 .3 1 24 Apr 201 1 29 Jun 2019
Rachel Rhodes – 166,666 – – 166,666 GBP 1 .3 1 24 Apr 2012 29 Jun 2019
Non-Executive
Dr Colin Knight 250,000 – – (50,000) 200,000 GBP 1 .74 12 Jul 2008 1 1 Jul 2013
Malcolm Groat 100,000 – – – 100,000 GBP 1 .74 12 Jul 2008 1 1 Jul 2013
Dr Hans Kristian Schønwandt 150,000 – – – 150,000 GBP 1 .74 12 Jul 2008 1 1 Jul 2013
Total 4,000,000 2,000,000 (1,500,000) (50,000) 4,450,000
The market price of Ordinary Shares on the Oslo Axess stock exchange at 31 December 2009 was NOK 18.70 and the range during the year 
was NOK 8.9 to NOK 24.4.
The market price of Ordinary Shares on AIM at 31 December 2009 was GBP 2.07 and the range between listing and 31 December 2009 was 
GBP 1.975 to GBP 2.30. 
10. Directors’ LTIP awards
The following long term incentive plan awards each to subscribe for one Ordinary Share in the Company were held by Directors (or entities in 
which they have a beneficial interest) as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008:
    31 December    31 December 
Name of Director    2008 Granted Forfeited Exercised 2009
Executive
Chris Brown
1
    4,718,884 – (3, 1 45,923) (1,572,961) –
Graeme Hossie    4,718,884 – – – 4,718,884
Rachel Rhodes    3 1 4,592 – – – 314,592
1 3,145,923 of these awards lapsed on resignation. 
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors of the Company and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Nicholas Bonsor
Chairman of the Remuneration committee
19 March 2010
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 43
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors are required to 
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by 
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have 
also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements 
under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. Under company law 
the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In 
preparing these financial statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors:
properly select and apply accounting policies; •	
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner •	
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific •	
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a •	
going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They 
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with •	
International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss 
of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors’ •	
report, includes a fair review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Graeme Hossie   Rachel Rhodes
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer
19 March 2010   19 March 2010
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
For the year ended 31 December 2009 44
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
We have audited the financial statements of London Mining Plc for 
the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the consolidated 
income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated company 
cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, 
the related notes 1 to 33, the parent company balance sheet, the 
parent company statement of changes in equity, the parent company 
cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 6. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of •	
the group’s and the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2009 and of the group’s loss for the year then ended;
the financial statements have been properly prepared in •	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with •	
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006
In our opinion:
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has •	
been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006 that would have applied were the Company 
a quoted company; and
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial •	
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent •	
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
the parent company financial statements are not in agreement •	
with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law •	
are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we •	
require for our audit.
Although not required to do so, the Directors have voluntarily 
chosen to make a corporate governance statement detailing the 
extent of their compliance with the June 2008 FRC Combined Code. 
We reviewed:
the Directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ Report •	
in relation to going concern; and
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the •	
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review.
Carl D. Hughes (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London, UK
19 March 2010
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of  
London Mining Plc 45
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Consolidated Income Statement
     Year Ended 31 December
       2009 2008 
      Note $’000 $’000
Continuing operations
Revenue      5 8,878 –
Cost of sales       (6,377) –
Gross profit       2,501 –
Other operating income       2,330 –
Administrative expenses      7 (33,423) (36,815)
Loss from operations       (28,592) (36,815)
Impairment of investment in associate      16c (6,000) –
Share of results of associates (net of tax)      16b (123) (386)
Finance income      9 2,893 28,860
Finance costs      9 (2,171) (74,669)
Loss before taxation       (33,993) (83,010)
Taxation      10 (402) –
Loss for the year – continuing operations        (34,395) (83,010)
Discontinued operations
Profit from discontinued operations      13a – 4,897
Post-tax profit on disposal of discontinued operations      13b – 664, 194
Profit for the year – discontinued operations       – 669 ,091
(Loss)/profit for the year       (34,395) 586,081
Attributable to:
– Equity holders of parent       (34,355) 586 , 11 8
– Minority interest       (40) (37)
       (34,395) 586,081
Return of capital to shareholders
Dividends paid on “B” shares      1 1 – (237 ,820)
Redemption of “C” shares      1 1 – (106, 1 16)
       – (343,936)
Basic & diluted (loss)/earnings per share (USD per share)
From continuing operations      12 (0.33) (0.81)
From discontinued operations      12 – 6.50
       (0.33) 5. 69
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
(Loss)/profit for the year       (34,395) 586,081
Exchange differences arising on change in functional currency      – (5,382)
Exchange difference on consolidation of non USD operations      628 6, 168
       (33,767) 586,867 46
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
     As at 31 December
       2009 2008 
      Note $’000 $’000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets      1 4 49,292 20, 16 1
Property, plant and equipment      15 48,270 1 ,1 3 7
Investment in associates       16a 14,910 20 ,61 0
Non-current inventories      1 7 600 449
Loans and receivables      18 51,020 18 , 500
Total non-current assets       164,092 60,857
Current assets
Current inventories      1 7 66 8
Current loans and receivables      18 3,705 2,73 5
Cash and cash equivalents       205,455 3 16,286
Total current assets       209,226 3 1 9, 0 29
Total assets       373,318 3 79, 886
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables      19 (21,906) (1 1,821)
Deferred consideration payable      24 (8,659) –
Current tax liabilities       (328) –
       (30,893) (1 1,821)
Net current assets       178,333 307 ,208
Non-current liabilities
Other non-current liabilities      20 (4,889) – 
Provisions      21 (1,412) –
Deferred tax liabilities      22 (8,565) (32) 
       (14,866) (32)
Total liabilities       (45,759) (1 1,853)
Total net assets       327,559 368,033
Equity
Share capital      23 398 398
Share premium account       20,094 1 9 ,954
Shares held in employee benefit trust       (14,167) (5, 159)
Other reserves       21,523 1 9, 543
Retained earnings       299,312 332,858
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent       327,160 36 7, 5 94
Minority interest       399 439
Total equity       327,559 368,033
The financial statements of London Mining Plc (Company Number 05424040) were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2010 
and are signed on their behalf by:
Graeme Hossie    Rachel Rhodes
Chief Executive Officer   Chief Financial Officer
Consolidated Balance Sheet 47
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
       Equity   
       attributable   
  Share Shares held  Warrant Foreign to equity   
 Share premium in employee Retained and option exchange holders of Minority Total 
 capital account benefit trust Earnings reserve
1
 reserve
2
 the parent interest equity 
 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Balance at 31 December 2007 362 101,093 – (21,243) 1 1, 493 18,377 1 10,082 – 1 10,082
Changes in equity for year ended 
31 December 2008
Exchange difference arising on  
 change in functional currency – – – – – (5,382) (5,382) – (5,382)
Exchange difference on consolidation 
 of non USD operations – – – – – 6, 168 6, 168 – 6, 168
Recognition of share-based payments – – 877 – 1 1,018 – 1 1,895 – 1 1,895
Issue of share capital  
 (net of expenses) 36 24,977 – 2,586 (7 , 450) – 20, 1 49 – 20, 1 49
Share premium extinguished in  
 redemption of C shares – (106, 1 16) – – – – (106, 1 16) – (106, 1 16)
Income received by Employee  
 Benefit Trust on C share redemption – – – 3,21 7 – – 3,21 7 – 3,21 7
Dividends paid on “B” shares – – – (237 ,820) – – (237 ,820) – (237 ,820)
Acquisition of subsidiary – – – – – – – 476 476
Acquisition of shares for employee  
 benefit trust – – (6,036) – – – (6,036) – (6,036)
Foreign exchange disposed on  
 sale of subsidiary – – – – – (1 4,681) (1 4,681) – (1 4,681)
Profit for the year – – – 586, 1 18 –  586, 1 18 (37) 586,081
Balance at 31 December 2008 398 19 ,954 (5, 159) 332,858 15,061 4, 482 367 ,594 439 368,033
Changes in equity for year ended  
31 December 2009
Exchange difference on consolidation 
 of non USD operations – – (288) – – 916 628 – 628
Recognition of share-based payments – – 2,386 809 1,064 – 4,259 – 4,259
Issue of share capital (net of  
 expenses) on exercise of options – 140 – – – – 140 – 140
Acquisition of shares for employee  
 benefit trust – – (11,106) – – – (11,106) – (11,106)
Loss for the year – – – (34,355) – – (34,355) (40) (34,395)
Balance at 31 December 2009 398 20,094 (14,167) 299,312 16,125 5,398 327,160 399 327,559
1 The warrant and option reserve includes warrants and options granted as equity settled employee benefits and warrants issued for cash.
2 The foreign exchange reserve movement in the year to 31 December 2008 includes exchange differences arising on change in functional currency of the Company. 48
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
     Year ended 31 December
        2009 2008 
      Note $’000 $’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash used by operations      25 (19,761) (23,91 7)
Interest received       919 8 , 74 7
Interest expense       (16) (7 ,648)
Income taxes paid       (261) –
Net cash outflow from operating activities – continuing operations      (19,119) (22,818)
Net cash inflow from operating activities – discontinued operations      – 4,845
Net cash outflow from operating activities – total Group       (19,119) (1 7 ,973)
Cash flows from investing activities
Loans and investments in joint ventures      24 (38,727) –
Loans and investments in associates       (1,000) (21,575)
Other loans and investments       (5,750) (1,000)
Convertible loans issued to third parties       (5,000) (18,500)
Cash acquired on acquisition of joint venture       140 –
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired       – (227) 
Payments to acquire intangible assets      25 (24,771) (10,045)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment       (4,494) (804)
Proceeds from sale of discontinued operations, net of transaction costs    13d (541) 77 1 ,1 88
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities – continuing operations     (80,143) 7 1 9, 03 7
Net cash outflow from investing activities – discontinued operations      – (21,899)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities – total Group      (80,143) 697, 1 38
Cash flows from financing activities
Acquisition of shares by the Employee Benefit Trust, net of shares redeemed     (11,106) (2,819)
Proceeds from issue of Ordinary Shares, share options and warrants      140 1 9, 83 1
Cash outflow on share based payments       (1,060) –
Callable and Puttable Bonds 2007/2012 (defeased)      20 – (67 ,598)
Dividends paid on “B” shares      1 1 – (228, 489)
Redemption of “C” shares      1 1 – (101,952)
Net cash outflow from financing activities – continuing operations      (12,026) (381,027)
Net cash outflow from financing activities – discontinued operations     – (1,500)
Net cash outflow from financing activities – total Group       (12,026) (382,527)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents       (111,288) 296,638
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year       316,286 90 , 7 18
Exchange differences       457 (71,070)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year       205,455 3 16,286
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 49
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. General information
London Mining Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and throughout the year ended 
31 December 2009 was listed on the Oslo Axess stock exchange. The Company listed on the London AIM stock exchange on 6 November 
2009. The address of the registered office is 39 Sloane Street, London, SW1X 9LP. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal 
activities are set out in note 6 and in the Operations and Financial Review.
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing the financial statements, (see page 34 of the Directors Report).
2. New and revised International Financial Reporting Standards
(a) Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards
The Group has adopted with effect from 1 January 2009, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – Revised, IAS 1 
Presentation of Financial Statements Improvements, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Amendments and IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors to 
allocate resources to segments and assess their performance. In contrast, the predecessor standard (IAS 14 Segment Reporting) required the 
Group to identify two sets of segments (business and geographical), using a risks and rewards approach, with the Group’s system of internal 
financial reporting to the Board of Directors serving only as a starting point for the identification of such segments. 
Up until the AIM listing in November 2009, the Board of Directors reviewed the performance of the Group based on two business segments: 
the mining, extraction and production of iron ore and the mining, extraction and production of coal. Following the listing, the Board of 
Directors moved its focus for strategic decision making and allocation of resources to individual projects, rather than at the consolidated 
division level. This is particularly relevant during the development phase of each project as the Group looks to optimise each asset.
The Board of Directors evaluates the performance of the Group principally with reference to revenue generated, earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (“EBITDA”), expected capital costs and forecast production. Segment result represents the EBITDA for each 
segment and excludes any allocation of central administration costs and overheads. Segmental disclosures are presented in note 6. 
The adoption of IAS 1 has resulted in a consolidated statement of comprehensive income being presented as a primary statement. The Group 
has elected to continue to present a separate income statement.
The amendments to IFRS 7 expand the disclosures required in respect of fair value measurements and liquidity risk. The application of these 
disclosures does not require any restatement of the comparatives disclosed in these accounts.
The adoption of IAS 23 (as revised in 2007) Borrowing Costs during the year has not resulted in a material impact on the financial statements 
of the Group.
(b) New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not been adopted by the EU):
IFRS 3 (as revised in 2008) Business Combinations (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009)
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013)
IAS 27 (as revised in 2008) Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009)
IAS 28 (as revised in 2008) Investments in Associates (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009)
Amendments to IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations (effective date of 1 January 2010)
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment – Vesting Conditions and Cancellations (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009)
Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows (effective date of 1 January 2010)
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the 
financial statements of the Group with the exception of the treatment of acquisition of subsidiaries and associates when IFRS 3 (revised) 
2008, IAS 27 (revised 2008) and IAS 28 (revised 2008) come into effect for business combinations occurring from 1 January 2010, being the 
first annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2009. The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 3 (Revised), however as this 
will be applied prospectively, this adoption will not impact the position as represented in the Annual Report and financial statements for the 
year ended 31 December 2009. 50
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies
(a) Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”). The financial 
statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements 
comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments which are measured at fair 
value. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below. 
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption under section 405 of the Companies Act 2006 and consequently the income statement of the 
parent company is not presented as part of these financial statements. The loss of the parent company for the financial year amounted to 
USD 19 million (2008: USD 596 million).
(b) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its 
subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating 
policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are presented separately from the Group’s equity. Minority interests consist of 
the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minority interest’s share of changes in equity since the 
date of the combination.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of 
acquisition, or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those 
used by the Group. All intra group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
(c) Joint venture entities
During the period, the Group acquired its first interest in a joint venture entity. A joint venture entity is an entity in which the Group holds a 
long term interest and shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating decisions with one or more other ventures under a 
contractual arrangement.
The Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash flows of such jointly controlled entities are accounted for using 
proportionate consolidation. Proportionate consolidation combines the Group’s share of results of the joint venture entity on a line by line 
basis with similar items in the Group’s financial statements.
(d) Foreign currencies
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions entered into by Group entities in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange 
prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in 
foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when fair value was determined. Exchange differences are recognised in the 
consolidated income statement in the period in which they arise.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated at 
exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, 
unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used. 
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and are recognised in the Group’s foreign exchange reserve. On disposal these 
exchange differences are recycled to form part of the Group’s calculation of the profit and loss on disposal.
On 1 September 2008, the functional currency of the Company changed from GBP to USD. This change was made following the disposal of 
the Group’s Brazilian operations in August 2008, the proceeds of which were received in USD. The Directors consider the USD to represent 
most faithfully the economic effects of events, conditions, future direction and investment opportunities in the Group.
On disposal of the Group’s Brazilian operation, the foreign exchange reserve relating to Brazil was transferred to the consolidated income 
statement and is included in post-tax profit on disposal of discontinued operations, (see note 13).  51
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
(e) Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the 
fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange 
for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business 
combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities, and contingent liabilities recognised. If, after 
reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost 
of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minority interest’s proportion of the net fair value of the 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
(f) Discontinued operations
On 19 August 2008, the Group completed the sale of its Brazilian operations to ArcelorMittal. The results of the Brazilian operation were 
treated as “discontinued” in the comparatives to these accounts and have been disclosed in accordance with IFRS 5 – Non-current Assets Held 
for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
The profit for the year of the Brazilian operations up to the date of disposal has been disclosed as a single amount in the consolidated income 
statement and the cash flows attributable to the operating, investing and financing activities have been disclosed separately in the 
consolidated cash flow statement. Comparative figures in the consolidated income statement and consolidated cash flow statement have also 
been restated to disclose the Brazilian operations separately.
(g) Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the net invoice value of goods and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting 
discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed, and when revenue can be measured reliably. This is 
generally when title and any insurance risk have passed to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
(h) Finance income
Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and foreign exchange gains. Interest income is recognised in the income 
statement as it accrues, using the effective interest rate method.
(i) Finance costs
Financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, the accumulation of interest on 
provisions and foreign exchange losses.
(j) Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expenses that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet 
liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of any deferred tax asset is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised. 52
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(k) Intangible assets (exploration and evaluation expenditure)
The costs of exploration properties and leases, which include the cost of acquiring prospective properties and exploration rights, are 
capitalised as intangible assets.
Mineral rights and exploration and evaluation costs arise from expenditure incurred prior to development activities and include the cost of 
acquiring and maintaining the rights to explore, investigate, examine and evaluate an area for mineralisation. These costs include 
metallurgical testing, conducting geological and environmental studies, exploratory drilling and sampling, market studies, engineering 
consulting and other such costs incurred in evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource. 
Mineral rights and exploration and evaluation expenditure are capitalised within intangible assets until such time that the activities have 
reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially exploitable reserves. Once this has occurred, the 
respective costs previously held as intangible assets are transferred to property, plant and equipment. 
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is assessed for impairment in accordance with the indicators set out in IFRS 6 Exploration 
for and Evaluation of Mineral Reserves. In circumstances where a property is abandoned, the cumulative costs relating to the property are 
written off.
(l) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Each item’s estimated useful life is based on the physical life limitation of the specific asset. Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a 
regular basis for all mine buildings, plant and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items. Changes in estimates are accounted for 
prospectively and depreciation commences when the item is available for use.
Property, plant and equipment relating to mineral reserves and leases are depreciated using the unit of production method.
Buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated down to their residual values at varying rates, on a straight line basis over their estimated 
useful lives or life of the mine, whichever is shorter. Estimated useful lives normally vary from up to 10 years for items of plant and equipment 
to a maximum of 25 years for buildings. Fixtures and fittings are depreciated over three years.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from 
the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on de-recognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised. Assets under construction 
are capitalised and included as work in progress at purchase price plus directly attributable costs to bring the asset into working condition for its 
intended use. On completion construction in progress is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
(m) Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in 
order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other 
assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (or cash generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately in the 
consolidated income statement.
(n) Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control, through participation in the 
financial and operating policy decisions of the investee. 
The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method of accounting. Investments 
in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the 
associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. 53
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of fair values of the identifiable assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is 
recognised as goodwill. The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that 
investment. If the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition exceeds the cost of 
acquisition the difference is credited in the income statement in the period of acquisition. 
(o) Inventories
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business in bringing 
each product to its present location and condition. Cost for raw materials and consumables is purchase price and for work in progress and 
finished goods is the cost of production, including the appropriate proportion of depreciation and overheads. Raw materials and consumables 
are stated on a first-in first-out (“FIFO”) basis. The cost of work in progress and finished goods is based on the weighted average cost method. 
In the case of work in progress and finished goods, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity. 
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to 
completion and disposal.
(p) Receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value net of an appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
(q) Convertible loan receivable
In the consolidated balance sheet, the Group’s financial assets investments have all been classified as “loans and receivables”. These are 
initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. The Company’s financial asset 
investments include amounts owed by subsidiaries, classified as “loans and receivables” and equity holdings in subsidiaries and associates, 
which are held at cost less any provision for impairment. Provision is raised against these assets when there is a doubt over future realisation 
as a result of a known event or circumstance.
Derivatives embedded in financial instruments (including rights to covert loan receivables to equity investments) or non-financial host 
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts and the 
host contracts themselves are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement. Changes in the fair 
value of derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement. 
(r) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash.
(s) Borrowings
Interest bearing bank borrowings are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct transaction costs. Finance charges are accounted for on 
an accruals basis and charged to the income statement using the effective interest method. They are added to the carrying amount of the 
instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
(t) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
(u) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event for which it is probable that 
an outflow of an economic benefit will occur. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the 
obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material. Details of provisions are listed in note 21.
The Group has an obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs when environmental disturbance is caused by the 
development of a mining property. These costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular review. Provision 
is not made for additional obligations expected to arise from future disturbance. 
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised and depreciated through operating costs. The provision is 
discounted to present value and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
(v) Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 54
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(w) Share-based payments (including warrants)
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and consultants. Equity-settled share-based payments are 
measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant 
date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of 
shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions. The fair value is determined at grant date 
by use of a binomial model and taking account of market based vesting conditions.
(x) Return Bonus Plan
The London Mining Return Bonus Plan (the “RBP”) was adopted by the Group on 4 September 2008. Under the RBP, cash bonus awards 
can be made to participants in the London Mining Plc Share Option Plan, the London Mining Plc No. 1 (employees only) Share Option Plan 
(together, the “Plans”) and the London Mining Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “LTIP”) if either a special dividend or return of share capital 
is made by the Company (the “Return of Cash”) after the date of grant of the bonus award but prior to the exercise/vesting of the related 
option/LTIP award granted under the Plans/LTIP and no compensating adjustment is made to such option/LTIP award to take account of the 
Return of Cash. Participants in the LTIP have the choice to participate in the RBP or to have a compensatory adjustment made to the number 
of their underlying awards.
The bonus awards granted under the RBP entitle participants to receive a cash payment equal to the number of Ordinary Shares under the 
related option/LTIP award multiplied by the aggregate amount due per Ordinary Share under the Return of Cash. The bonus awards vest and 
lapse in accordance with the terms of the related option/LTIP award held under the Plans/LTIP, and are accounted for in accordance with the 
Group’s policy for share-based payments, set out above.
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are 
based on historical experience and other factors which are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
(a) Impairment of assets
The Group reviews the carrying value of its intangible assets and property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication 
that those assets are impaired. The recoverable amount of those assets is measured at the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and value 
in use.
Directors necessarily apply their judgement in estimating the probability, timing and value of underlying cash flows and in selecting 
appropriate discount rates to be applied within the value in use calculation. Such estimates and forecasts include commodity prices, foreign 
exchange rates, capital expenditure, future commissioning dates, production targets and operating costs. Subsequent changes to estimates 
and assumptions in the value in use calculation could impact the carrying value of the respective assets. 
The carrying value is also dependent on the estimate of mining reserves and resources, for which there are inherent uncertainties as the 
estimation is a subjective process based on the quality and quantity of available data.
In the case of the Group’s joint venture investment in China the carrying value is reliant on the joint venture being able to acquire 
neighbouring mines which are included in the joint venture’s current extended mining license. If the integration is not completed on a timely 
basis, or the joint venture is not able to prove up and mine sufficient reserves within the extended mining license there is a risk that the 
carrying value will not be supported in full. The current mining license permits mining to a depth of 28m below sea level. Access to additional 
resource below this depth will require an extension to the existing license. It is expected that this will be achieved for a commercially 
acceptable fee, but if this does not occur then there is a risk that the carrying value will not be supported in full.
(b) Valuation of share-based payments
In order to value options and warrants granted, the Group has made judgements as to the volatility of its own Ordinary Shares, the probable 
life of the options and warrants granted and the time of exercise of those options and warrants. The Group has also made a judgement as to 
which methodology to use in valuing the options and warrants.
(c) Tax provisions
Judgement is required in determining tax positions for the Group as it is subject to tax in several jurisdictions. Assessments are made on the 
advice of independent tax advisors and through consultation with relevant tax authorities. While the Directors believe that these estimates 
and forecasts are reasonable, actual results could vary significantly from these estimates. 55
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
(d) Estimation of provision for restoration and rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure
Estimating the cost of settling the legal or constructive obligation for rehabilitation, including decommissioning and dismantling equipment 
and restoring the mine site from damage caused to the environment during the development can be complicated and subjective. These costs 
are likely to be significant and are likely to be impacted by future regulatory obligations, future technological developments and the future 
costs of engineers and other skilled labour. Determining the timing of future cash flows and an appropriate discount rate will also impact the 
provision required. 
Where Directors believe that the provisions for restoration and rehabilitation will be significant, the Group obtains third party valuations to 
estimate the likely cost. These judgements and estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances 
but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
5. Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. The Group’s revenue in the year to 31 December 2009 is all 
attributable to its share of revenue at the Chinese operation. All sales in China are made at the factory gate, usually for cash in advance at a 
fixed monthly price contracts so there is no price exposure at the balance sheet date. 
6. Segment reporting
Following the AIM listing on 6 November 2009, the Board of Directors moved its focus on strategic decision making and capital allocation to 
an individual project level. This is particularly relevant during the development phase of each project as the Group looks to optimise each 
asset. Prior to the listing on AIM, London Mining was focussed on two divisions; iron ore and coal. As each project is transformed through 
the development and expansion phases and the Group grows, the Board may revisit its internal management reporting structure accordingly.
The Group operates in four principal geographical areas, Sierra Leone, Saudi Arabia, Greenland and China.
Segmental information is presented for continuing operations only. The Brazilian operations discontinued in the prior year, which are 
described in more detail in note 13, are therefore excluded. The Group’s discontinued operations relate to the mining, extraction and 
production of iron ore. 
The comparative data has been restated to be on a consistent basis.
Segment revenues and results
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results from continuing operations by reportable segment. The key segment result 
presented to the Board of Directors for strategic decision making and allocation of resources is EBITDA. Group EBITDA represents loss from 
operations excluding depreciation, (and therefore excludes share of results of associates and impairment of investment in associate). Group 
EBITDA is analysed below.
The analysis of the Group’s revenue and results from continuing operations by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2009 is 
as follows:
   Segment revenue 
|
 Segment result
     Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 
     31 December  31 December 31 December 31 December 
     2009 2008 2009 2008 
     $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Iron ore projects
Sierra Leone      – – (4,740) (2,996)
Saudi Arabia      – – (1,574) –
Greenland      – – (689) (4)
China      8,878 – 5,952 –
Unallocated, including Corporate     – – (24,718) (33, 426)
Group Revenue      8,878 –
Group EBITDA       (25,769) (36, 426)
Total depreciation charge for the year       (2,823) (389)
Loss from operations       (28,592) (36,815)
Impairment of investment in associate       (6,000) –
Share of results of associates (net of tax)       (123) (386)
Finance income       2,893 28,860
Finance costs       (2,171) (74,669)
Loss before tax (continuing operations)       (33,993) (83,010) 56
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
6. Segment reporting continued
Segment revenues and results continued
Revenue reported above represents revenue generated from external customers. There were no inter-segment sales in the year (2008: Nil). All 
revenue relates to the sale of iron ore concentrate made by CGMR and is made to several local buyers and traders.
EBITDA includes unallocated costs for non-cash charges in relation to share based payments. There are no other material non-cash charges 
included in EBITDA. 
Impairment losses of USD 6.0 million (2008: Nil) were recognised in respect of the investment in DMC Coal Mining (Pty) Ltd (see note 16c). 
Segment assets and liabilities
   Segment assets  
|
 Segment liabilities
     31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 
     2009 2008  2009 2008 
    Note $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Iron ore project
Sierra Leone     15,724 7 ,275 (991) (258)
Saudi Arabia     16,039 2,398 (2,196) –
Greenland     21,041 7 , 498 (1,483) –
China     67,643 – (23,890) –
     120,447 17 , 17 1 (28,560) (258)
Group investment in associates    16a 14,910 20,610 – –
Unallocated, including Corporate     237,961 342, 105 (17,199) (1 1,595)
Total     373,318 379 ,886 (45,759) (1 1,853)
For the purposes of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, all assets are allocated to reportable 
segments other than investments in associates and convertible loans and other investments, which are classified as “unallocated”.  
All liabilities are allocated to reportable segments other than liabilities held within the corporate head office.
Segment depreciation and additions to non-current assets
   Depreciation and  Additions to 
   amortisation 
|
 non-current assets
1
 
     Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 
     31 December  31 December 31 December 31 December 
     2009 2008 2009 2008 
     $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Iron ore project
Sierra Leone     281 218 5,791 2 , 11 0
Saudi Arabia     12 – 13,348 2,398
Greenland     338 – 13,322 6 ,07 1
China     2,059 – 47,070 1,386
Other projects     – – 198 21,044
Unallocated, including Corporate     133 17 1 99 365
Total     2,823 389 79,828 33 ,3 7 4
1 The non-current asset additions above comprise additions to intangible assets, property plant and equipment, non-current inventory, and investments in associates but exclude 
loans, convertible loans and receivables. Non-current assets acquired on acquisition of the China operations have also been included. During 2008, up to the date of disposal of 
19 August 2008, the discontinued Brazilian operations had additions to property, plant and equipment of USD 21.9 million which is not included in the table above as it is 
classified as discontinued. 57
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Segment non-current assets
     Non-current assets 
       31 December 31 December  
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Iron ore project
Sierra Leone       14,199 1 0 ,020
Saudi Arabia       15,734 2,398
Greenland       20,508 7 , 409
China       45,228 –
North America       1,365 1 ,1 69
United Kingdom       1,718 7 51
Total       98,752 2 1, 74 7
Non-current assets stated above include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, non-current inventory and prepayments and 
exclude loans and receivables and investments in associates. 
7. Administrative expenses
Included in administrative expenses relating to continuing operations are:
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Return Bonus Plan
1
       4,230 16, 1 00
Share-based payments to consultants
2
       – 1 , 31 2
Staff costs (see note 8)
 Share-based payments to staff, Directors and key management
2
      5,319 9, 388
 Directors and key management remuneration excluding share-based payments     4,765 2 ,420
 Other staff costs       4,319 1,704
Consultancy and legal fees       4,690 1,842
Depreciation
3
        764 389
Fees payable to the Group’s auditors for the audit of the Group’s statutory accounts    279 143
Fees payable to the Group’s auditors for other services to the Group (including AIM listing)
4
    644 5
Fees payable to other audit firms and prior year auditors       63 228
Operating lease costs – property       697 253
AIM listing fees (excluding amounts paid to auditors)       2,191 –
1 Details of the Return Bonus Plan are set out in Note 3(x). Following the approval of the Return of Cash to shareholders of 200 pence per Ordinary Share at the General Meeting 
held on 10 November 2008, bonus awards were made under the Return Bonus Plan to all optionholders and two LTIP awardholders. Payment is due within five business days of 
the vesting of the related option/LTIP award or, if the related option/LTIP award is already vested, within five business days of (and including) the Return of Cash. In aggregate, 
USD 2.0 million has been paid in cash for the year ended 31 December 2009 (2008 USD 13.3 million) and a further USD 7.4 million is due (subject to the Return Bonus Plan rules), 
payable over the next three years, of which USD 1.4 million will be covered by proceeds from the exercise of respective options.
2 The amount in respect of share-based payments is non-cash and relates solely to equity settled arrangements.
3 Depreciation of USD 2,059,000 is included within cost of sales in the income statement relating to CGMR BVI. Total depreciation of USD 2,823,000 is included in the loss for the 
year ended 31 December 2009.
4 Other services undertaken by the Group’s auditors included work performed on the AIM listing of USD 273,000, other corporate finance services of USD 114,000 and taxation 
services of USD 257,000. 
8. Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees for continuing operations (including Directors) was:
       2009 2008 
       Number Number
Mine development       204 204
Corporate       27 14
       231 2 18
The Group’s share of the 465 staff employed by the Chinese operations have not been included in the numbers above. 58
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
8. Staff costs continued
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Staff other than Directors and key management personnel:
Wages and salaries       4,912 1, 65 7
Social security costs       217 47
Share-based payment expense       436 73
       5,565 1,777
Directors’ and key management personnel:
Wages and salaries       4,549 2 ,1 3 9
Social security costs       216 281
Share-based payment expense       4,883 9, 3 1 5
       9,648 11 , 7 3 5
Total staff costs       15,213 1 3 , 51 2
Key management personnel are those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of 
the Group, being the Directors of the Group, the Head of Corporate Development, the Head of Legal and the Chief Operating Officer of 
the Group. 
9. Finance income and costs
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Finance income
Interest income from cash and cash equivalents       919 8 , 74 7
Interest income from loans receivable       342 –
Unwinding of discount on net loan receivable from joint venture       375 –
Exchange gains
1
       1,257 20 , 11 3
       2,893 28,860
Finance costs
Interest payable       16 71
Interest on Callable and Puttable Bonds 2007/2012
2
       – 6, 408 
Unwinding of discount on liabilities       307 –
Exchange losses
1
       1,848 68 ,1 90
       2,171 74 , 669
1  In 2008, the USD 809.9 million proceeds from the disposal of the Brazilian operations was received in August 2008 when the USD: GBP exchange rate was 1.8621. In order to 
mitigate exposure to foreign exchange movements on this GBP denominated distribution, the Group converted USD 400 million to GBP 224 million at a rate of USD: GBP 1.7875 
in September 2008. Although the Group had fixed its GBP cash flow exposure for the Return of Cash, an accounting foreign exchange loss was recorded on declaration of the 
dividend in November 2008 following the significant devaluation of GBP, against the USD to 1.57 USD: GBP. At balance sheet date, the Group no longer has any significant 
non-USD cash deposits which would give rise to further currency exposure. 
2 The callable and puttable bonds were repaid on 1 October 2008 using proceeds from the disposal of the Group’s Brazilian operations. 59
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
10. Taxation
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Income tax recognised in the income statement:
Analysis of charge in year:
Current tax       (646) –
Deferred tax credit relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences     244 –
       (402) –
Analysis of charge in year:
Loss before taxation       (33,993) (83,010)
Expected tax credit based on rate of corporation tax in UK of 28.0% (2008: 28.5%)    9,518 23 ,658
Expenses not deductible for taxation       (5,369) (3,5 1 1)
Tax effect of associates       (34) (1 10)
Tax deductible items included in discontinued operations       – 1,95 7
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation       488 3
Different tax rates applied in foreign jurisdictions       60 68
Tax losses not recognised
1
       (5,065) (22,065)
       (402) –
1 No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses. These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
 
11. Dividends
No dividend was declared for the year ending 31 December 2009.
On 20 August 2008, in connection with the sale of Group’s Brazilian operations, a proposal was announced to return 200 pence per Ordinary 
Share to shareholders. The Return of Cash was approved by the shareholders at a General Meeting on 10 November 2008. Under the terms of 
the Return of Cash, shareholders elected to receive either one “B” share or one “C” share. Shareholders who elected for the “B” shares were 
issued with “B” shares, on which they received a dividend of 200 pence per share. Shareholders who elected for the “C” shares were issued 
with “C” shares, which were redeemed by the Company for a redemption price of 200 pence per share.
On 19 November 2008 a dividend of GBP 151,478,000 (USD 237,820,000) was declared to “B” shareholders and the “C” shares were 
redeemed for GBP 67,590,000 (USD 106,116,000). A total of GBP 219,068,000 (USD 343,936,000) cash was returned to shareholders.
12. Earnings per share
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the (loss)/earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders by the weighted average number of 
Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year, excluding shares held in the employee benefit trust.
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Loss from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company     (34,355) (82,973)
Profit from discontinued operations attributable to equity holders of the Company    – 669 ,091
       (34,355) 586 , 11 8
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue        103,741,724 102,87 1 ,987
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the Company
Continuing operations       (0.33) (0.81)
Discontinued operations       – 6.50
Total earnings per share       (0.33) 5. 69
(b) Diluted
The outstanding options, warrants and LTIP awards at 31 December 2009 and 2008 represent anti-dilutive potential Ordinary Shares with 
respect to earnings per share for continuing operations. Therefore, basic and diluted earnings per share is the same for the current and prior year. 60
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
13. Discontinued operations
On 19 August 2008, the Group completed the sale of the Brazilian operations to ArcelorMittal for a total cash consideration of 
USD 809.9 million. On reclassification of these operations as held for sale, the Group did not recognise any impairment losses. 
The results of the discontinued operations included in the consolidated income statement are set out below. The comparative profit has been 
restated to include those operations classified as discontinued in the current period.
As part of the disposal, the Company granted certain warranties and indemnities to the purchaser, ArcelorMittal. Having taken appropriate 
legal advice, the Group believes the likelihood of a material liability arising is remote.
(a) Profit from discontinued operations
        2008 
        $’000
Revenue        9,462
Cost of sales        (4,298)
Gross profit        5, 164
Sales and distribution expenses        (61)
Depreciation and amortisation        (1,573)
Administrative expenses        (1,501)
Profit from operations        2,029
Finance income        6,797
Finance costs        (1,060)
Profit before taxation        7,766
Taxation        (2,869)
Total profit from discontinued operations        4,897
Attributable to:
– Equity holders of parent        4,897
– Minority interests        –
Total profit from discontinued operations        4,897
(b) Post-tax profit on disposal of discontinued operations
        As at 
        19 August 2008 
        $’000
Consideration received on disposal of discontinued operations       809 ,901
Less: transaction costs        (39 ,222)
Less: premium paid on early settlement of bonds        (6,865)
Less: net assets disposed (c)        (66,849)
Less: intragroup loans repaid on disposal        (47 , 452)
Less: foreign currency translation recycled on disposal        1 4,681
Pre-tax profit on disposal of discontinued operations        664, 194
Taxation
1
        –
Post-tax profit on disposal of discontinued operations        664, 194
1 The Company anticipate no UK tax to be payable on the disposal of the Brazilian operations since it is anticipated the sale will qualify for the UK substantial shareholdings exemption. 61
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
(c) Carrying amounts of assets and liabilities of discontinued operations
The major classes of assets and liabilities of the Brazilian operations of the Group at 19 August 2008 were as follows:
        As at 
        19 August 2008 
        $’000
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents        5,898
Property, plant and equipment        109 ,635
Intangible assets        90
Inventories        24,848
Receivables        1,659
Deferred tax assets        33
        142,163
Liabilities
Trade and other payables        3,281
Borrowings        65, 415
Provisions        1,892
Deferred tax liabilities        4,244
Tax liabilities        482
        75,314
Net assets disposed        66,849
(d) Proceeds from sale of discontinued operations, net of transaction costs
In January 2009 USD 541,000 of previously accrued transaction costs were paid out in respect of the Group’s sale in 2008 of its 
Brazilian operation.
In the year to December 2008, proceeds of USD 809.9 million were received, and transaction costs of USD 38.7 million were paid.  62
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
14. Intangible assets
       Mineral 
       rights and 
       exploration 
       and evaluation 
      Software costs Total 
     Note $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost 
1 January 2008      – 9 ,5 16 9 ,5 16
Additions      – 10,045 10,045
Acquisition of subsidiary      – 1, 102 1, 102
Disposals from discontinued operation      – (1 10) (1 10)
Transfer from property, plant and equipment      – 91 91
Exchange differences      – (483) (483)
31 December 2008      – 20, 161 20, 161
Additions     25 106 30,587 30,693
Transfers to other assets      – (217) (217)
Transfer to property, plant and equipment     15 – (1,345) (1,345)
31 December 2009      106 49,186 49,292
Amortisation 
1 January 2008      – 27 27
Charge for the year      – – –
Disposals from discontinued operation      – (20) (20)
Exchange differences      – (7) (7)
31 December 2008      – – –
Charge for the year      – – –
31 December 2009      – – –
Net carrying value 
1 January 2008      – 9 , 489 9 , 489
31 December 2008      – 20, 161 20, 161
31 December 2009      106 49,186 49,292
Mineral rights and evaluation and exploration costs consist of costs incurred on the exploration of the Group’s Marampa, Wadi Sawawin and 
Isua projects located in Sierra Leone, Saudi Arabia and Greenland respectively. 
During 2009 USD 1,345,000 of costs relating to the Isua camp set up in Greenland were transferred out of intangible assets and into property, 
plant and equipment. 
In addition USD 217,000 of legal costs relating to the Chinese acquisition were transferred out of intangible assets and into receivables due 
from joint ventures as these costs are to be recovered from the Chinese joint venture.
The Group has certain licences which will be subject to renewal during 2010 but management has no reason to believe that these will not be 
renewed in the ordinary course of business. Mineral rights and exploration and evaluation costs will be transferred to property, plant and 
equipment once the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the respective projects is demonstrable. These costs will then be 
depreciated on a unit of production basis of tonnes mined over the total resource. Intangible software costs will be amortised over three years. 63
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
15. Property, plant and equipment
   Freehold   Buildings, 
  Mining land & Capital Office plant & Closure and 
  properties leasehold work in equipment machinery & restoration 
  and leases improvements progress and furniture motor vehicles provision Total 
 Note $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost
1 January 2008  73,223 1, 1 70 5,077 257 3,078 – 82,805
Additions  – 9 18, 187 609 3,898 – 22,703
Disposals from discontinued operations  (80,5 10) (1,301) (24, 159) (300) (6,375) – (1 12,645)
Disposals  – – – (30) – – (30)
Transfers to intangible assets  – – (91) – – – (91)
Exchange differences  7 ,287 122 1,077 21 347 – 8,854
31 December 2008  – – 91 557 948 – 1,596
Additions  392 1,486 – 155 973 – 3,006
Acquisition of joint venture  24 36,190 – 4 53 7,984 1,374 45,605
Transfers from intangible assets 1 4 – – – – 1,345 – 1,345
31 December 2009  36,582 1,486 95 765 11,250 1,374 51,552
Depreciation     
1 January 2008  937 1 – 34 429 – 1, 401
Charge for the year  71 1 8 – 132 1, 1 1 1 – 1,962
Disposals from discontinued operations  (1,723) (10) – (29) (1,248) – (3,010)
Disposals  – – – (30) – – (30)
Exchange differences  75 1 – (1) 61 – 136
31 December 2008  – – – 106 353 – 459
Charge for the year  1,338 – – 219 1,221 45 2,823
31 December 2009  1,338 – – 325 1,574 45 3,282
Net carrying value     
1 January 2008  72,286 1, 169 5,077 223 2,649 – 81, 404
31 December 2008  – – 91 45 1 595 – 1, 137
31 December 2009  35,244 1,486 95 440 9,676 1,329 48,270
No items of property, plant and equipment were pledged as security as at 31 December 2009 (2008 USD Nil).
16. Investments
(a) Investment in associates
       Note $’000
31 December 2007        402
Acquisition of International Coal Company Ltd        5,081
Acquisition of DMC Coal Mining (Pty) Ltd        16,394
Transfer to subsidiaries on acquisition of Anglo Mexican Mining Ltd       (43 1)
Share of results of associates (net of tax)        (386)
Exchange differences        (450)
31 December 2008        20,610
Impairment       16c (6,000)
Share of results of associates (net of tax)        (123)
Exchange differences        423
31 December 2009        14,910 64
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
16. Investments continued
(a) Investment in associates continued
Investments in associates held at 31 December 2009 relate to investments made during 2008 in DMC Consolidated Ltd, (“DMC Coal”) and 
International Coal Company Ltd, (“ICC”), (see note 32 for post balance sheet events related to the Group’s DMC and ICC investments).
Further details of investments in associates including the country of incorporation and principal activity are given in note 33.
(b) Share of results of associates
Aggregated amounts relating to associates are set out below:
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Total assets
1
       22,614 28,832
Total liabilities       (7,704) (8,222)
Group’s share of associates net assets       14,910 20 ,61 0
Group’s share of results of associates (net of tax)       (123) (386)
1  Included in total assets of associates are mineral reserves and licences of USD 20.7 million (2008 27.2 million). The reduction year on year arises due to the impairment, see 
16c below.
(c) Impairment of investment in associate
In August 2009, following the application review of the Pixley Ka Seme coal project by the South African Department of Minerals and Energy, 
Delta Mining Consolidated (Pty) Ltd, management brought to London Mining’s attention that it would no longer proceed with this prospect. 
As a result of this information, London Mining wrote down its investment in DMC Coal Mining (Pty) Ltd by USD 6.0 million as at 30 June 
2009, reflecting the amount of the acquisition cost the Group had attributed to this particular project. DMC Coal held this asset in its books 
at cost rather than fair value, and as such did not have an equivalent asset write down.
17. Inventories
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Non-current 
Ore tailings/ore stockpiles       600 449
       600 449
Current 
Consumables       37 8
Work in progress       29 –
       66 8
       666 457 65
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
18. Loans and receivables
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Non-current 
Prepayments       590 –
Loan to joint venture partner      24 5,750 –
Loan to joint venture      24 17,850 –
Management fee receivable from joint venture      24 2,330 –
Convertible loans receivable
1
       5,000 –
Convertible loans to associates
2
       19,500 18 , 500
       51,020 18 , 500
Current 
Prepayments       595 266
Receivable from joint venture partner       690 –
Convertible loan receivable from joint venture partner
3
       1,000 –
Receivable from joint venture       559 1,000
Other receivables       861 1 ,469
       3,705 2,73 5
       54,725 2 1 ,235
1 Convertible loans receivable of USD 5.0 million relate to a loan made to Atacama Mining Resources (BVI), a company with the option to acquire certain exploration and mining 
licences in Chile. The loan is unsecured and interest free. The loan is convertible at any time by London Mining into 50% of Atacama Mining Resources (BVI). 
2  Convertible loans to associates of USD 19.5 million includes a USD 18.5 million receivable from the DMC Group, which, along with the Group’s 39.3% share of DMC Coal Mining 
(Pty) Limited, has been converted at nil gain or loss into a 28% holding in DMC Consolidated in January 2010 (see note 32). In addition on 27 November 2009, a USD 1 million 
convertible loan was made to International Coal Company Limited. Interest is charged on this loan at 8% per annum. This loan is due for repayment at the earliest of any date after 
27 November 2011, or on a change of control of International Coal Company Ltd. 
3 Current receivables from the joint venture partner include USD 1.0 million convertible into shares in Wits Basin at USD 0.10 per share. This loan is convertible on demand 
following written notice provided to Wits Basin. Interest is accrued on this at 8% per annum.
The Directors consider the fair value of receivables at 31 December 2009 not to be materially different to their carrying value and there are no 
impairment provisions. The value of the conversion options in relation to Atacama Mining Resources and International Coal Company have 
not been measured as they are interests in unquoted entities which cannot be measured reliably.
19. Trade and other payables
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables       3,485 1 ,61 8
Other taxation and social security       765 1 01
Accruals       17,656 10 , 102
       21,906 11 , 82 1
Trade and other payables include USD 2.4 million, (2008 USD 0.9 million) in relation to exploration and evaluation costs for the Group’s 
Sierra Leone, Greenland and Saudi projects.
The Directors consider the fair value of trade and other payables at 31 December 2009 not to be materially different to their carrying value. 
20. Other non-current liabilities 
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Group share of loan payable to joint venture partner       2,167 –
Accruals       1,136 –
Group share of other non-current liabilities payable to joint venture partners     1,586 –
       4,889 – 66
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
20. Other non-current liabilities continued
The movement in borrowings during 2008 was as follows:
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Opening balance       – 85 , 121
Recognition of issue costs on Callable and Puttable Bonds 2007/2012      – 273
Callable and Puttable Bonds 2007/2012 legally defeased        –  (67 ,598)
Unwinding of discount on deferred payment portion of MIL purchase price     – 972
Payment of instalment on deferred payment portion of MIL purchase price     – (1,500)
Borrowings disposed on sale of discontinued operation       – (1 7 ,980)
Net foreign currency exchange differences       – 7 12
       – –
21. Provisions
       2009 2008 
      Note $’000 $’000
Opening balance at 1 January        – 1, 65 3
Acquisition of joint venture      24 1,374 –
Disposal of discontinued operation       – (1,892)
Unwinding of discount       38 65
Net exchange differences       – 17 4
Closing balance at 31 December       1,412 –
The 2009 provision relates to the Group’s share of the restoration and rehabilitation of the jointly owned Chinese operations.
22. Deferred tax liabilities
     Unrealised 
   Recognition Accelerated foreign Deferred 
   of inventory capital exchange development 
   balance allowances gains costs Other Total 
Group   $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
At 1 January 2008   1 1 1 1 47 854 – – 1, 1 12
Charged to the income statement – discontinued operation  1 40 558 2, 1 71 – – 2,869
Disposed through discontinued operation   (268) (704) (3,239) – – (4,21 1)
Exchange differences   1 7 3 1 21 4 – – 262
31 December 2008   – 32 – – – 32
(Credited)/charged (to the income statement)    – – – (280) 36 (244)
Acquisition of joint venture   – – – 8,681 96 8,777
31 December 2009   – 32 – 8,401 132 8,565
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused losses of USD 101.7.0 million (2008 USD 86.5 million) available for offset against future 
taxable profits. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses. The losses may be carried forward indefinitely. At the 
balance sheet date, there are no temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries or associates. 67
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
23. Share capital
     2009  2008 
    No. of shares  $’000 No. of shares $’000
Authorised: 
Ordinary shares of GBP 0.002 each    200,000,000 730 200,000,000 730
Deferred shares of GBP 0.000001 each    120,000,000 – 120,000,000 –
C shares of GBP 2.00 each    33,794,785 123,283 33,794,785 123,283
     124,013  12 4 ,0 1 3
Ordinary shares 
Issued and fully paid: 
At 1 January    109,533,795 398 99 , 15 1,842 362
Issued during the year    50,000 – 10,381,953 36
    109,583,795 398 109 ,533,795 398
During the year to 31 December 2009 50,000 shares were issued following the exercise of options.
Share capital has been translated at the USD/GBP exchange spot rate on 1 September 2008 being the date of the Company’s change in 
functional currency.
Following the return of capital approved by the shareholders at a General Meeting on 10 November 2008 it was resolved on 19 November 
2008 to increase the authorised share capital from USD 729,600 to USD 124,013,195 by the creation of 120,000,000 B shares at 
GBP 0.000001 each and 33,794,785 C shares at GBP 2.00 each. 
On 19 November 2008 it was resolved that USD 116 of the Company’s profits available for distribution (as defined in Companies Act 1985) be 
applied in paying up in full 75,739,010 B shares and that such B shares shall be allotted, issued and credited as fully paid. On the same day, a 
dividend of USD 3.14 (GBP 2.00) per B share was declared. Following payment of the dividend, the B shares converted into deferred shares. 
On 19 November 2008, the Company also resolved that USD 106,116,000 of the share premium be applied in paying up in full 33,794,785 
C shares and that such C shares shall be allotted, issued and credited as fully paid. On the same day the C shares were redeemed for 
USD 3.14 (GBP 2.00) per share.
Employee benefit trust
The Company established the London Mining Long Term Incentive Trust on 4 August 2008 (the “EBT”) as a discretionary trust, for the 
benefit of employees of the London Mining Group. The independent trustee of the Trust, Fenlight Trustees Limited (the “Trustee”) has 
agreed to purchase shares in the Company from the market and to use those shares to satisfy certain options or awards made under the 
terms of the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan and share options plans. During 2009 1,081,525 shares were distributed on the exercise of 
LTIP awards and 6,743,868 shares were acquired in the year. The Group’s employee benefit trust had 6,710,943 shares at 31 December 2009 
(2008: 1,048,600).
Rights attached to the Ordinary Shares
Each Ordinary Share carries rights to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Rights attached to the deferred shares
(a) Income
The Deferred Shares shall confer no right to participate in the profits of the Company.
(b) Capital
On a return of capital on a winding-up (excluding any intra-group re-organisation on a solvent basis) there shall be paid to the holders of 
the Deferred Shares the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on such Deferred Shares after paying to the holders of the Ordinary 
Shares the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on the Ordinary Shares held by them respectively, together with the sum of 
GBP 1,000,000 on each Ordinary Share. The holders of the Deferred Shares shall not be entitled to any further right of participation in the 
assets of the Company.
(c) Attendance and voting at general meetings
The holders of the Deferred Shares shall not be entitled to receive notice of any general meeting of the Company or to attend, speak or vote at 
any such meeting. 68
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
23. Share capital continued
Rights attached to the deferred shares continued
(d) Form
The Deferred Shares shall not be listed on any stock exchange nor shall any share certificates be issued in respect of such shares. The Deferred 
Shares shall not be transferable except in accordance with (f) below or with the written consent of the Directors.
(e) Class rights
The Company may from time to time create, allot and issue further shares, whether ranking pari passu with or in priority to the Deferred 
Shares, and on such creation, allotment or issue any such further shares (whether or not ranking in any respect in priority to the Deferred 
Shares) shall be treated as being in accordance with the rights attaching to the Deferred Shares and shall not involve a variation of such rights 
for any purpose or require the consent of the holders of the Deferred Shares. The reduction by the Company of the capital paid up on the 
Deferred Shares and the cancellation of such shares shall be in accordance with the rights attaching to the Deferred Shares and shall not 
involve a variation of such rights for any purpose and the Company shall be authorised at any time to reduce its capital (subject to the 
confirmation of the Court in accordance with the Companies Acts) without obtaining the consent of the holders of the Deferred Shares.
(f) Transfer and purchase
The Company may at any time (and from time to time), (subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts) without obtaining the sanction of 
the holder or holders of the Deferred Shares:
(i) Appoint any person to execute on behalf of any holder of Deferred Shares a transfer of all of the Deferred Shares or any part thereof (and/or 
an agreement to transfer the same) to the Company or to such person as the Directors may determine (whether or not an officer of (or agent 
for) the Company), in any case for not more than one penny for all the Deferred Shares then being purchased from him, which payment 
can be made, if the Directors so determine, to charity; and
(ii) if the Company so elects, cancel all or any of the Deferred Shares so purchased by the Company in accordance with the Companies Acts.
At the date of this report the Company’s Long Term Incentive Trust holds 4,378,600 existing Ordinary Shares as part of the trust fund.
24. Acquisitions
Investment by London Mining Plc in the CGMR BVI joint venture
On 23 April 2009, the Company completed a joint venture agreement with Wits Basin Precious Minerals, Inc. (“Wits Basin”) in relation to a 
50:50 joint venture company, China Global Mining Resources (BVI) Limited (“CGMR BVI”). Under the terms of the agreement, the Company 
subscribed USD 38.7 million for 100 A Shares in CGMR BVI and made a direct loan to Wits Basin for USD 5.75 million, making a total initial 
investment of USD 44.5 million. 
As part of the joint venture agreement, the cash received from London Mining of USD 38.7 million was passed by CGMR BVI to its wholly 
owned subsidiary China Global Mining Resources Limited (“CGMR HK”), a Hong Kong entity. CGMR HK then completed the acquisition of 
two Chinese companies: Xiaonanshan Mining Co Limited (“XNS”) and Nanjing Sudan Mining Co Limited (“Sudan”).
This note is set out in two parts. The first summarises the acquisition of XNS and Sudan from the perspective of CGMR BVI, whilst the 
second part summarises how London Mining Plc has accounted for this transaction at a consolidated level.
Acquisition of XNS and Sudan by CGMR BVI 
Under the terms of the acquisition, the sellers, Mr Lu Benzhao and Ms Lu Tinglan, receive consideration of approximately USD 42.25 million 
in cash (subject to post closing adjustments) in return for the sale of 100% of the equity of XNS and Sudan. Of this consideration, 
USD 24.77 million has been paid and USD 17.48 million is deferred. Mr Lu Benzhao has been paid an additional USD 10.21 million by 
CGMR BVI which is included in the cost of acquisition. He will also receive a further USD 38.64 million under a consulting agreement with 
CGMR BVI, payable subject to both continuing employment and available cash of CGMR BVI, which will largely flow from the operations of 
the acquired entities: hence this amount has been excluded from the cost of acquisition. Under the joint venture arrangements, London 
Mining will receive priority dividends from CGMR BVI until its USD 44.5 million initial investment is repaid. 
CGMR HK has also been granted the right to acquire a further iron ore mining company, Maanshan Zhaoyuan Mining Co Ltd (Matang), 
which is owned by the sellers of XNS and Sudan. 
From the perspective of CGMR BVI, the total cost of the acquisition was USD 58.6 million after taking into consideration directly related 
transaction costs, management’s best estimate of completion adjustments and certain liabilities assumed from the other joint venture partner. 69
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Accounting for CGMR BVI by London Mining
The Company has proportionately consolidated 50% of CGMR BVI from 23 April 2009. For accounting purposes the USD 38.7 million 
investment in CGMR BVI is treated as debt due from the joint venture of USD 34.9 million (discounted for the timings of the anticipated cash 
inflows) and an equity contribution to the joint venture of USD 3.8 million (in exchange for the Group’s 50% interest). The Group’s 
consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2009 shows: 
USD 5.75 million non-current “loan to joint venture partner” representing the interest-bearing loan to Wits Basin (included in non-current •	
loans and receivables note 18); 
USD 17.85 million net non-current “loan to joint venture” representing the joint venture partner’s 50% share of the USD 35.7 million •	
liability in CGMR BVI representing the original USD 34.9 million debt due, as noted above, accreted for the period to 31 December 2009 
for the timings of the anticipated cash inflows (included in non-current loans and receivables note 18); and 
USD 2.3 million net management fee receivable into the Group from the joint venture (included in non-current loans and receivables note 18). •	
The provisional fair value of the net assets of CGMR BVI at the date of acquisition and the related net cash outflow are shown below. The fair 
values presented are provisional and will be finalised by 23 April 2010 as permitted by International Financial Reporting Standards:
    Provisional 
   Book value fair value 
   of assets adjustment Provisional Provisional London 
   acquired by and CGMR BVI CGMR BVI Mining London 
   CGMR BVI acquisition fair value fair value Fair value Mining Total 
   100% entries 100% 50% adjustment 50% share 
    $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Net assets acquired
Mineral resources  (a) – 59,428 59,428 29,714 5,008 34,722
Mining rights   2,935 – 2,935 1,468 – 1,468
Tangible assets  (b) 7,605 11,224 18,829 9,415 – 9,415
Other non-current assets   917 – 917 459 – 459
Current assets   568 – 568 284 – 284
Completion balance sheet adjustments   – – – – – –
Loan due to London Mining Plc
1
  (c) – (34,994) (34,994) (17,497) – (17,497)
Deferred transaction costs payable by joint venture  (c) – (3,088) (3,088) (1,544) – (1,544)
Wits Basin liabilities assumed by CGMR BVI  (c) – (4,244) (4,244) (2,122) – (2,122)
Transaction costs recoverable from joint venture    – (1,600) (1,600) (800) – (800)
Deferred consideration to vendor   (d) – (16,953) (16,953) (8,477) – (8,477)
Current liabilities   (4,002) – (4,002) (2,001) – (2,001)
Provisions  (e) – (2,747) (2,747) (1,374) – (1,374)
Deferred tax payable  (a) (192) (14,857) (15,049) (7,525) (1,252) (8,777)
Net assets acquired    7,831 (7,831) – – 3,756 3,756
Satisfied by:
Equity contribution by London Mining Plc         3,756
1 As there is a contractual obligation for London Mining to receive an amount equal to its initial investment in the CGMR BVI as priority dividends, the cash paid by London Mining 
on the acquisition of its China investment is accounted for as a debtor due from the joint venture and not a cost of investment. This loan is interest free and is expected to be repaid 
from available profits within three years. It is therefore classified as non-current and has been discounted by applying the ten year USA bond rate of 3.125%.
Provisional fair value adjustments
The fair values presented are provisional and will be finalised by 23 April 2010 as permitted by International Financial Reporting Standards. The 
Provisional fair value adjustments made to the underlying book value of assets and liabilities acquired by London Mining Plc in CGMR BVI as follows:
(a) The valuation of mineral reserves and resources purchased, grossed up for the respective deferred tax liability, calculated at 25%, being the 
local rate in the People’s Republic of China. 
(b) A fair value increase to the book value of tangible assets acquired.
(c) All non-interest bearing long term financial liabilities or assets recognised on acquisition are discounted to net present value to record their 
fair values at the date of acquisition. The discount is unwound until the expected repayment date through net finance income.
(d) The deferred consideration shown above is, at present, due for immediate payment and has therefore been included within current 
liabilities in the Group’s balance sheet. The joint venture is in discussions with the vendor to defer payment in light of its plans to raise 
external finance prior to seeking a listing on the Hong Kong stock exchange. The provisional fair value reflects the net present value of the 
anticipated cash outflows under the expected timing of repayment. Its carrying value at 31 December 2009, after incorporating an 
unwinding of the discount factor for the period since acquisition is USD 8.7 million.
(e) The recognition of a provision at the date of acquisition to cover restoration and rehabilitation costs for the mine to be rehabilitated. 70
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
24. Acquisitions continued
Investment by London Mining Plc in the CGMR BVI joint venture continued
The results for the year ended 31 December 2009 since acquisition include:
        Total profit 
        attributable 
      Share of London to Chinese 
      joint venture
1
 Mining Plc operations 
Income statement      $’000 $’000 $’000
Revenue      8,878 – 8,878
Cost of sales
2
      (4,318) – (4,318)
Administrative expenses      (938) – (938)
Profit from operations, before London Mining management fee     3,622 – 3,622
London Mining management fee       (2,025) 4,355 2,330
EBITDA      1,597 4,355 5,952
Depreciation      (1,898) (161) (2,059)
Profit/(loss) from operations      (301) 4,194 3,893
Net finance income      (682) 751 69
Profit/(loss) before taxation      (983) 4,945 3,962
Taxation      (442) 40 (402)
Profit/(loss) since acquisition      (1,425) 4,985 3,560
1 Group’s 50% share since acquisition.
2 Excluding depreciation.
25. Notes to the cash flow statement
       2009 2008 
      Note $’000 $’000
(a) Reconciliation of (loss)/profit for the year to cash outflows from operating activities 
(Loss)/profit for the year       (34,395) 586,081
Adjusted for: 
Profit for the year – discontinued operations       – (669 ,091)
Share of results from associates       123 386
Impairment of investment in an associate      16c 6,000 –
Depreciation       2,823 389
Finance income       (2,893) (28,860)
Finance costs       2,171 74 , 669
Share-based payments expense       5,319 1 0 ,700
Tax expense       402 –
       (20,450) (25,726)
Increase in non-current receivables       (2,330) –
Increase in current receivables       (535) (712)
Increase in inventories       (156) –
Increase in payables       3,710 2, 5 21
Cash outflow from operating activities       (19,761) (23,91 7)
(b) Payments to acquire intangible assets 
Additions of intangible assets      1 4 (30,693) (10,045)
Less: transfers from debtors       118 –
Less: amounts accrued       5,804 –
Payments to acquire intangible assets       (24,771) (10,045)
26. Share-based payments
Share options and warrants to subscribe for Ordinary Shares in the Company are granted to certain employees, Directors and consultants 
providing services to the Group. Options are exercisable at a price equal to the closing quoted price of the Company’s shares on the date of 
grant. The vesting period varies from immediate settlement to three years and there may or may not be other vesting/performance conditions. 
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the group before the options vest. 71
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Each employee share option or LTIP award converts into one Ordinary Share on exercise. No amounts are paid or payable by the recipient on receipt 
of an LTIP award. An amount equal to the share price at the date of grant is payable by the recipient on the exercise of each option. The options carry 
neither rights to dividends nor voting rights. Options may be exercised at any time from the date of vesting to the date of their expiry.
The number of options granted is calculated in accordance with the performance-based formula approved by shareholders at a previous 
annual general meeting and is subject to approval by the remuneration committee.
      2009  2008 
      Average  Average 
      exercise price  exercise price 
      in pence  in pence 
     Number per share Number per share
Options
At 1 January     6,080,000 208.40 4,630,000 1 74.00
Granted    4,120,000 157.94 1,900,000 284.00
Forfeited    (1,900,000) 187.26 (100,000) 1 74.00
Exercised    (50,000) 174.00 (350,000) 1 74.00
At 31 December    8,250,000 188.28 6,080,000 208.40
      2009  2008 
      Average  Average 
      exercise price  exercise price 
      in pence  in pence 
     Number per share Number per share
Warrants 
At 1 January     500,000 174.00 5,233,000 47 .23
Exercised    – – (4,733,000) 33.89
At 31 December    500,000 174.00 500,000 1 74.00
Long Term incentive plan awards
At 1 January     10,252,360 – 3,000,000 –
Granted    250,000 – 600,000 –
Granted on Return of cash     – – 6,652,360 –
Forfeited    (3,245,923) – – –
Exercised    (1,572,961) – – –
At 31 December    5,683,476 – 10,252,360 –
Of the 8,250,000 outstanding options at 31 December 2009, 3,826,666 were exercisable (2008: 4,130,000). Of the 500,000 outstanding 
warrants at 31 December 2009, 500,000 were exercisable (2008: 500,000 warrants were exercisable). Of the 5,683,476 outstanding LTIP 
awards at 31 December 2009 none were exercisable (2008: none). 
The related weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options and warrants exercised during 2009 was USD 3.1545 
(2008: USD 5.416). The options outstanding at the end of 31 December 2009 had a weighted average exercise price of USD 3.0403 
(2008: 5.3081) and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.56 years (2008: 1.75 years). The inputs into the binomial model for all 
share options granted during the year and the preceding year were as follows:
       2009 2008
Weighted average fair value of option (USD)       1.3093 5.42 4 7
Weighted average exercise price (USD)       2.1354 5.3081
Expected volatility       50.0% 44.7%
Expected life       1.45 years 1 .75 years
Risk free rates       2.89% 4.67%
Expected dividend yields       0% 0%
The estimated aggregate fair value of the options granted during the year to 31 December 2009 was USD 5.4 million, (2008: USD 6.5 million).
Expected volatility of the options issued during the year to 31 December 2009 was determined by calculating the average volatility between 
the 7 October 2007 date of listing on the Oslo Axess Stock Exchange and the date of grant. The expected volatility of any options or warrants 
issued during the prior year were determined on a weighted average basis using the share price volatilities reflected by groups engaged in the 
mining industry with characteristics similar to those of the Group. See note 7 for the total expense recognised in the income statement for 
share options and warrants granted to Directors and employees. 72
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
26. Share-based payments continued
On 18 November 2008, following the approval of the Return of Cash by shareholders, the Company announced that the LTIP awards held by 
Chris Brown, Graeme Hossie and Rachel Rhodes were adjusted pursuant to the rules of the Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) to 
maintain the value of awards immediately prior to the Return of Cash. The awards held were increased as shown below:
       LTIP awards LTIP awards 
       held after held before 
       bonus award bonus award
Chris Brown       4,718,884 1,500,000
Graeme Hossie       4,718,884 1,500,000
Rachel Rhodes        3 1 4,592 100,000
During 2009, Chris Brown exercised 1,572,961 LTIP awards being one third of the awards above. This exercise was satisfied by shares held in 
the Employment Benefit Trust. The remaining two thirds of these awards lapsed on his resignation on 9 February 2009.
Share options and warrants outstanding at 31 December 2009 are as follows:
       Exercise price 
Expiry date     Number Vesting date in pence
Options 
12 September 2012     130,000 3 1 March 2008 1 74
12 September 2012     50,000 01 January 2009 1 74
14 May 2013     500,000 15 May 2010 344
14 May 2013
1
     500,000 15 May 2010 344
02 May 2013     500,000 03 May 2009 309
11 July 2013     2, 450,000 12 July 2008 1 74
16 October 2018     166,666 04 September 2009 237
16 October 2018     166,667 04 September 2010 237
16 October 2018     166,667 04 September 201 1 237
30 June 2019     500,000 30 June 2009 13 1
30 June 2019     500,000 09 February 2010 13 1
30 June 2019     500,000 09 February 201 1 13 1
30 June 2019     166,666 24 April 2010 13 1
30 June 2019     166,667 24 April 201 1 13 1
30 June 2019     166,667 24 April 2012 13 1
30 June 2019     83,333 01 April 2010 13 1
30 June 2019     83,333 01 April 201 1 13 1
30 June 2019     83,334 01 April 2012 13 1
30 June 2019     33,333 16 March 2010 13 1
30 June 2019     33,333 16 March 201 1 13 1
30 June 2019     33,334 16 March 2012 13 1
30 June 2019     10,000 7 July 2009 13 1
30 June 2019     10,000 7 July 2010 13 1
30 June 2019     10,000 7 July 201 1 13 1
30 June 2019     30,000 23 June 2010 13 1
30 June 2019     30,000 12 June 201 1 13 1
30 June 2019     30,000 23 June 2012 13 1
30 June 2019     50,000 08 December 2009 161
30 June 2019     50,000 08 December 2010 161
30 June 2019     50,000 08 December 201 1 161
30 June 2019
(1)
     1,000,000 23 June 2012 13 1
     8,250,000
Warrants 
20 August 2010     500,000 30 November 2008 1 74
     500,000
1 These options are subject to various non-market performance conditions and vested from November 2009 through to 30 September 2013. 73
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
27. Operating leases
At 31 December 2009, the Group had the following minimum cumulative commitments under non-cancellable operating leases.
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Expiry date 
Within one year       686 334
One to five years       685 737
After five years       2,933 1 ,553
       4,304 2,62 4
Operating lease commitments after five years largely relate to mining lease obligations.
28. Contingent liabilities
As part of the acquisition of its Chinese joint venture described in note 24, the vendor has an entitlement to receive further consideration of up 
to USD 38.6 million under consulting agreements payable subject to continuing employment for up to eight years and available cash in CGMR 
after the priority repayment of the Group’s USD 44.5 million initial investment and subsequent ongoing distribution rights. The Group has 
not recognised any provision for the year ended 31 December 2009 based on the Directors current expectation that the likelihood of the 
vendor being entitled to a material balance is remote.
As part of the disposal of the Brazilian operations, London Mining granted certain warranties and indemnities to the purchaser, 
ArcelorMittal. Having taken appropriate legal advice, the Group believes the likelihood of a material liability arising is remote.
29. Financial instruments, risk management and exposure
(a) Financial risk and risk management
The following disclosures represent the risk management policies and procedures of the Group.
Credit Risk
The Group is principally exposed to credit risk from cash and cash equivalents and deposits held with financial institutions, loans and other 
receivables. It is Group policy to manage credit risk by:
holding and investing cash in multiple, reputable financial institutions •	
dealing with creditworthy counterparties •	
The Group does not enter into derivatives to manage credit risk.
i) Cash and cash equivalents
The objective in respect of cash and cash equivalents is to maximise returns whilst minimising risks. To maximise credit protection all cash 
and cash equivalents funds are held with a variety of major banks invested in AAA funds to minimise credit risk. 
The policy of the Group is to hold funds at parent company level and minimise funds held within operating and service subsidiaries. This 
reduces credit risk by ensuring funds are held in higher rated funds. A cash call process occurs each month. Each subsidiary submits a 
monthly cash call with support to be approved and released by the parent company.
ii ) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables represent a potential credit risk due to the possibility of default.
Loans and other receivables primarily relate to loans due from joint venture and associate partners. Impairment reviews are conducted 
frequently on these receivables. 
Liquidity risk
The Group has sufficient cash resources which provide liquidity to support Group strategy in the medium term. Certain of the Group’s 
mining projects require significant additional financing which represents a liquidity risk to the Group. To mitigate this risk bankable 
feasibility studies are conducted in advance of funds being committed or to support the raising of external finance.
To manage this risk the Group produces regular cash flow forecasts to estimate the timing and the size of any funding gap. This is updated at 
least quarterly and presented to the Board. The forecast includes an expectation of when payments for capital contracts will be required.
It is the policy of the Group not to enter into capital contracts such that commitments exceed available funds at any time. 74
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
29. Financial instruments, risk management and exposure continued
(a) Financial risk and risk management continued
Market risk
i) Commodity price risk
Cash flows are forecast using forecast prices for iron ore and coal. Sensitivities are performed using a variety of commodity price assumptions 
to highlight commodity price risk. 
The Group’s only currently producing asset is its 50% interest in CGMR. Sales are made at a fixed price at factory gate and at the balance 
sheet date the Group had no financial instruments with exposure to commodity price risk.
The Group has not used any commodity price derivatives in this or the prior year. There is no current intention to hedge future sales. This 
policy may change subject to future financing arrangements.
ii) Exchange rate risk 
The functional currency of all Group subsidiaries is the USD. Although the majority of the Group’s transactions are recorded in USD, some 
operating costs and investments are incurred in British Pounds, Chinese Renminbi, Australian Dollar, South African Rand, EURO, and 
Danish Kroner.
The Group manages foreign exchange risk by holding cash balances in USD and GBP for respective supplier payments. It is anticipated 
that future commercial transactions for the Group will be in USD which is the same as the functional currency of the Company and 
its subsidiaries. 
At balance sheet date, the Group held GBP 2.2 million (2008: GBP 7.9 million) in its cash at bank balance. A movement of 5% strengthening 
or weakening of the USD to GBP would respectively decrease or increase the Group’s profit before tax by USD 0.2 million (2008: 
USD 0.5 million) based on the Group’s current GBP cash balance.
At balance sheet date, the Group held GBP 7.8 million (2008 GBP 0.5 million) in trade and other payables. A movement of 5% strengthening 
or weakening of the USD to GBP would respectively decrease or increase the Group’s profit before tax by USD 0.6 million (2008: USD nil) 
based on the Group’s current payables balance.
The Group policy is to negotiate contract terms where possible in USD to reduce exchange rate risk. A portion of the Group’s capital cost will 
be incurred in currencies which are not denominated in USD.This gives rise to an exchange rate risk in that the rate at the time of entering 
into a contract can be different to when payments are made. 
The Group has not used any exchange rate derivatives in this or the prior period. 
iii) Interest rate risk
Fluctuations in interest rates impact on the value of cash investments and financing activities, giving rise to interest rate risks. The Group has 
no loans or receivables which have floating interest rates.
iv) Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
(b) Potential impact of market risks
i) Credit risk 
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2009 was USD 259 million (2008: USD 336 million). The Group’s financial 
assets do not represent a concentration of material exposure of credit risk.
The Group does not have any financial assets that are past due or impaired except those noted below:
The convertible loan of USD 18.5 million due from DMC Group was past due at the balance sheet date, but at the reporting date has been •	
converted in equity into DMC Consolidated, see note 32.
Management fees of USD 2.3 million are due from the CGMR joint venture. London Mining has temporarily waived cash payment whilst •	
the joint venture has been conducting a drilling campaign and pursuing expansion strategies. The amount is recoverable in full and will be 
received when there is available cash from operations and or proceeds raised from intended funding. 75
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
ii) Liquidity risk 
At 31 December 2009, the Group’s financial liabilities consisted primarily of trade and other payables and deferred consideration payable due 
within two months of the year end, and an amount of USD 4.9 million accrued in respect of the Return Bonus plan, as discussed in note 7. 
iii) Sensitivity analysis
Financial instruments affected by market risk include cash and cash equivalents, loans and receivables and trade payables. Any change in 
market variables, (exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices) will have an immaterial effect on these instruments. 
(c) Classification of financial instruments
The carrying amounts of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are as follows:
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Non-current Financial assets:  
Convertible loan receivable from joint venture partner       1,000 –
Convertible loan receivable from associate partner       18,500 18 , 500
Non-current loan receivable from third party       5,000 –
Non-convertible loan receivable from joint venture partner      5,750 –
Loan receivable from joint venture       20,180 –
Current Financial assets:  
Cash and cash equivalents       205,455 3 16,286
Convertible loan receivable from joint venture partner       – 1,000
Receivable from Joint venture partner       1,342 –
Receivable from Joint venture       733 –
Other receivables       553 571
       258,513 336,357
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Financial liabilities: 
At amortised cost: 
 Deferred consideration payable       (8,659) –
 Current trade and other payables       (20,814) (1 1,774)
 Non-Current trade and other payables       (4,889) –
       (34,362) (1 1,774)
30. Capital Commitments
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets       1,561 –
Commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment      53 –
       1,614 –
The Group’s share of the capital commitments of its jointly controlled operations is USD nil.
31. Related party transactions
At 31 December 2009 the Directors of the Group and their related parties, and entities in which they had a beneficial interest, controlled 
3.97% (2008: 15.9%) of the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, joint venture and its associates. Transactions between Group entities are 
eliminated on consolidation and are not included in this note. 
During the year to 31 December 2009, a management fee of USD 4.4 million (2008: nil) of which the Group’s share is USD 2.3 million was 
accrued from CGMR BVI to London Mining. At 31 December 2009, London Mining had advanced an amount of USD 38.7 million to CGMR 
BVI, which will be recovered via priority dividends from available cash of the operations. The Group’s share of this balance, which, for 
reasons outlined in note 24, is recorded on consolidation as a loan at its estimated fair value, of USD 17.9 million. London Mining has also 
recognised an amount due of USD 1.5 million which relates to consultancy costs and legal fees recoverable from the joint venture.  76
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
31. Related party transactions continued
The Group continues to hold a 20% investment in International Coal Company Limited (“ICC”). G Hossie, the Chief Executive Officer of 
London Mining Plc has a beneficial interest of 12% in ICC. As a consequence of this interest, Mr Hossie does not represent London Mining 
on the ICC board and does not participate in any decisions of the London Mining board in relation to ICC. On 27 November 2009, a 
convertible loan of USD 1.0 million was issued by London Mining Plc to ICC. This loan bears interest at a rate of 8% per annum and is 
repayable on the earlier of: (i) 27 November 2011; (ii) a change of control of ICC. The loan can be converted on any date after 27 November 
2010, and will be converted at a price where USD 1.0 million equals 3% of the fully diluted share capital of ICC. 
32. Events after the balance sheet date
Delta Mining Consolidated
On 8 August 2008, London Mining through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Rannerdale, announced that it had agreed to take an initial 39.3% 
interest in DMC Coal, a company in which parent company DMC Consolidated SA (“DMC”) has a 30.35% interest, for a total consideration 
of USD 16.5m. London Mining also issued a USD 18.5m loan to DMC Energy, a subsidiary of DMC. DMC is the holding company for all the 
DMC group’s coal and iron ore assets and prospects in Africa, which include: Rietkuil coal project, Springbok Flats coal project, and Limpopo 
coal project, all in South Africa and various coal prospecting and exploration rights in Botswana and Swaziland.
On 13 January 2010, London Mining converted both the loan and its net equity investment in DMC Coal into 28% of the issued share capital 
of DMC, on a fully diluted basis.
33. Composition of the Group 
      Ownership interest
   2009 2008 
 Country of incorporation Principal activity % %
Subsidiaries:
London Mining Company Limited Sierra Leone Mining 100 100
London Mining Logistics Company Ltd Sierra Leone Dormant 100 100
Anglo Mexican Mining Ltd British Virgin Islands Investment holding company 55 55
Compania Minera Suizo-Mexicana, SA de CV Ltd Mexico Mining 54 54
MIL Participacoes Societarias Ltda Brazil Administrative company 100 100
Rannerdale Limited Isle of Man Investment holding company 100 100
Torbanite One Limited Isle of Man Investment holding company 100 100
London Mining Greenland A/S Greenland Mining 100 100
Associates: 
DMC Coal Mining (Pty) Ltd South Africa Mining 39.3 3 9. 3
International Coal Company Ltd Cayman Islands Mining 20.0 20 .0
Joint ventures:
China Global Mining Resources (BVI) Limited British Virgin Islands Investment holding company 50 –
China Global Mining Resources Limited Hong Kong Investment holding company 50 –
Xiaonanshan Mining Co Limited  People’ s Republic of China Mining 50 –
Nanjing Sudan Mining Co Limited People’ s Republic of China Mining 50 –
Saudi London Iron Limited People’ s Republic of China Mining 50 –
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 77
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
      As at 31 December
       2009  2008 
      Note $’000 $’000
Non-current assets  
Intangible assets      1 20,300 13,204
Property, plant and equipment       332 534
Investment in subsidiaries       2 2,767 2,3 78
Investment in associates       2 5,081 5,25 5
Investment in joint ventures       2 3,756 –
Loans and receivables       3 51,827 –
Amounts owing by subsidiaries        91,569 49, 77 5
Total non-current assets       175,632 7 1 , 146
Current assets  
Current loans and receivables      3 3,911 2 ,430
Cash and cash equivalents       200,427 3 12,03 5
Total current assets       204,338 3 14 , 465
Total assets       379,970 385 ,61 1
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables      4 (18,254) (1 1, 471)
       (18,254) (1 1, 471)
Net current assets       186,084 302,994
Non-current liabilities  
Other non-current liabilities      4,5 (1,136) – 
       (1,136) –
Total liabilities       (19,390) (1 1, 471)
Total net assets       360,580 374, 1 40
Equity  
Share capital       398 398
Share premium account       20,094 1 9 ,954
Other reserves       16,966 1 5,902
Retained earnings       323,122 3 3 7, 886
Total equity       360,580 374, 1 40
The financial statements of London Mining Plc (Company Number 05424040) were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2010 
and are signed on their behalf by:
Graeme Hossie    Rachel Rhodes
Chief Executive Officer   Chief Financial Officer
Company Balance Sheet 78
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
    Share  Warrant Foreign  
   Share premium Retained and option exchange Total 
   capital account Earnings reserve
1
 reserve
2
 equity 
   $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Balance at 31 December 2007   362 101,093 (23,029) 1 1, 493 9 ,713 99 ,632
Exchange difference arising on change in functional currency  – – – – (9 ,216) (9 ,216)
Recognition of share-based payments   – – – 1 1,362 – 1 1,362
Issue of share capital (net of expenses)   36 24,977 2,586 (7 , 450) – 20, 1 49
Share premium extinguished in redemption of C shares   – (106, 1 16) – – – (106, 1 16)
Dividends paid on “B” shares   – – (237 ,820) – – (237 ,820)
Profit for the year   – – 596, 1 49 –  596, 1 49
Balance at 31 December 2008   398 19 ,954 337 ,886 15, 405 497 374, 1 40
Recognition of share-based payments   – – 4,255 1,064 – 5,319
Issue of share capital (net of expenses) on exercise of options  – 140 – – – 140
Loss for the year   – – (19,019) – – (19,019)
Balance at 31 December 2009   398 20,094 323,122 16,469 497 360,580
1 The warrant and option reserve includes warrants and options granted as equity settled employee benefits and warrants issued for cash.
2 The foreign exchange reserve movement in the year to 31 December 2008 includes exchange differences arising on change in functional currency of the Company.
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 79
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
      Year ended 31 December
       2009  2008 
      Note $’000 $’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash used by operations      6 (18,458) (20,705)
Interest received       967 8 , 74 7
Interest expense       (16) (7 ,648)
Net cash outflow from operating activities – continuing operations      (17,507) (19 ,606)
Cash flows from investing activities
Loans and investments in joint ventures       (38,727) –
Loans and investments in associates       (1,000) (5,355)
Other loans and investments       (5,750) (1,000)
Convertible loans issued to third parties       (5,000) –
Loans to subsidiaries       (32,565) (65, 187)
Acquisition of subsidiaries       – (320) 
Investments in subsidiaries       (52) –
Payments to acquire intangible assets       (10,784) (8,685)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment       (56) (365)
Proceeds from sale of discontinued operations, net of transaction costs     (541) 777 ,086
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities – continuing operations     (94,475) 696 , 17 4
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of Ordinary Shares, share options and warrants      140 19 ,280
Callable and Puttable Bonds 2007/2012 (defeased)       – (67 ,598)
Dividends paid on “B” shares       – (228, 489)
Redemption of “C” shares       – (101,952)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities – continuing operations     140 (378,759)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents       (111,842) 297 ,809
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year       312,035 85, 073
Exchange differences       234 (70,847)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year       200,427 3 12,03 5
Company Cash Flow Statement 80
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
1. Intangible assets
       Mineral 
       rights and 
       exploration 
       and evaluation 
      Software costs Total 
      $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost 
1 January 2008      – 4,932 4,932
Additions      – 8,685 8,685
Exchange differences      – (413) (413)
31 December 2008      – 13,204 13,204
Additions      106 14,616 14,722
Transfers to other assets      – (217) (217)
Transfers to amounts owing by subsidiaries       – (7,409) (7,409)
31 December 2009      106 20,194 20,300
2. Investments
     Investments in Investments in Investments in 
     Subsidiaries Associates  Joint venture 
     $’000 $’000 $’000
1 January 2008     45,83 1 402 –
Acquisition of International Coal Company Ltd     – 5,081 –
Acquisition of Anglo Mexican Mining Ltd     658 (402) –
Other     – 1 74 –
Disposal on sale of subsidiary     (41, 1 40) – –
Exchange differences     (2,971) – –
31 December 2008      2,378 5,255 –
Equity injected into subsidiary     389 – –
Equity portion of loan paid on acquisition of CGMR (BVI) Ltd    – – 3,756
Transfer to subsidiary     – (174) –
31 December 2009     2,767 5,081 3,756
3. Loans and receivables
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Non-current 
Loan from joint venture partner
1
       5,750 –
Receivable from joint venture       35,722 –
Management fee receivable from joint venture       4,355 –
Convertible loans receivable       6,000 –
Total non-current loans and receivables        51,827 –
Current 
Prepayments       343 123
Convertible loan receivable from Joint venture partner       1,000 1,000
Accrued interest receivable from Joint venture partner       342 –
Receivable from Joint venture       1,466 –
Other receivables       760 1,307
Total current loans and receivables       3,911 2 ,430
Total loans and receivables        55,738 2 ,430
1 The USD 35.7 million represents the loan receivable from CGMR BVI representing the original USD 34.9 million debt due, as noted above, accreted for the period to 31 December 
2009 for the timings of the anticipated cash inflows (included in non-current loans and receivables note 18). 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 81
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
4. Trade and other payables
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Current  
Trade and other payables       2,941 1, 5 7 1
Other taxation and social security       455 42
Accruals       14,858 9, 858
Total current trade and other payables       18,254 11 , 4 7 1
Non-Current  
Accruals       1,136 –
Total non-current trade and other payables       1,136 –
5. Borrowings
The movements in borrowings during the comparative period was as follows:
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Opening balance       – 66 ,4 7 4
Recognition of issue costs on Callable and Puttable Bonds 2007/2012      – 273
Callable and Puttable Bonds 2007/2012 legally defeased        – (67 ,598)
Net foreign currency exchange differences       – 851
Total borrowings       – –
6. Notes to the cash flow statement
       2009 2008 
       $’000 $’000
Reconciliation of (loss)/profit for the year to cash outflows from operating activities
(Loss)/profit for the year       (19,019) 5 96 , 149
Adjusted for:
Profit for the year – discontinued operations       – (674,593)
Depreciation       144 17 1
Finance income       (4,449) (28,85 1)
Finance costs       1,841 73 , 791
Share-based payments expense       4,982 1 0 ,700
       (16,501) (22,633)
Increase in non-current receivables       (4,355) –
Increase in current receivables       (924) (704)
Increase in payables       3,322 2,63 2
Cash outflow from operating activities       (18,458) (20,705) 82
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Country of registration of parent company England and Wales
Legal form  Public limited company
Directors  Graeme Hossie
 Rachel Rhodes 
 Chris Brown (resigned 9 February 2009)
 Dr Colin Knight
 Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Bt DL
 Malcolm Groat
 Dr Hans Kristian Schønwandt
Company secretary  Rohit Bhoothalingam
Auditors  Deloitte LLP
 2 New Street Square
 London
 EC4A 3BZ
Registered office  39 Sloane Street
 London
 SW1X 9LP
Registration number  05424040
Lawyers Travers Smith LLP
 10 Snow Hill
 London
 EC1A 2AL
Corporate Brokers Liberum Capital Limited
 City Point
 10th Floor
 One Ropemaker Street
 London
 EC2Y 9HT
Officers and Professional Advisors 83
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Notes 84
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes London Mining is focussed on identifying, 
developing and operating scaleable mines to 
become a mid-tier supplier to the global steel 
industry. Its four principal iron ore assets in 
Sierra Leone, Saudi Arabia, Greenland and 
China all have deliverable production with 
potential for expansion. The Company listed 
on the Oslo Axess on 9 October 2007 and 
on London AIM on 6 November 2009 .
Overview 
 
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
03 Chief Executive’s Statement
Business Review
06 Our Strategy
08 Company Assets at a Glance
10 Our Markets
12 Our People
14 Operations: Sierra Leone
16 Operations: Saudi Arabia
18 Operations: Greenland
20 Operations: China
21 Operations: Other assets
22 Financial Review
26 Principal risks and uncertainties
28 Corporate Social Responsibility
Corporate 
Governance
30 Board of Directors
32 Senior Management
34 Directors’ Report
36 Corporate Governance Statement
39 Directors’ Remuneration Report
43 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
44  Independent Auditors’ Report
Financial 
Statements
45 Consolidated Income Statement
46 Consolidated Balance Sheet
47  Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity
48 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
49  Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
77 Company Balance Sheet
78  Company Statement of Changes 
in Equity
79 Company Cash Flow Statement
80  Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements
82 Officers and Professional Advisors Annual Report 2009
www.londonmining.co.uk
London Mining Plc
39 Sloane Street
London
United Kingdom SW1X 9LP 
Phone: +44 (0) 20 7201 5000
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7201 5050
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Developing Mines to Supply the Global Steel Industry
