 www.lonmin.com
Annual Report and Accounts
For the year ended 30 September 2009
Lonmin Plc
Registered in England, Company Number 103002
Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
Lonmin Plc
Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009
Preparing
for recovery… 01 Lonmin at a Glance
02 2009 Features
04 Chairman’s Letter
06 Chief Executive’s Review
10 Operational Review
16 Reserves and Resources
18 Financial Review
26 Internal Controls and Risk Management
30 Key Performance Indicators
32 Sustainable Development Review
52 Board of Directors
54 Executive Committee
55 Directors’ Report – Governance
72 Remuneration Committee Report
90 Independent Auditors’ Report
91 Responsibility Statement of the Directors
in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts
92 Consolidated Financial Statements
95 Notes to the Accounts
130 Company Accounts and Notes
137 Consolidated Group Five Year Financial Record
138 Operating Statistics
140 Shareholder Information
141 Corporate Information
142 Financial Calendar for 2010
143 Lonmin Charter 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 01
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
LONMIN IS THE WORLD’S THIRD LARGEST PRIMARY
PRODUCER OF PLATINUM GROUP METALS.
Lonmin at a Glance
• World’s 3rd largest primary producer of Platinum and
Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) and one of only three such
mine-to-market PGM producers
• Marikana – key operating asset with 12 shafts and inclines,
supported by concentrating, smelting and refining capability
• Total attributable resources of 178 million PGM ounces,
including total attributable reserves of 45 million PGM ounces
• Around 22,000 full time employees as at 30 September 2009
• Listed on the London and Johannesburg Stock Exchanges 02
2009 Features
• Safety performance continues to improve – Lost Time Injuries fell 8%
• Platinum sales of 682,955 ounces, PGM sales of 1,268,918 ounces
• Metal in concentrate production of 663,101 ounces of Platinum and 1,249,214
ounces of total PGMs
• Revenue of $1.1 billion
• Rand gross operating costs of R8.8 billion – lower than market guidance
• Underlying Loss Before Interest and Tax of $(93) million
• Underlying loss per share of (59.2) cents
• Successful completion of $458 million Rights Issue
• Net debt reduced by $190 million to $113 million
Platinum sales
0
05 06 07 08 09
1,000
800
400
200
600
910
940
794
727
683
Ounces (000’s)
Financial year
0
05 06 07
1,000
800
400
200
600
362
830
796
963
(93)
09 08
$m
Financial year
Underlying EBIT
i
Revenue
0
05 06 07 08 09
2,300
1,840
920
460
1,380
1,128
1,855
1,941
2,231
1,062
$m
Financial year
0
05 06 07 08 09
20
16
8
4
12
18.10
12.50
10.80
6.27 6.21
Per million hours worked
Financial year
LTIFR
ii
i Underlying EBIT is calculated on profit for the period excluding special items, as noted on page 92 of this Report
ii Lost time injury frequency rate, as measured per million hours worked, is a key safety performance indicator 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 03
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
2009 SAW SIGNIFICANT STEPS IN ACHIEVING OUR OBJECTIVE OF
RESTORING LONMIN’S OPERATIONAL HEALTH. FULLY ACHIEVING
THIS OBJECTIVE WILL ENSURE WE ARE WELL POSITIONED TO
DELIVER FUTURE GROWTH.
Preparing for recovery
Management actions taken in 2009:
• Non-value adding ounces eliminated;
• Major cost restructuring programme completed;
• Improvements to the operational health of the business;
• Balance Sheet strengthened; and
• Operational headquarters and executive management team to be relocated to South Africa.
Key focus areas in 2010 and beyond:
• Completing the restoration of Lonmin’s operational health;
• Delivering safe organic growth;
• Ensuring balance between capital investment requirements and the need to maintain
a strong balance sheet; and
• Improving our position on the cost curve.
“THE DIRECTION OF TRAVEL IS POSITIVE
– LONMIN IS WELL POSITIONED FOR THE
MARKET RECOVERY” 04
Chairman’s Letter
Dear Shareholders,
Overview of the year
My first year as Chairman of Lonmin Plc has been an
eventful and challenging one. The business has operated
in an extremely difficult pricing and currency environment
with the average US Dollar basket price per PGM ounce
sold some 49% lower than last year. As a result, our
revenues declined dramatically by over 50% or $1.2 billion.
The first signs that this revenue collapse was a
possibility occurred very early in the year and management
took immediate decisive action through the closure of
unprofitable operations, the reduction of costs and the
restriction of capital expenditure. This was followed by
the strengthening of our funding position and then our
balance sheet to position us to weather the storm.
Overall, under Ian Farmer’s leadership, the
management team has made good progress in the drive
to restore the operational health of the business. The
strong focus on operational stability and discipline has
brought increased rigour to the setting of targets and the
monitoring of performances against them. It is pleasing
to report that in the 2009 financial year we were largely
successful in delivering against our key targets:
• Marikana platinum sales: were only 2% below our
target set at the start of the year;
• Costs: Rand gross operating costs were lower than
our original guidance as well as our updated and
more challenging guidance set in May 2009, and
crucially were lower than in the previous financial year;
• Restructuring: we achieved $64 million of cost
savings in the second half of 2009 as a result of the
restructuring programme, ahead of our initial
annualised target of $90 million;
• Productivity and production: by the end of the year
at our Mining business, Hossy and Saffy had both
achieved their published productivity and production
targets and we made good progress in restoring ore
reserve development. At our Process Division,
monthly recoveries improved materially; and
• Balance sheet: capital expenditure for 2009 and year
end net debt were both within market guidance.
While so much has been achieved in a short time, it
was disappointing that difficulties were again experienced
with the Number One furnace, which was taken out of
operation for a period towards the end of the financial
year and subsequently operated at reduced capacity.
There is much to be done before the operational
health of Lonmin is fully restored. This must however be
achieved in conjunction with an increase in safe
production and an improvement in our position on the
cost curve. All efforts will be directed towards these
achievements in 2010 and beyond in order to position
Lonmin to maximise benefit as the market recovers.
Rights Issue
A successful $458 million Rights Issue was completed
in June 2009. As a result, Lonmin now enjoys greater
financial headroom, with enhanced balance sheet
flexibility and an improved ability to withstand potential
adverse movements in the PGM pricing environment
and / or the Rand / US dollar exchange rate. We are
grateful to our shareholders for their over-whelming
support for this fund raising.
Lonmin in the South African landscape
Our ability to operate effectively as an investor in South
Africa is a function of our behaviour as a responsible
corporate citizen. Lonmin embraces the tenets of the
Mining Charter and seeks in its actions to advance the
transformation agenda prescribed by the South African
government. In this context it is however inescapable that
the economic realities imposed by metal pricing, currency
exchange rates and general financial conditions – none
of which the Company can control – can have profound
effects on the rate at which mutual aspirations can
be realised.
Relations with our employees are of paramount
importance, and we put on record our appreciation of
the constructive behaviour of our employees, the trade
unions, and indeed government, in the extensive and
painful restructuring exercise conducted in the early
months of the year. Constructive engagement also forms
the basis of our current wage negotiations: industry
settlements to date have been in excess of inflation
despite the harsh revenue environment and lack of
profitability. The long term health of the industry generally,
and Lonmin in particular, depends on an appropriate
balance being reached between increased wage awards,
productivity improvements and the imperative of
profitability to enable the business to invest for growth
and earn appropriate shareholder returns.
Lonmin believes that it can, and should, operate as a
zero-harm business and strives in every way to improve
continuously its safety performance, acknowledging that
its business is inherently hazardous. It is a matter of the
deepest regret that three employees lost their lives during
the year and I would like to convey our sincerest
condolences to their families. The very considerable
improvement in our safety performance achieved over
recent years slowed slightly in 2009, partly due to the
disruption to operations caused by the extensive
restructuring exercise, which reduced employment levels
by some 20%.
We support fully the attention paid by the Department
of Mineral Resources to enforcing improvement in the
design and application of safety standards in the industry.
Our operations have been much affected during the year
by this increased attention, and production stoppages as
a result of Section 54 safety notifications caused the loss
of some 30,000 Platinum ounces, or 5% of underground
production, in 2009. This is a high economic cost
specifically to the Company but no less to the nation,
due to the reduction in foreign exchange and tax receipts.
There is an argument for the Department of Mineral
Resources to sponsor and lead a co-operative process
with PGM producers and organised labour to agree
procedures to achieve a consistent application of
monitoring measures and remedies, without jeopardising
the pursuit of improved safety and reasonable economic
returns.
As it currently stands, Lonmin is a UK-domiciled
company with the vast majority of its operating assets in
South Africa. Your Board has therefore concluded that
the location of executive management should reflect this
reality and accordingly has taken the decision to relocate
our operational headquarters and executive management
team from London to Johannesburg. We believe that this
will enhance day to day management and communications,
and performance improvements will flow from greater
efficiencies. The decision reflects our commitment to
South Africa and our willingness to continue to play
a full part in the national transformation process.
The Board’s key functions of management oversight,
strategic direction, decision making and corporate
governance will remain in London, where the majority of
Lonmin’s shareholders are located. Lonmin greatly values
its UK domicile and primary listing in London and will
continue to maintain a Board with the blend of
backgrounds, skills and experience required to provide
effective leadership appropriate for a FTSE100 company. www.lonmin.com 05
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Sivi’s insights to the political and social dimensions of our
South African business have been invaluable.
The Company’s Chief Financial Officer, Alan Ferguson,
has confirmed that he will not relocate to South Africa as
part of the relocation of our operational headquarters and
will therefore relinquish his position and resign from the
Board at a future date. Alan has committed to remain in
his present role and continue as a Board Director until
31 December 2010 at the earliest. We have commenced
a recruitment process for Alan’s successor, who will be
based in South Africa.
Outlook
PGM markets are likely to improve gradually in 2010,
supported by a slow steady recovery in the automotive
and industrial sectors. During that year, we anticipate that
Marikana mined production will grow, enabling us to
achieve sales of around 700,000 Platinum ounces.
In 2011, we expect to see the start of a more
significant upturn in PGM market demand, supported by
increased momentum in the automotive and industrial
sectors, with a more pronounced rebound in the following
year. In those years, we anticipate that our production will
increase steadily through the delivery of profitable ounces
so that, by 2013, we expect to produce sustainably
around 850,000 ounces of Platinum per annum from
Marikana, including the Pandora joint venture. This
anticipated production growth, and supporting capital
investment, is subject to market conditions.
Current stresses notwithstanding, we have the utmost
confidence in the long term quality of Lonmin’s asset
base and the robust long term fundamentals of PGM
markets. Looking further ahead, our Akanani and
Limpopo properties will provide us with the optionality to
supplement our short to medium growth from Marikana.
Dividend
Despite our confidence in the future and the measures
being taken by management to improve the health of the
business, our profitability and cash flows remain under
pressure. Consequently, given our continuing focus on
cash conservation and balance sheet management, the
Board continues to take a conservative but appropriate
stance towards the distribution of dividends. The Board
has therefore taken the decision not to declare a final
dividend for the 2009 financial year. This follows the
Board’s decision to pass the final dividend for the 2008
financial year and the interim dividend for the 2009
financial year.
The Board will keep the matter of dividend
distributions under constant review and will resume
payments as soon as conditions allow. Our policy
remains that dividend distributions will be based on the
reported earnings for the year, but take into account the
projected cash requirements of the business.
Employees
Finally, I would like to thank all Lonmin employees for
their commitment and dedication, without which the
important changes achieved during the year would not
have been possible.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
13 November 2009
Incwala Resources
During the year, discussions commenced regarding the
future of Incwala Resources (Pty) Ltd, (Incwala), our Black
Economic Empowerment partner. These discussions are
on-going and involve Lonmin, the Historically Disadvantaged
South African (HDSA) shareholders of Incwala and the
HDSAs’ providers of finance. We will update the market
on these discussions, once they have been fully
concluded. In pursuing these discussions, our objective is
to ensure that Lonmin has a relationship of mutual trust
with its partner and that its partner has both leadership
capacity and financial independence without further
recourse to Lonmin’s balance sheet.
Board Changes
At our 2009 AGM on 29 January 2009, Sir John Craven
retired as a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the
Board. John was Chairman for some twelve years and
we are extremely grateful to him for his ingenuity, strong
leadership and wise counsel which contributed so much
to the transformation of Lonmin from a highly-leveraged
diverse conglomerate into the third largest Platinum
producer in the world. As a measure of this, it is
noteworthy that despite the market upsets at the beginning
of the year, the market capitalisation of Lonmin when he
retired was some ten times greater than when he first
joined the Board.
We also bid a grateful farewell to Peter Godsoe who,
after nine years on the Board, has decided not to seek
re-election as a director. Lonmin has benefited
handsomely from Peter’s knowledge, experience and
ability to identify the keystone of an issue and the logic
of its resolution.
On 4 June 2009, the Board appointed Jonathan
Leslie as a Non-executive director. Jonathan has many
years’ experience of the mining industry at both
operational and executive levels, as well as a strong
knowledge of the business landscape in South Africa.
On 16 October 2009, we announced that Dr Sivi
Gounden had resigned as a Non-executive director, in light
of the significant time commitments associated with his
other business interests. We are extremely grateful to Sivi
for his contribution to the Company over the last four years.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
“We have the utmost conﬁdence in the long term quality of
Lonmin’s asset base and the robust long term fundamentals
of PGM markets.”
Roger Phillimore 06
Chief Executive’s Review
Dear Shareholders,
Introduction
Lonmin produced a satisfactory performance in 2009,
despite some significant challenges and the completion
of a major restructuring programme during the year.
Production at our core Marikana underground operations
was in line with 2008 levels and we achieved our revised
2009 sales guidance by selling 682,955 ounces of
Platinum.
Whilst there is still some way to go before we achieve
our goal of fully restoring the operational health of the
business, 2009 saw significant steps in achieving this
objective, enabling us to provide guidance for 2010 sales
of 700,000 Platinum ounces, implying a slight increase
from 2009. Whilst the increment is only modest, it is a
significant turning point. Importantly, improving the
operational health of the business will also ensure that we
are well positioned to capitalise on the investments we
have made over recent years as we look to deliver further
growth into the robust market fundamentals we foresee
in 2011 and beyond.
1. Significant management actions taken:
At the end of 2008, we reacted swiftly to the global
economic downturn, taking a number of significant
actions.
Non-value adding production eliminated
Firstly, we took an immediate decision to eliminate
non-value adding production. We placed our
uneconomic Baobab shaft at Limpopo on to care
and maintenance for the foreseeable future. We also
closed our opencast operations at Marikana, as well
as rationalising certain areas of high cost production
at the underground operations there. In total, these
actions have removed around 75,000 Platinum
ounces from the market place.
Major cost restructuring programme completed
Alongside that exercise, we completed a major
restructuring programme across our operations, with
all personnel levels affected and around 20% of our
total workforce leaving the business during the year.
This was a significant, but essential, exercise as we
right sized the organisation and reduced costs.
Understandably the restructuring programme
impacted employee morale and caused some
disruption to production for a large part of the year.
Balance sheet strengthened
We negotiated with our lending banks the re-financing
of a significant portion of our debt facilities during the
year, with the tenure of these facilities being extended
beyond short term horizons. In addition, we then
successfully strengthened our balance sheet by
raising $458 million through the completion of a
Rights Issue in June. Furthermore, we successfully
negotiated the waiving of all EBITDA covenants
relating to our debt facilities until September 2010.
Operational headquarters and executive management
team relocated
In October 2009, we announced plans to relocate
our operational headquarters from London to
Johannesburg. This will place executive management
in a single location close to our operations and will
therefore enhance day-to-day management and
communications. It will also enable us to engage
more effectively with our South African stakeholders.
2. Industry-wide supply challenges:
The significant factors currently impacting the South
African PGM industry are likely to continue into 2010.
PGM industry continues to be cash constrained
South African mining inflation remains relatively high,
putting pressure on industry margins and capital
investment. Recent improvements in US dollar-based
PGM pricing have been largely offset by South
African Rand strength, which has resulted in capital
shortages and new projects being delayed. Cash flow
management remains a high priority in the industry.
Labour environment remains challenging
The labour environment continues to be a significant
influence on the performance of producers, from both
a productivity and cost perspective. Industry wage
settlements for 2010 have once again been above
inflation. Lonmin’s negotiations take place late in the
year and, at the time of writing this report, we remain
in discussions with our recognised unions on this
matter. Furthermore, the shortage of key skills
remains an issue for the mining industry in general.
With these challenges in mind, Lonmin recognises
the importance of employee engagement strategies.
Section 54 safety stoppages increasing in frequency
We support the Department of Mineral Resources’
increased focus on safety. This focus was evidenced
in 2009 by an increase in prevalence and severity
of Section 54 safety stoppages throughout the
industry. Lonmin lost over half a million tonnes of
ore production as a result of these stoppages during
the 2009 financial year, representing some 30,000
Platinum ounces or 5% of total underground
production. These stoppages are likely to continue
in 2010 and beyond. Our challenge is to improve on
our industry-leading safety record in order to reduce
the impact of these stoppages on our operational
and financial performance.
Producers who are able to deliver the strongest
safety performances should benefit from fewer
interruptions and higher productivity. Our safety
performance remains strong and improved slightly
in 2009. However, it was with regret that we reported
the death of three of our employees during the year.
Increasingly difficult and more complex geology
The Bushveld Complex is a mature geological
environment and mines in the area will continue
to deepen over time, with many of the easier to
access reserves becoming steadily depleted. This
is expected to have a consequent impact on industry
costs, grades and recoveries in the future. Lonmin
is in the fortunate position of having access to
relatively shallow reserves and resources.
Outlook for supply and cost of electricity remains
uncertain
Challenges in the supply and cost of electricity in
South Africa remain. Electricity pricing tariffs are
expected to increase by over 45% in 2010 and
there will be similar power price increases in the
subsequent years. In addition, there is a possibility
that security of supply could again come under
pressure in the medium term, adding to the supply
side challenges outlined above. www.lonmin.com 07
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
4. Key Focus Areas for 2010 & beyond:
Lonmin needs to be well prepared for the opportunity
presented by the prospect of an improvement in the
market environment. As such, our focus in 2010
and beyond is on completing the restoration of the
operational health of the business, growing our unit
throughput and, through this, improving our position
on the cost curve.
a) Restoring operational health:
In the Mining business, we have implemented
several productivity improvement initiatives and
cost-control programmes, as well as increasing
our focus on employee relations. We reorganised
our senior operational management team to
ensure a greater emphasis on long term
operational health, with a specific focus on long
term planning. Our Process Division benefited
from stability throughout the value chain, assisted
by our increased investment in plant maintenance.
I am confident that we now have a strong
management team in place across the business,
supported by improving morale within the
business.
Further details on these initiatives can be
found in the Operational Review.
b) Delivering organic growth:
We expect to deliver several years of steady
growth from our core Marikana operations
through production from our three new shafts,
Saffy, Hossy and K4. The majority of the capital
needed to initiate and ramp-up production at
these shafts has already been invested. Capital
expenditure is now predominantly focused on ore
body development to support the production
ramp-up of these shafts.
Short to medium term growth in mined production –
from Saffy, Hossy and K4
At Saffy shaft, we made good progress during the
year in converting our mining method from fully
mechanised to hybrid mining. There is still some work
to be done before this process is completed, but we
achieved our target of 80,000 tonnes per month, up
from 45,000 tonnes at the end of the 2008 financial
year. In 2010, we expect Saffy to continue to ramp-up
towards its production capacity of 200,000 tonnes
per month. More details on the progress being made
at Saffy can be found in a case study on page 11 of
this report.
A year ago, we took the decision to continue to
run Hossy shaft on a fully mechanised basis. At that
time, we set a productivity target for Hossy for the
end of the 2009 financial year of an average of 1,500
square metres per month per suite of equipment. I
am delighted to say that this target was achieved in
September 2009, with the best performing suites at
Hossy reaching productivity of around 1,800 square
metres per suite per month during that month.
Furthermore, the shaft achieved monthly production
of over 60,000 tonnes at that time, from 20,000
tonnes per month in September 2008. Whilst this
performance does not yet make production costs
competitive with conventional mining methods, it is
encouraging to see what can be done once the
appropriate degree of focus is applied. Consequently,
we have taken the decision to continue with a fully
mechanised mining method at Hossy for the
foreseeable future and we are now targeting to reach
2,200 square metres per suite of equipment per
month by September 2011.
3. The possibility of a positive surprise in the PGM
pricing:
The Rand PGM basket price throughout 2009
continued to squeeze industry profitability and cash
flow, restricting capital investment. If this continues,
further short term under-investment will be the natural
consequence. We therefore anticipate that supply
will struggle to keep up with recovering demand from
2010 onwards and, as demand returns, there should
be a recovery in PGM profit margins.
Short to medium term outlook for Platinum demand
Looking at Platinum specifically over the next few
years, we expect demand to improve gradually
in 2010. This will be supported by a steady recovery
in the automotive and industrial sectors with the
market being in balance for the year. The behaviour
of investors in the Exchange-Traded Funds will
continue to influence short term price movements.
In early to mid 2011, we expect to see the start of
a more significant upturn in demand, supported
by increasing momentum in the automotive and
industrial sectors followed by a more pronounced
market rebound, with the market moving back
into deficit.
Long term outlook for Platinum and PGM demand
In the longer term, the future of PGM market
fundamentals remains strong, primarily as a result
of the unique characteristics of PGMs and their
applications in autocatalysts. This is underpinned
by the various emissions legislation being introduced
in the coming years to combat global climate change.
In addition, PGMs are expected to be critical in the
application of fuel cell technology, which continues
to advance in a number of sectors, including a
growing number of commercial applications for
stationary fuel cells. The Platinum market, in
particular, is also expected to be supported by
continuing demand from the Asian jewellery market.
As a result of these factors, we firmly believe that the
Platinum and other Platinum group metal markets
continue to be structurally compelling over time.
Ian Farmer
Chief Executive Officer
“Lonmin will be well placed to capitalise on the investment made
in recent years as we deliver growth into the robust market
fundamentals we foresee in 2011 and beyond.”
Ian Farmer 08
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
The development of K4 remains on track and we
anticipate initial production will take place in the first
half of the 2012 financial year, although development
ounces will be produced in 2011. By the time K4
ramps up to full production of around 225,000 tonnes
per month, we expect these three shafts will be
contributing over 50% of our total underground
production at Marikana.
This organic growth from our Mining business
will be supplemented by a number of projects at our
Marikana property, from which we expect to deliver
further value. This includes the extraction of chrome
from our mined production and the re-treatment of
tailings following the processing of this chrome.
Medium term requirement to increase smelting
capacity and reduce risk
It is crucial that the growth in mined production
is supported by processing capacity and reliability,
particularly at our smelting facility.
From a reliability perspective, we experienced
a matte run-out at the Number One furnace in June
2009, following which we acted quickly to mitigate
the impact on production. Our knowledge of the
workings of the furnace has improved as a result of
the incident and we have a highly competent team
running it. Smelting will always be a high risk aspect
of our industry, however, we are confident that we will
be able to improve further our management of this
unit in the future and therefore improve the vessel’s
reliability.
From a capacity perspective, our Number One
and Pyromet furnaces have the requisite capacity
to support current and medium term levels of
production. However, taking into account our longer
term growth ambitions, and the need to mitigate the
risk of Smelter disruptions, we anticipate a
requirement for increased Smelter capacity in the
coming years. We have therefore started to
investigate options for additional backup capacity.
c) Improving our position on the cost curve
The focus on restoring the operational health of
the business and delivering organic growth is
critical to improving our position on the industry
cost curve.
Actions taken to support this included the
completion of a major restructuring programme
at our operations, through which we anticipated
$90 million of annualised cost savings. During
the second half of 2009 we estimate that we
actually saved $64 million and so we are well
on our way to beating this target. This helped
us to report Rand gross operating costs below
our initial, as well as our revised and more
challenging, cost guidance target communicated
during the year.
In addition we have implemented a number of
productivity improvement programmes and cost-
cutting initiatives across the business to ensure
that our position on the cost curve continues to
move in the right direction. Details on these
initiatives are outlined in the Operational Review.
The continued inflationary environment in
South Africa, including an anticipated increase
in real wages for the majority of our workforce,
means that strict cost control allied to growth in
productivity is paramount next year. In 2010, we
are targeting to manage the increase in South
African Rand gross operating costs to be below
local inflation.
5. Outlook
Our Marikana operations remain at the heart of the
Lonmin business and our focus remains on improving
safety, reducing costs and growing production,
through delivery of profitable ounces, from what is
a high quality, sizeable ore body. In this regard it is
pleasing to see a reported 20% increase in our
resource base at Marikana, more detail on which can
be found on pages 16 and 17 of this Report.
We anticipate Marikana mined production will
increase in 2010, more than offsetting the reduction
in opencast tonnes and ounces from Pandora, as these
pits are now closed. This should allow metals in
concentrate production to increase by around 5% and,
as a result, we expect to achieve 2010 sales of around
700,000 Platinum ounces, slightly ahead of 2009.
To support this growth, we anticipate that capital
expenditure for the 2010 financial year will be up to
$270 million. This will predominantly be focused on
Saffy and Hossy, as well as on declines in our two
largest conventional shafts and the continued
development of K4. We will of course continue to
maintain a balance between the investment
requirements of the business and the imperative of
maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Beyond 2010, the ramp-up of the three newer
shafts will more than offset the decline in production
from some of our smaller shallower shafts which are
expected to come to the end of their lives over the
next few years. As a result, we expect to steadily
grow metal in concentrate production from our
Marikana operations and the Pandora joint venture
so that by 2013 we expect to deliver sustained,
profitable production of around 850,000 ounces of
Platinum per annum. This will be supported by capital
expenditure of between $300 million and $350 million
per annum from 2011. This anticipated production
growth and capital investment is of course subject to
market conditions, and our planning in this regard will
be regularly reviewed by management, as market
circumstances unfold.
Our growth projects at Akanani and Limpopo give
us longer term growth optionality to supplement the
short to medium term growth to be delivered from our
core operations at Marikana.
Achieving this growth, supported by the
restoration of the operational health of the business,
is a significant challenge but one which will restore
the market’s view of Lonmin as the quality asset in
the sector. In January we will commence the process
of consolidating the executive team in Johannesburg,
thereby enhancing day-to-day management and
communication within the business.
Employees’ contribution
We cannot achieve our short term and long term goals
without the support of our employees, contractors and
community members. 2009 has been a very challenging
year especially given the disruptive impact of the
restructuring programme. I would like to thank everybody
for their contribution, support, and hard work during
the year.
Ian Farmer
Chief Executive Officer
13 November 2009 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 09
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Hendrik Swanepoel
Mine Overseer, 1B Shaft
At 1B Shaft, which produced around
325,000 tonnes in the 2009 financial year,
we have maintained our strong safety record
through disciplined planning of the mining
cycle of drilling, bolting, blasting and
cleaning. This is supported by regular, open
communication between shaft management
and crew members – at the start of each shift,
we have a “changeover” meeting between day
and night shift management teams, followed
by a meeting with each crew, which includes
a discussion of relevant safety issues. We also
maintain a high quality of mining, through
consistent cleaning and generally good house-
keeping underground, which helps our crew
members to remain well prepared and focussed
on the task in hand. As a consequence of all
these factors, our 14 man crews are settled,
stable and extremely well organised, and each
crew member is acutely aware of their role
and daily responsibilities. This guarantees the
close-knit teamwork necessary to maintain a
controlled, organised and, ultimately, safe
mining environment.
“SAFE MINING PRACTICES ARE INGRAINED
IN LONMIN’S CULTURE”
Hendrik Swanepoel
Case Study: 1B Shaft
– By September 2009, no Lost Time Injuries for over two years 10
Operational Review
A PRIMARY AREA OF FOCUS FOR THE MINING MANAGEMENT TEAM
CONTINUES TO BE ORE RESERVE DEVELOPMENT. BY THE END OF
SEPTEMBER 2009, UNDERGROUND ORE RESERVE DEVELOPMENT AT
MARIKANA HAD INCREASED TO 2.0 MILLION SQUARE METRES OF
IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE ORE RESERVES.
Market overview
PGM prices declined significantly during the first three
months of our 2009 financial year, with Platinum
falling to a low of $756 per ounce in October 2008
and Rhodium declining to a low of $1,000 per ounce
the following month. The steep decline in these
prices was almost entirely as a result of a dramatic
deterioration in automotive demand during the period,
exacerbated by automotive companies de-stocking,
the selling of inventories and investor reaction to the
economic downturn.
PGM prices started to improve in the second
quarter of the year, stabilizing in the following quarter,
on the back of strong jewellery and investment
demand. Tentative signs of automotive recovery
became evident during the fourth quarter of the 2009
financial year, supported by the potentially short term
impact of the various fiscal stimulus and scrappage
schemes introduced by governments around the
world. Consequently, further pricing recovery
occurred in that period, with the Platinum price
closing at $1,280 per ounce and Rhodium closing
at $1,650 per ounce on 30 September 2009.
However, the strength of the South African Rand
largely offset these improvements in US dollar-based
PGM prices, and continued to put pressure on
industry margins and cash flows. Furthermore, the
South African cost environment remains challenging,
with continued inflation across the mining sector.
Consequently Lonmin management will carefully
balance the need to invest in growth ahead of the
upturn whilst at the same time remaining focused on
maintaining strong financial discipline.
Mining
Our focus on safety remains undiminished. Our safety
performance continued to improve in 2009, with
actual Lost Time Injuries reported down 8% from
2008 and our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate
improving slightly to 6.21 per million man hours
worked. However, it is with regret that we report the
death of three of our employees during 2009. Further
details on our safety performance during the year as
well as information on the programmes currently in
place to maintain and improve on our historically
strong safety performance can be found in the
Sustainable Development Review of this Report.
Total tonnes mined during the 2009 financial year
were 10.8 million, a 1.6 million decline from 2008.
All of this reduction related to our decision to close
production units which were unprofitable. Of the
production shortfall, 1.2 million tonnes related to the
closure of opencast operations at Marikana and
Pandora whilst 0.4 million tonnes were due to placing of
the Baobab shaft at Limpopo on care and maintenance
during the first half of the 2009 financial year.
During the year, we took the opportunity to
restructure our senior operational management team,
in order to create a Technical Services function. This
function is responsible for, amongst other things, the
life of mine plan, based on input from all areas of the
business, group wide capital expenditure and
providing an important check and balance with regard
to the technical health of the business. Chris
Sheppard, previously EVP Mining, has taken on the
role of EVP Technical Services, and Mark Munroe,
who played a crucial role in the implementation of the
restructuring programme, has been appointed EVP
Mining. Mark is now responsible for safely delivering
growth in production and the necessary productivity
improvements from our Marikana mining operations.
Biographical details on Chris and Mark, as well as on
the other members of our Executive Committee, can
be found on page 54 of this report.
A primary area of focus for the Mining
management team continues to be ore reserve
development, building on the recent progress made
at Marikana. At the end of September 2009,
underground ore reserve development at Marikana
reached 2.0 million square metres of immediately
available ore reserves. Most of our shafts at Marikana
now have appropriate levels of development, but there
remains scope for improvement at certain shafts,
particularly K3. It is likely to take another twelve to
eighteen months before we achieve acceptable levels
of available ore reserves, as higher extraction rates
will require even greater levels of development
replacement.
A number of productivity programmes were
instigated by the Mining management team in 2009
which are expected to start to show benefits in 2010.
These include:
• Initial steps to revise incentive programmes for
our productive employees to increase the element
of variable pay;
• Labour management improvement programmes,
including a number of projects to tackle
absenteeism; 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 11
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
“IN 2010 WE EXPECT SAFFY TO CONTINUE
TO RAMP-UP TOWARDS PRODUCTION CAPACITY”
Johan Raaths
Case Study: Saffy Shaft
– production target of 80,000 tonnes per month by September 2009 achieved
Johan Raaths
Mine Overseer, Saffy Shaft
A year ago, management took the decision
to change the mining method at Saffy
from fully mechanised to hybrid mining,
which entails conventional stoping with
mechanised development. This conversion
process has come with some challenges.
Firstly, the shaft’s development footprint
was specifically designed for mechanised
mining. We are rectifying this by upgrading
the infrastructure of the shaft, including
the installation of ore passes and drop
raises. The mining layout was also
designed for mechanised mining, so we are
re-aligning it to better suit conventional
mining methods. Finally, we have faced
challenges in the recruitment and training
of skilled crews to adapt to the change in
mining method. We have built team-work
and trust within these new crews, thereby
ensuring that Saffy’s workforce remains
stable and maintains the shaft’s strong
safety culture, and we are proud to have
achieved our year end production target of
80,000 tonnes per month.
Nicci Engelbrecht
Technical Assistant, Saffy Shaft 12
Operational Review (continued)
Ali Mogale
Engineering Manager, Merensky
& UG2 Concentrators
We have two key performance improvement objectives at
the Concentrators – firstly, to increase our understanding
of the potential of ore being supplied to us by the mines
and, secondly, to consistently optimise recoveries. The
first objective is crucial in supporting the second objective.
This year at the Merensky Concentrator we made good
progress to achieving these dual objectives, partly through
the facilitation of Mission-Directed Work Teams within
each area of operation. A better understanding of the ore
potential is being driven by our metallurgical team at the
plant to improve management of ore delivery schedules
and ultimately to ensure we continue to create the
appropriate blend feed for the Smelter. However, the
achievement of this objective is dependent on plant
availability and stability, as well as increased spend on
plant maintenance. In 2009, the engineering team at the
plant achieved sustained high plant availability, based on
consistent equipment reliability and high maintenance
standards. Also at the plant, our production team
introduced a number of initiatives during the year to
optimise recoveries, including modifying the flow sheet,
rationalising the concentrate cleaning process and altering
the reagent mix at the flotation stage. As a result of these
initiatives, the plant achieved consistently high
underground recoveries during 2009.
Case Study: Merensky Concentrator
– achieved 97% plant availability in 2009
“WE REMAIN FOCUSED ON ANALYSING ORE POTENTIAL AND
OPTIMISING RECOVERIES AT OUR CONCENTRATORS”
Ali Mogale 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 13
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
At the end of the 2009 financial year, there were 31
stoping crews at Saffy and, by April 2010, we expect
to have 45 crews operating at the shaft. As a result,
we expect production to continue growing towards
shaft capacity of around 200,000 tonnes per month,
which we aim to achieve in 2014. By that time, we
anticipate Saffy’s current workforce complement of
around 2,300 will have increased to approximately
4,000. Further details on the transition to hybrid
mining at Saffy shaft can be found in a case study
on the shaft on page 11.
Hossy also had a good year, achieving average
productivity of around 1,500 centares per month per
suite of equipment at the end of the 2009 financial
year, in line with our initial targets set in November
2008. During the year, production at Hossy continued
to ramp-up to over 60,000 tonnes per month by
September 2009, from around 20,000 tonnes in
October 2008.
The improvement in productivity at Hossy shaft
was a result of substantial management effort and
focus to deliver an improved performance during the
year. We made some important upgrades to the way
we implement mechanised mining at the shaft. Firstly,
we increased our focus on equipment availability, with
better maintenance and quicker repair times being
achieved, supported by improved mining standards
and conditions. Secondly, we made improvements in
the utilisation of the extra-low profile equipment,
focusing on improving operator and supervisors’
skills, as well as upgrading management operating
systems. Thirdly, we made some significant changes
to the shaft’s mining layout and, as a result, we are
starting to see an increase in stoping panels per fleet
and we expect that to continue in 2010. Finally, we
upgraded the shaft’s infrastructure, implementing a
new communication network backbone, installing new
strike conveyors and constructing a new maintenance
workshop at the shaft.
Costs for the 2009 financial year at our core
underground conventional operations at Marikana
Mining were R466 per tonne, up 14% from 2008. If
we adjust for the additional tones lost due to Section
54’s the year on year increment would be 10%. Costs
at our mechanised and hybrid operations at Marikana
for the 2009 financial year were R630 per tonne,
up 3% from 2008. It should be noted in this context
that the wage inflation for 2009 was 12.5%. Capital
expenditure during 2009 at our Marikana Mining
division was R1,293 million, the majority of which
was allocated to Hossy, Saffy and K4.
Pandora joint venture
Our share of production from the Pandora joint
venture ground during the year was 298,000 tonnes
mined, a decline of 25% from 2008, as a result of the
planned stoppage of opencast production at the joint
venture. The underground operations at Pandora
produced 142,000 tonnes, a 15% increase from 2008.
• Initiation of consultations with the recognised
unions to increase the number of shifts worked;
• Removing technical bottlenecks through our
Half Level Optimisation programme and the
implementation of operating systems at each
shaft; and
• Implementation of several initiatives to assist us
in better managing inspections by the Department
of Mineral Resources, including a review of
relevant procedures and the roll-out of a union
consultation and communication plan relating to
Section 54 stoppages.
We are continuing to run a number of cost-cutting
initiatives within the Mining business and strict cost
management is embedded at each of our shafts at
Marikana. One such example is the bill of materials
project, introduced in 2009 at every shaft at Marikana.
The project tracks and monitors the purchase and
usage of key consumables against what is expected
for the proposed level of production, ensuring greater
control of the procurement of these consumables and a
better understanding of purchasing and usage patterns.
Marikana Mining
Total Marikana underground production during the
2009 financial year was the same as 2008 at 10.2
million tonnes. The ramp-up in production from our
mechanised and hybrid shafts was offset by, amongst
other things, an increase in prevalence and severity
of Section 54 safety shutdowns at our Marikana
operations. In 2009, we lost around 0.5 million tonnes
as a result of these shutdowns, compared to around
0.2 million tonnes in 2008.
In 2009 we mined 8.5 million tonnes from our
conventional underground Marikana operations, a
decline of 0.6 million tonnes from 2008. Around half
of this decline was due to the increase in Section 54
shutdowns, as outlined above with 80% of the total
tonnes lost due to Section 54 safety shutdowns in 2009
occurring at K3 and Rowland, our two largest shafts. In
addition, around 0.1 million tonnes were lost at our
Marikana conventional underground operations following
the planned closure of a small uneconomic decline shaft
and a further five half levels at Marikana during the third
quarter of 2009. Finally tonnes were lost during 2009 as
a direct result of disruption relating to the restructuring
programme completed in March, when a total of 7,000
full time employees and contractors left the business.
Production from our mechanised and hybrid
shafts increased 49% year-on-year to 1.7 million
tonnes. Saffy performed extremely well, despite the
multiple challenges faced by shaft management in
converting from fully mechanised to hybrid mining
during the year, with the shaft achieving its year end
monthly hoisting target of 80,000 tonnes in
September 2009. It will take a further 18 months for
the full transition to hybrid mining, but we are taking
the appropriate action to deliver this project safely,
on time and within budget. To support us in the
production ramp-up in 2010, we plan to increase the
number of crews during the first half of the year.
A NUMBER OF PRODUCTIVITY PROGRAMS WERE
INSTIGATED BY THE MINING MANAGEMENT TEAM
IN 2009 WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START TO
SHOW BENEFITS IN 2010. 14
Operational Review (continued)
Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore from the Pandora
joint venture and this ore contributed 46,421 saleable
ounces of Platinum in concentrate and 85,168
saleable ounces of total PGMs in concentrate to our
production. Pandora joint venture activities made a
loss of $1 million after tax for our account in the
financial year.
We are at the final stages of a feasibility study
on the underground extension of the Pandora Joint
Venture, subject to approval by the joint venture
partners, which is planned to come into production
in 2013.
Process Division
At the Process Division, management remains
focused on plant maintenance, efficiency, and stability
in order to maximise recoveries. In 2009, we made
good progress on a number of fronts at each of the
operating units within the division.
Costs for the year in the Process Division were
R1,508 per PGM ounce, up 4% from 2008, and
capital expenditure was R539 million.
Concentrators
The concentrators produced a total of 663,101
saleable ounces of Platinum in concentrate during the
2009 financial year, a 9% year-on-year decline, mainly
as a result of closing production at the Marikana and
Pandora opencast operations, as well as at Limpopo.
Overall concentrator recoveries improved during the
2009 financial year to 79.8%, from 79.2% in 2008,
partly due to the milling of less oxidised opencast
ore from deeper pits compared to the prior year.
Underground recoveries fell to 81.0%, from 81.7% in
2008, mainly as a result of undertaking extensive
maintenance on some of our Marikana concentrators
in the first quarter of the 2009 financial year and due
to ore mix. However, performance against our internal
models, which take account of ore mix issues,
showed a significant improvement during the year as
a result of a strong management team, investment in
maintenance to improve plant availability, and our
concentrator optimisation project. As evidence of this
improvement in performance, overall recoveries at
Marikana improved to 82.3% for September 2009,
compared to 79.5% in October 2008.
Underground milled head grade was 1.7% lower
year-on-year at 4.57 grammes per tonne (5PGE+Au)
mainly as a result of an increased proportion of
development ore coming from Hossy and Saffy and a
general increase in development ore throughout the
operations. On the UG2 horizon, we mined a larger
proportion of ore from some of the slightly lower grade
areas of the Marikana ore body and there was some
unplanned dilution, partially as a result of localised
geological conditions. There is still a lack of flexibility
in face availability on the Merensky reef horizon, and
some localised lower grade areas were encountered,
particularly during the first quarter of the year. Overall
milled head grade decreased marginally year-on-year
from 4.52 to 4.50 grammes per tonne (5PGE+Au).
We are working on a number of ways to extract
value from the treatment of our tailings. This involves
the extraction of chrome for onward sale, leaving
the retreated tailings in a form such that PGMs can
be extracted. This will also enhance recoveries.
We also have a number of inventory management
initiatives in place to ensure we optimise the value
of stock in the system, which is important in a cash
constrained environment.
Smelter
On 14 June 2009, we shut down our Number One
furnace following a matte run out. From our
investigations, we identified a design weakness in the
furnace, around the matte tappe hole area, which,
when allied with other factors, including the level at
which the electrodes operate in the furnace, caused
this incident. The furnace was subsequently run at
reduced power for most of the fourth quarter of 2009.
Production was supported by the running of our
Pyromet furnaces.
Following a re-design of the matte tappe hole
area at the furnace, a re-build commenced on
10 October 2009. On inspection, we were pleased
with the condition of the interior of the furnace as
this is a good indication that the changes we made
to management of electrodes had the desired effect.
The rebuild has been completed, with matte being
tapped on 9 November 2009. As a result of the
rebuild, refined production during the first quarter of
the 2010 financial year will be well below that of the
prior year period.
Whilst the Number One furnace has had a
number of run outs since it came into commission in
2002, our analysis shows that it has performed in line
with other smelters in the industry. We mitigated the
financial impact of the June run out and the cost
impact in the year was not significant, at around $5
million, given the short term catch up capacity we
have in place. Our knowledge of the workings of the
Smelter has improved significantly and we have an
experienced Smelter team. For further details on how
we are improving our management of the Smelter,
see the case study on the following page.
We have initiated a study to look at increasing
smelter capacity in the longer term. Additional
capacity will also enable us to mitigate further the risk
and impact of future Smelter disruptions as
production increases.
Management is also focused on managing the
base metal feed through the Smelter. Lonmin
predominantly mines UG2 ore, with around 20% of
the ore we mine being base metal-rich Merensky ore.
Following the placing of the Limpopo operation, with
its base metal-rich ore, on care and maintenance, we
require a moderate increase in the proportion of
Merensky material in the short term to maintain the
correct blend composition for feed into the Number
One furnace. To resolve this issue, we plan to re-open
one of our Merensky opencast pits in 2010, from
which we expect to produce around 25,000 Platinum
ounces during the year. As a result of revised
contractor terms, these ounces will be profitable.
In the meantime we are purchasing some low grade
Merensky type concentrate from a third party, a
portion of which is expected to remain in stock at the
end of 2010. We expect to achieve the optimal
Merensky content in our feed once K4 shaft, which is
relatively high in Merensky ore, commences production. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 15
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
the closure of opencast operations at Marikana and
Pandora and the placing of Limpopo operations on
care and maintenance, 2009 total refined production
would have been flat compared to 2008. Final metal
sales for 2009, including the sale from the BMR of
25,062 Platinum ounces of metal-in-process
inventory in the fourth quarter of the year, were in line
with our revised sales guidance at 682,955 ounces
of Platinum and 1,268,918 of total PGMs.
Refineries
Our refineries performed consistently throughout the
year. At the Base Metal Refinery (BMR), we were
successful in completing a major project to release
locked up metal-in-process at one of the storage
tanks at the facility. This will help lower average stock
levels in the refinery. Total refined production for 2009
was 657,317 ounces of Platinum and 1,244,709 of
total PGMs, down 6% and 7% respectively from the
same period in 2008. However, taking into account
PROCESS DIVISION MANAGEMENT REMAINS FOCUSED
ON PLANT MAINTENANCE, EFFICIENCY , AND STABILITY
IN ORDER TO MAXIMISE RECOVERIES.
“AT THE WET SECTION OF THE SMELTER,
KEY FOCUS AREAS ARE BLEND FEED
OPTIMISATION AND INVENTORY MANAGEMENT”
Kiran Chaitram
Case Study: Smelter Wet Section
– regular communication between the Concentrator and the Smelter teams is vital
Kiran Chaitram
Wet Section Manager
The role of the Wet Section at the Smelter is to maintain
an optimal blend of feed which goes to the Smelter’s
furnaces, run by the Hot Section. Specifically, the key
challenge for the Wet Section team is to maintain the
right level of base metal content in the feed, in order to
sustain appropriate heat levels in the furnaces and to
deliver the requisite volume of smelter matte to the
refineries. In 2009, this challenge has been exacerbated
by a reduced proportion of base metal-rich Merensky ore
delivered from the mines to the Concentrators. T o support
us in maintaining the appropriate blend feed, we therefore
had to ensure a careful balance between concentrate
deliveries from the Concentrators and feed from our slag
plant. We also bought in a limited amount of third party
concentrate as an insurance policy. At the same time, we
have faced and successfully tackled the challenge of
managing and reducing inventory levels at the Smelter.
We were particularly successful in processing the
inventory built up following the matte run-out incident at
the Number One furnace in June, including 3,000
tonnes of furnace and converter bricks, which are
extremely difficult to process. Our inventory management
has remained robust during the year. 16
Reserves and Resources
During 2009, Lonmin has reviewed its Mineral Resource and Reserves and certain areas have been re-estimated
where necessary. The major changes are as follows:
• Continued extension drilling of the Marikana Mineral Resource area provided an additional 10 Moz 3PGE+Au
in Resource;
• A 7% increase in the overall Marikana Mineral Resource grade resulted from extension drilling into high grade
Merensky Reef areas and enhanced Merensky Mineral Resource estimation techniques;
The Marikana Mineral Reserve grade increased by 2% overall;
• Optimisation of planned Resource extraction below the K4 Vertical Shaft Block has demonstrated that
value is enhanced by combining the Sub Incline Resources with the K5 Resources, rather than with K4. The
re-designation of the Sub Incline area resulted in a reduction of approximately 5 Moz 3PGE+Au in Probable
Mineral Reserves, which remain as Mineral Resources in the inventory. The Reserves are expected to be
re-instated once the necessary Pre-Feasibility work has been completed over the combined K5 and K4
Sub-Incline blocks;
• The total Mineral Resource content increased by 15% and the 3PGE+Au grade increased by 3%. This was
largely realised in the Inferred Resource at both the Schaapkraal Prospecting Area at Marikana and the
Limpopo Baobab Mine Block;
• Continued diamond drilling at Akanani resulted in a higher proportion of P2 Indicated Mineral Resources,
further increasing the confidence of this Mineral Resource; and
• The Pandora Plan 4 area has been fully included in the Mineral Reserve resulting in an additional 0.4 Moz of
3PGE+Au in the Probable Reserve category attributable to Lonmin.
A summary of the changes in both the Lonmin Mineral Resources and Reserves is shown in the following
tables and should be read in conjunction with the Key Assumptions outlined below. The complete 2009 Mineral
Resources and Reserves statement can be found on our website: www.lonmin.com.
Mineral Resources (Total Measured, Indicated & Inferred)
1,4
30-Sep-2009 30-Sep-2008
Mt
5
3PGE+Au Pt Mt
5
3PGE+Au Pt
Area g/t Moz Moz g/t Moz Moz
Marikana 750.7 5.01 120.8 71.1 672.0 4.68 101.1 59.3
Limpopo
2
144.7 4.22 19.6 10.0 138.1 4.23 18.8 9.5
Limpopo Baobab shaft 46.1 3.91 5.8 3.0 28.6 4.00 3.7 1.9
Akanani 176.6 3.96 22.5 9.4 154.4 4.42 21.9 9.3
Pandora JV 54.9 4.29 7.6 4.7 55.5 4.30 7.7 4.7
Loskop JV
3
10.1 4.04 1.3 0.8 10.1 4.04 1.3 0.8
Total 1,183.1 4.67 177.6 98.9 1,058.8 4.54 154.5 85.6
Mineral Reserves (Total Proved & Probable)
1
30-Sep-2009 30-Sep-2008
Mt
5
3PGE+Au Pt Mt
5
3PGE+Au Pt
Area g/t Moz Moz g/t Moz Moz
Marikana 297.5 4.11 39.3 23.8 332.6 4.03 43.1 25.9
Limpopo
2
40.1 3.23 4.2 2.1 40.1 3.23 4.2 2.1
Limpopo Baobab shaft 9.4 3.16 1.0 0.5 9.4 3.16 1.0 0.5
Pandora JV 3.1 4.25 0.4 0.3 0.5 4.28 0.06 0.04
Total 350.1 3.98 44.8 26.6 382.5 3.93 48.3 28.5
Notes
1) All figures are reported on a Lonmin Plc attributable basis, the relative proportions of ownership per project being shown in the Key
Assumptions outlined below.
2) Limpopo
2
excludes Baobab shaft.
3) Loskop JV
3
excludes Rh, due to insufficient assays, and therefore 2PGE+Au is reported.
4) Resources are reported Inclusive of Reserves.
5) Quantities have been rounded to one decimal place and grades have been rounded to two decimal places, therefore minor
computational errors may occur. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 17
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Key assumptions regarding the 2009 Lonmin Mineral Resource and Reserve Statement
• Mineral Resources are reported inclusive of Mineral Reserves. Resources that are converted to Reserves are
also included in the Mineral Resource statement.
• All quoted Resources and Reserves include Lonmin’s attributable portion only. There have been no changes
in the percentage attributable to Lonmin during the year. The following percentages were applied to the total
Mineral Resource and Reserve for each property:
Limpopo – Limpopo – Baobab,
Marikana Dwaalkop JV Doornvlei, Zebediela Akanani Pandora Loskop
Lonmin Attributable 82% 41% 82% 74% 34.85% 41%
• Incwala Resources, Lonmin’s BEE partner, owns 18% of both Western Platinum Limited and Eastern
Platinum Limited and 26% of Akanani.
• Limpopo includes Dwaalkop JV which is a Lonmin managed JV between Mvelaphanda Resources (50%)
and Western Platinum (50%).
• Pandora JV: Eastern Platinum Limited has an attributable interest of 42.5% in the Pandora Joint Venture
together with Anglo Platinum (42.5%), Mvelaphanda Resources (7.5%) and the Bapo Ba Mogale Mining
Company (7.5%).
• Loskop JV: Western Platinum Limited has an attributable interest of 50% in the Loskop Joint Venture with
Boynton Investments.
• Grades are reported as 3PGE+Au, which is a summation of the Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium and Gold
grades. Available assay information, obtained from concentrate and drillhole core, indicates that the
proportion of 3PGE+Au contained in 5PGE+Au is approximately as follows:
UG2 Merensky Platreef
Marikana 0.82 0.93 –
Limpopo 0.86 0.93 –
Akanani –– 0.95
Pandora 0.81 ––
• Mineral Resources are reported as “in-situ” tonnes and grade and allow for geological losses such as faults,
dykes, potholes and Iron Rich Ultramafic Pegmatite (IRUP).
• Mineral Resources are estimated using a minimum true width of at least 90 cm and therefore may include
some diluting material.
• Proved and Probable Mineral Reserves are reported as tonnes and grade expected to be delivered to the
mill, are inclusive of diluting materials and allow for losses that may occur when the material is mined.
• Mine tailings dams are excluded from the above Mineral Resource summary.
• For economic studies and the determination of pay limits, consideration was made of both short and long
term revenue drivers. The following long term assumptions were used: Pt $1,600, Pd $400, Rh $3,000,
Ru $150, Ir $430, Au $700 per ounce and Ni $15,000, Cu $4,000 per tonne, using an average exchange
rate of $1 to R9.
• Unless otherwise stated, the Lonmin Mineral Resources and Reserves estimates were prepared or
supervised by various persons employed by Lonmin. 18
Financial Review
WE TOOK SIGNIFICANT STEPS DURING THE YEAR TO STRENGTHEN
OUR BALANCE SHEET AND REDUCE OUR COST BASE.
Introduction
The 2009 financial year was impacted by four
significant factors:
• PGM Pricing: as a result of the global economic
downturn, and its impact on PGM customers, the
pricing environment was significantly weaker than
the prior year with the average US Dollar PGM
basket price nearly 50% lower. This had a major
impact on our revenues during 2009, down $1.2
billion or 52.4%. Pricing has, however, improved
during 2009 with the PGM basket increasing by
23% from $699 per ounce in half one to $861 per
ounce in half two;
• Foreign exchange: The average daily exchange
rate for the Rand to the US Dollar weakened from
R7.45/$ in 2008 to R9.00/$ in 2009 which has
had a benefit of $179 million on operating profit
with the vast majority of the effect being in the
first half. The exchange rate during 2009 has,
however, been far more volatile trading across a
range of more than R4/$. From a closing rate of
R8.27/$ at the end of 2008 the Rand quickly
weakened to a rate of around R10/$ where it
remained for much of half one (with a peak of
R11.59/$ on 22 October). The second half of
2009 has seen a substantial strengthening of the
Rand with rates falling to as low as R7.27/$ and
an average of around R8/$. This strengthening of
the Rand has effectively offset all the second half
US Dollar pricing gains noted above;
• Restructuring: a major restructuring programme
was carried out in the year which resulted in the
closure of unprofitable operations and a reduction
in the cost base for ongoing operations. This
restructuring programme has incurred a one-off
cost of $49 million, but is expected to deliver
annualised cost benefits of approximately $90
million. In the second half cost savings from
the above totalled $64 million with foreign
exchange rates enhancing the US Dollar impact.
In Rand terms savings were ahead of the initial
expectations. As a result of the actions taken total
South African gross operating costs at R8.8 billion
were R0.6 billion lower than 2008 despite a
12.5% pay award effective throughout the year;
• Balance sheet management: during the year
significant steps have been taken to strengthen
the balance sheet. In May the Group undertook
a Rights Issue which was over 96% subscribed
and raised $458 million after costs and foreign
exchange charges in line with expectations given
in the prospectus. In addition $575 million of
existing credit facilities have been re-negotiated,
extending the debt maturity profile, and agreement
has also been reached with the Group’s
bankers to waive all EBITDA related covenants
at 30 September 2009 and 31 March 2010
and the net debt / EBITDA related covenant at
30 September 2010. The volatility in PGM prices
and the Rand to US Dollar exchange rate mean
that our EBITDA margins could remain low and
difficult to predict. Both of these matters are
discussed in further detail below.
Basis of preparation
The financial information presented has been prepared
on the same basis and using the same accounting
policies as those used to prepare the financial
statements for the year ended 30 September 2008.
Analysis of results
Income Statement
The underlying operating profit for the year to
30 September 2008 of $963 million has fallen to a
loss of $93 million in the year to 30 September 2009.
An analysis of the movement between the years is
given below:
$m
Year to 30 September 2008 reported
operating profit 764
Year to 30 September 2008 special items 199
Year to 30 September 2008 underlying
operating profit 963
PGM price (1,037)
PGM volume (203)
PGM mix 98
Base metals (27)
Cost changes (including foreign
exchange impact) 113
Year to 30 September 2009 underlying
operating loss (93)
Year to 30 September 2009 special items (49)
Year to 30 September 2009 reported
operating loss (142) www.lonmin.com 19
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Platinum recovered to $1,280 per ounce by the end
of 2009 with an average for the year of $1,079 per
ounce. In a similar manner Rhodium recovered to
$1,650 per ounce by the end of 2009 with an average
for the year of $1,478 per ounce. The decline in
pricing versus 2008 has led to a reduction in revenue
of just over $1 billion.
The PGM sales volume for the year at 1,268,918
ounces were 132,453 below the prior year (of which
approximately 103,000 ounces can be attributed to
closed operations) resulting in an adverse revenue
impact of $203 million (based on 2008 pricing as all
price effects are included in the price variance
described above). The mix of metals sold resulted in a
favourable impact to revenue of $98 million due to the
mix of Platinum and Rhodium. The contribution from
base metals fell by $27 million, or one-third, with
Nickel prices falling by 33.5%.
Cost changes (increase) / decrease
$m
Marikana conventional underground mining (30)
Hossy and Saffy shafts (35)
Concentrating and processing (18)
Overhead costs 74
Savings from closed operations 76
Operating costs 67
Pandora ore purchases 41
Metal stock movement (176)
Foreign exchange 179
Depreciation 2
Total 113
Marikana conventional underground mining costs
in the year increased by only $30 million or 7.1% over
the year to 30 September 2009, despite wage
inflation of 12.5% and increased ore reserve
development costs, mainly due to the restructuring
benefits in half two estimated at $33 million.
During 2008 the new shafts, Hossy and Saffy, first
became fully operational and began to incur working
costs. In 2009 the shafts were fully operational during
the whole year and production increased by nearly
50%. These factors gave rise to an increase in costs
for these shafts of $35 million or 46.5% as planned.
Processing and concentrating costs increased by
$18 million reflecting incremental utility costs, costs
due to the Smelter rebuild, additional toll fees,
investments in plant maintenance and additional
staff to improve plant stability and recoveries.
Revenue
The PGM market was generally strong in the 2008
financial year enabling the Group to achieve a PGM
basket price of $1,529 per ounce for this year (with
Platinum at $1,655 per ounce and Rhodium at
$7,614 per ounce).
The economic downturn following the credit
crunch impacted the last quarter of financial year
2008 and had a significant effect on financial year
2009 as a whole. Vehicle manufacturers are the
principal customers for PGM metals, in particular
Rhodium, and it has been one of the most affected
sectors in the downturn. The market for PGMs was
also significantly impacted by destocking and some
selling of inventories by vehicle manufacturers. In
addition there was a significant reduction in the
investment holdings of Exchange Traded Funds
(ETFs) which had fallen from nearly 500,000 Platinum
ounces during July 2008 to circa 280,000 Platinum
ounces at September 2008.
Between March 2008 and July 2008 Platinum
and Rhodium traded consistently above $2,000 per
ounce and $9,000 per ounce respectively. There
was then a sharp decline with Platinum falling to
a low point of $756 per ounce on 27 October 2008
and Rhodium falling to a low point of $1,000 per
ounce on 25 November 2008. Pricing remained at
low levels during the first calendar quarter of 2009
but subsequently there have been some signs of
recovery. Global light vehicle sales volumes have
been increasing since the start of 2009, supported
by stimulus measures in a number of countries, and
vehicles stocks are at historically low levels. The ETFs
have been restocking indicating growing confidence
in price improvements with holdings recovering to
560,000 Platinum ounces at the year end and the
Chinese jewellery market has grown significantly.
Alan Ferguson
Chief Financial Officer
“We completed a major restructuring program in the year which
eliminated unproﬁtable ounces and reduced the most signiﬁcant
element of our cost profile.”
Alan Ferguson 20
Financial Review (continued)
In summary Rand costs at R8.8 billion are
R0.6 billion lower than 2008 despite a 12.5% wage
increase and are below our guidance issued at the
half year. This reflects ongoing benefits of the
restructuring programme as well as the benefit of
closed operations. In 2010 the Directors expect Rand
gross costs to increase by less than local inflation,
despite anticipated mining volume increases, due to
a full year’s benefit arising from the restructuring and
ongoing cost control measures.
Restructuring programme
In total the restructuring undertaken in the year
resulted in a headcount reduction in excess of 7,000
as per our guidance at the interims. Around 4,800
employees left the Group, with 3,600 of these leaving
as part of the restructuring programme (of which less
than 300 were as a result of compulsory redundancy)
and a net reduction of 1,200 through natural attrition.
Nearly 2,300 contractor positions were removed.
The programme was substantially implemented at the
end of the first half. In comparison to the anticipated
annualised labour cost benefit of $90 million (R900
million) announced at the interims the Group has
saved $64 million (R525 million) in the second half.
This means that we have outperformed our initial
expectations even allowing for the strengthening of
the Rand and also that a payback on the $49 million
one-off restructuring cost has already been achieved.
Cost per PGM ounce
The cost per PGM ounce produced by Marikana
operations for the year to 30 September 2009 at
R6,590 was 7.4% higher than 2008. Whilst overall
Rand costs were well controlled given the 12.5% pay
award, as described above, the reduction in
production volumes impacted unit costs negatively.
A key factor was the frequency and severity of safety
related shutdowns in the year which caused an
increase of circa R200 per PGM ounce.
Further details of unit costs analysis can be found
in the operating statistics table on page 139. It should
be noted that with the restructuring of the business
the cost allocation between business units has been
changed and therefore whilst the total is on a like-for-
like basis individual line items are not totally
comparable.
Overhead costs are $74 million lower than 2008.
Approximately $30 million of this saving has been
generated by lower royalties (which are profit related)
and a decline in share-based payments and
associated taxes. However, the remaining $44 million
of saving has been created through specific actions.
The scope of exploration activities has been reduced
significantly with expenditure less than half that of the
prior year. The London Head Office has been
refocused with a reduction of approximately one-third
of the staff and central costs in South Africa have
been reduced. Training and consulting costs have
also been reduced.
Costs have also reduced by $76 million following
the cessation of production at unprofitable operations.
Opencast operations ceased on 31 December 2008
with subsequent costs incurred only with respect to
rehabilitation. The intention to close the Limpopo
Baobab shaft was announced in November 2008.
After a 21 day wage related strike in December effective
operations, and therefore production, ceased. From
December to March, when the operation was closed,
Limpopo operating costs have been treated as a
special item. After March the ongoing care and
maintenance costs have been treated as underlying
costs but are a fraction of the full operating costs.
The cost of ore purchased from the Pandora joint
venture is $41 million lower than the prior year with
volume falling due to the cessation of opencast
operations and the fall in metal prices which
determine the bought-in price.
Movements on metal stock inventory were very
different between 2008 and 2009. During 2008 stock
levels increased by $128 million from a low point at
September 2007, due to escalating costs and an
inventory build up. Conversely in 2009 the metal
inventory value has reduced by $48 million with
reduced inventories, despite the Smelter operating at
low power levels at the end of the year. These two
movements in aggregate have caused a $176 million
adverse effect.
Foreign exchange has been an extremely positive
factor with a $189 million benefit arising on the
translation of costs with the average Rand to US Dollar
rate of exchange for costs weakening by 18%. This
was partially offset by a $10 million adverse movement
arising from the translation of working capital. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 21
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
The Rights Issue had a major impact on reported
net finance costs in the year with three factors
contributing all of which have been treated as special
items in the income statement:
• The Group undertook forward currency hedges to
fix the US Dollar value from Sterling receipts arising
from the fully underwritten Rights Issue and as a
result received $458 million net of expenses and
exchange differences in line with the $457 million
estimated in the prospectus. However, Sterling
strengthened prior to the Rights Issue proceeds
being received and if no cover had been taken
the Group would have received an additional
$33 million. This fair value loss is taken through
the income statement under IFRS with the
corresponding offset increasing share premium.
• Rights Issue proceeds were received over the
offer period in Sterling or Rand and were
recognised at spot rates on the date of receipt.
The retranslation of these balances prior to the
closing of the offer resulted in a loss of $4 million
recognised in exchange on net debt.
• There is a $36 million loss arising as a result of
IAS 32 as adopted by the EU recognising a
derivative liability in respect of the Rights Issue.
This loss does not impact cash and, as it is
effectively reversed in retained earnings, has no
overall impact on the balance sheet and financial
position of the Group. IAS 32 was amended in
October 2009 such that, once adopted by the
EU, the Rights Issue would be treated more
appropriately as an equity transaction. In this case
the $36 million loss would not arise. Note 29 to
the Accounts gives more detail in this regard.
The total net finance cost of $92 million for the
year was therefore $99 million adverse to the prior
year of which $73 million related to special items
arising from the treatment of the Rights Issue (see
note 29 to the Accounts).
Share of profit of associate and joint venture
The share of profit has decreased by $26 million in
the period reflecting the reduced profitability of the
Pandora joint venture, which has been impacted by
the reduction in metal prices in a similar manner to
the Group, and by reduced income in the Incwala
associate as a result of significantly reduced minority
dividends paid by the Group’s operating subsidiaries.
Special operating costs
In FY08 special costs had a significant impact on
operating profit with $199 million being charged. This
largely related to the impairment of assets related to
Limpopo, together with bid defence costs and a
pension settlement. In 2009 the one-off costs of $49
million related to costs associated with the reduction
in employees together with the abnormal operating
costs for Limpopo operations, subsequent to the
announcement of closure, and the cost of the
restructuring programme itself. More details can be
found in note 3 to the accounts.
Impairment of available for sale financial assets
The Group holds listed investments which are marked
to market. In financial year 2008 the market value of
certain of these investments fell below the original
acquisition cost and this resulted in a $19 million
impairment which was taken to the income
statement. In 2009 further mark to market losses
were incurred resulting in $39 million further charges
being recognised at the interim results. Subsequent
to March 2009 the value of these investments have
recovered by $9 million however, under IFRS, these
gains are reflected directly in equity.
Summary of net finance (costs) / income
Year to 30 September
2009 2008
$m $m
Net bank interest and fees (20) (18)
Capitalised interest payable
and fees 23 23
Exchange (20) (2)
Rights Issue impacts (73) –
Other (2) 4
Net finance (costs) / income (92) 7
Net interest charges and fees were little changed
in 2009 and correspondingly capitalised interest was
also similar. The volatility and significant weakening
of the Rand against the US Dollar at times during the
year to 30 September 2009 had a marked impact
on Rand cash balances held for operational and
funding purposes resulting in $23 million of exchange
losses which was the main component of the
$20 million charge. 22
Cash flow
The following table summarises the main components
of the cash flow during the year:
Year to 30 September
2009 2008
$m $m
Operating (loss) / profit (142) 764
Depreciation and amortisation 94 96
Impairment – 174
Operating profit before
depreciation, amortisation
and impairment (48) 1,034
Change in working capital 110 (84)
Other 1 (3)
Cash flow from operations 63 947
Interest and finance costs (31) (12)
Tax (48) (229)
Trading cash (outflow) / inflow (16) 706
Capital expenditure (234) (378)
Proceeds from disposal of
assets held for sale – 1
Dividends paid to minority (21) (65)
Free cash (outflow) / inflow (271) 264
Investment in joint venture /
disposals (5) 3
Financial investments – (17)
Net proceeds from rights
shares issued (before foreign
exchange loss on advance
cash held) 462 –
Other shares issued 16 6
Equity dividends
received / (paid) 3 (186)
Cash inflow 205 70
Opening net debt (303) (375)
Foreign exchange (27) 2
Unamortised fees 12 –
Closing net debt (113) (303)
Trading cash (outflow) / inflow
(cents per share) (9.2)c 431.0c
Free cash (outflow) / inflow
(cents per share) (155.6)c 161.2c
Note: Trading cash flow per share and free cash flow per share
have been restated for the effects of the Rights Issue.
Cash flow generated from operations in the year
was positive, at $63 million, despite being impacted
by the restructuring programme which caused a cash
outflow of $49 million. Compared to the prior year,
cash flow generated from operations was down by
$884 million due to the adverse impact of the fall in
operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and
impairment of $1,082 million being offset to a limited
extent by the $194 million turnaround in the working
capital position. This change in working capital
(Loss) / profit before tax and earnings
Reported losses before tax for the year to
30 September 2009 at $272 million are $1,051 million
worse than the prior year. This has been driven by the
$906 million decline in reported operating profit, the
$99 million adverse movement on net finance costs,
the decrease of $26 million in the Group’s share of
profit from associates and joint ventures and the further
$20 million loss on available for sale financial assets.
Reported tax for the current year was a charge of
$51 million. Current tax in the year effectively reflects
the secondary tax on dividends with negligible corporate
taxation in the year. A net $38 million adverse
exchange loss arose on the retranslation of Rand tax
liabilities which is treated as special. In comparison to
the $213 million charge for reported tax in the prior
year this resulted in a $162 million benefit.
Loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders
amounted to $285 million (2008 – profit $455 million)
and the loss per share was 163.7 cents compared with
earnings per share of 277.8 cents in 2008. Underlying
loss per share, being earnings excluding special
items, amounted to 59.2 cents (2008 – underlying
earnings per share 335.8 cents). The loss and
earnings per share figures have been adjusted to
reflect the effect of the Rights Issue.
Balance sheet
A reconciliation of the movement in equity shareholders’
funds for the year to 30 September 2009 is given below.
$m
Equity shareholders’ funds
as at 1 October 2008 2,147
Recognised income and expense (280)
Shares issued 508
Reversal of fair value movements
on Rights Issue derivative liability 36
Share-based payments and other 6
Equity shareholders’ funds
as at 30 September 2009 2,417
Equity shareholders’ funds were $2,417 million
at 30 September 2009 compared with $2,147 million
at 1 October 2008, an increase of $270 million.
This was due to the recognition of $280 million of
attributable losses being more than offset by the total
increase in share capital and share premium of $508
million from the issue of shares, of which $491 million
arose on the Rights Issue (net of costs) and the
reversal of the $36 million loss on the Rights Issue
derivative liability loss as described above.
Net debt at $113 million has decreased by $190
million since the 2008 year end mainly due to the
benefit of the Rights Issue.
Gearing, calculated on net borrowings attributable
to the Group divided by those attributable net
borrowings and the equity interests outstanding at the
balance sheet date, was 2% at 30 September 2009
and 12% at 30 September 2008.
Financial Review (continued) 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 23
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Dividends
The Board’s policy remains that dividends are based
upon reported earnings for the year with due regard for
the projected cash requirements of the business. As a
result of our financial results for the year and with 2010
still potentially challenging for PGM prices and exchange
rates the Board has decided not to declare a dividend in
respect of the year to 30 September 2009.
Financial risk management
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to
the availability of funds to meet business needs (liquidity
risk), the risk of default by counterparties to financial
transactions (credit risk), fluctuations in interest and
foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. The
Group also has a number of contingent liabilities.
These factors are the critical ones to take into
consideration when addressing Going Concern. As
is clear from the following paragraphs, we are in a
strong position. There are, however, factors which
are outside the control of management, specifically,
volatility in the Rand / US Dollar exchange rate and
PGM commodity prices, which can have a significant
impact on the business and sensitivities are disclosed
in this regard.
Liquidity risk
The policy on overall liquidity is to ensure that the
Group has sufficient funds to facilitate all ongoing
operations.
As part of the annual budgeting and long term
planning process, the Group’s cash flow forecast is
reviewed and approved by the Board. The cash flow
forecast is amended for any material changes
identified during the year e.g. material acquisitions
and disposals. Where funding requirements are
identified from the cash flow forecast, appropriate
measures are taken to ensure these requirements can
be satisfied. Factors taken into consideration are:
• the size and nature of the requirement;
• preferred sources of finance applying key criteria
of cost, commitment, availability, security /
covenant conditions;
• recommended counterparties, fees and market
conditions; and
• covenants, guarantees and other financial
commitments.
In the year Lonmin completed the refinancing
of $575 million of existing committed facilities
comprising, in the UK, a $250 million revolving
credit facility and a $150 million amortising term
loan (both now maturing in 2012) and, in South
Africa, a $175 million revolving credit facility maturing
in November 2010 (together the “New Facilities”).
This refinancing has significantly lengthened the
tenure of the Company’s banking facilities. In June
2009, the Company successfully completed a 2 for
9 Rights Issue which raised net proceeds of $458
million and further strengthened the balance sheet.
Some of these proceeds were used to pay down
debt in the UK, the remainder being held on deposit.
reflected a substantial improvement in trade debtors,
partly through lower metal prices but also through
the achievement of improved credit terms, together
with the favourable relative movement on the stock
position being offset by a reduction in creditors which
was impacted by a Rand translation effect. After
interest and finance costs of $31 million and tax
payments of $48 million, trading cash outflow for the
year amounted to $16 million against a $706 million
inflow in the prior year. The cash flow on interest and
finance costs increased due to the payment of
arrangement fees on the renegotiation of bank
facilities. The tax payments in 2009 represented the
final on account payment in respect of 2008 profits
and a limited outflow of secondary taxes in respect
of the dividend. The trading cash outflow per share was
9.2 cents in the year to 30 September 2009 against a
431.0 cents inflow in the year to 30 September 2008
as restated for the Rights Issue.
Capital expenditure cash flow at $234 million was
$144 million below the prior year with the Group
reducing expenditure in the current difficult economic
environment. In Mining the expenditure was focused
on development of the operations at Hossy and Saffy,
equipping at K4 and investment in sub-declines at K3
as well as securing some water resources at Akanani.
In the Process Division we invested mainly in the
Smelter upgrade and in improvements at the
Concentrators. This expenditure was below our market
guidance of $250 million reflecting strict controls on
this area of spend. For 2010 our guidance for capital
expenditure is up to $270 million. This reflects the
need to invest ahead of the expected market upturn
in order to deliver more ounces from 2011 onwards
which will also assist in improving unit cost performance.
We will, however, always balance the need to invest
with the requirement to maintain a strong balance
sheet and will manage spend accordingly.
Dividends paid to minorities in the year at $21
million were $44 million lower than the prior year. The
dividend paid in the year largely related to profits
generated in 2008.
Free cash outflow at $271 million was $535
million adverse to the prior year with free cash inflow
per share of 161.2 cents deteriorating to an outflow
of 155.6 cents. As reported at the 2008 final results
and 2009 interims the Directors decided not to
declare a dividend. Consequently no dividend cash
outflow occurred in the year.
In the second half, Lonmin Plc undertook a Rights
Issue which raised $462 million of equity net of
transaction costs and the loss on forward currency
hedges. The transaction also gave rise to a $4 million
loss on the exchange on net borrowings and
therefore resulted in a $458 million inflow, in line with
the prospectus. In addition the International Finance
Corporation exercised an option in the year to subscribe
for Lonmin share capital and this represented the
majority of the remaining equity issuance.
The overall cash inflow for the year to 30 September
was $205 million which decreased net debt accordingly. 24
• Originally, key covenants for this facility, which are
to be tested at the WPL / EPL level in South
Africa, included a minimum EBITDA / net interest
ratio of 3.5 times, and a maximum net debt /
EBITDA ratio of 2.75 times; these covenants are
to be tested on a rolling 12 month basis every 6
months on 31 March and 30 September. These
covenants are consistent with our $300 million
term loan which expires in mid 2013. We have
successfully secured a covenant waiver for the
net debt / EBITDA ratio at 30 September 2009,
31 March 2010 and 30 September 2010 and the
EBITDA / net interest ratio at 30 September 2009
and 31 March in both the $175 million multi-
currency revolving credit facility and the $300
million term loan. As a consequence of this, the
margin on the $300 million term loan has
increased from 100bps to 300bps.
• One-off up-front arrangement and lending fees
associated with the debt refinancing amount to
$14 million and will be amortised over the life of
the facilities they relate to.
With the commencement of the New Facilities
and the re-pricing of the $300 million term loan,
interest payable will increase and an effective funding
rate of circa 6% is anticipated.
Credit risk
Banking counterparties
Banking counterparty credit risk is managed by
spreading financial transactions across an approved
list of counterparties of high credit quality. Banking
counterparties are approved by the Board.
Trade receivables
The Group is exposed to significant trade receivable
credit risk through the sale of PGM metals to a limited
group of customers.
This risk is managed as follows:
• aged analysis is performed on trade receivable
balances and reviewed on a monthly basis;
• credit ratings are obtained on any new customers
and the credit ratings of existing customers are
monitored on an ongoing basis;
• credit limits are set for customers; and
• trigger points and escalation procedures are
clearly defined.
Interest rate risk
Currently, all outstanding borrowings are in US Dollars
and at floating rates of interest. Given current market
rates, this position is not considered to be high risk at
this point in time. This position is kept under constant
review in conjunction with the liquidity policy outlined
above and the future funding requirements of
the business.
In addition the Company agreed with its banks to
waive all EBITDA covenants at September 2009 and
March 2010 as well as the net debt to EBITDA
covenants at September 2010. Our relationship
banks have shown clear confidence in our business
by agreeing to these New Facilities and covenant
waivers and we fully expect this support to continue.
As at 30 September 2008, Lonmin had net debt
of $303 million. At 30 September 2009, Lonmin’s net
debt had decreased to $113 million, comprising $407
million of drawn down facilities net of $282 million of
cash and equivalents and $12 million of unamortised
bank fees. This represents a decrease in net debt
from 30 September 2008 of $190 million.
Lonmin has $875 million of committed facilities in
place, with $575 million of these comprising new
facilities. The main elements of the new facilities can
be summarised as follows:
• For the period commencing April 2009, Lonmin
has agreed a new $250 million revolving credit
facility in the UK, which will expire in November
2012.
• For the period commencing August 2009, Lonmin
has agreed a new $150 million forward-start
amortising loan facility in the UK, which will expire
in November 2012. The amortisation of this facility
consists of $20 million payable every six months
starting in July 2010, with a final repayment of
$50 million in November 2012.
• The margin on both these facilities is 400 basis
points up to 31 March 2011, and will thereafter
be determined by reference to net debt / EBITDA
and will be in the range 250bps to 400bps.
• The key covenants in these facilities originally
included a maximum net debt / EBITDA ratio of
4.0 times, to be first tested in March 2010; a
minimum EBITDA / net interest ratio of 4.0 times,
to be first tested in March 2010; and a maximum
net debt / tangible net worth ratio of 0.75 times,
to be tested in September 2009 and March 2010,
and moving to 0.7 times on a semi-annual basis
thereafter. We have successfully secured a
covenant waiver for the net debt / EBITDA ratio at
31 March 2010 and 30 September 2010 and the
EBITDA / net interest ratio at 31 March 2010.
• In South Africa, Lonmin has secured an extension
to the maturity of the existing $175 million multi-
currency revolving credit facility to November
2010; this facility was previously due to mature
in October 2009. The margin is 141bps over
JIBAR until 30 September 2009 if drawn in Rand,
with pricing on US Dollar draw downs being
negotiated at the time. The margin from
1 October 2009 will be 350bps over JIBAR.
Financial Review (continued) 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 25
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Fiscal risk
The South African Government originally intended to
introduce a new Mining Royalty in 2009, but this has
now been deferred until 1 March 2010. The Royalty
Bill has now been enacted, the Royalty being
calculated based on a percentage of Gross Sales.
The percentage is calculated using a formula
depending on whether the Company sells
concentrate, ore or refined products. The Royalty
formula is subject to a minimum royalty rate of 0.5%,
which will be applicable if the formula calculation
results in a rate of less than 0.5%.
The formula for refined products is:
% of Gross Sales = Adjusted EBIT* x 100
Gross Sales x 12.5
* Adjusted EBIT for the purpose of the Royalty calculation is
statutory EBIT adjusted for, amongst other things, depreciation
and a capital deduction based on Mining Tax rules.
Contingent liabilities
At the balance sheet date indemnities given by
Lonmin to Impala Platinum Holdings Limited (Impala)
of R618 million ($83 million) were shown as
contingent liabilities. These indemnities were in
respect of any non-payment by any HDSA of the
vendor financing amounts arising on the sale of the
9.11% interest in Western Platinum Limited and
Eastern Platinum Limited on the relevant due date.
Lonmin has a counter indemnity claim for the full
amount which is secured on the relevant HDSA
investor’s shares in Incwala. After the balance sheet
date, R294 million ($39 million) has been called by
Impala and was paid on 7 October 2009 resulting in
the recognition of a HDSA receivable (which is
backed by the counter indemnity). A further R147
million ($20 million) is exercisable on 16 December
2009. Of the remaining indemnity, R118 million
($16 million) is enforceable on 30 September 2011
and R59 million ($8 million) is enforceable on
16 December 2011.
Further contingent liabilities are explained in detail
in note 25 to the Accounts.
Alan Ferguson
Chief Financial Officer
13 November 2009
Foreign currency risk
Most of the Group’s operations are based in South
Africa and the majority of the revenue stream is in US
Dollars. However, the bulk of the Group’s operating
costs and taxes are paid in Rand. Most of the cash
received in South Africa is in US Dollars and is
normally remitted to the UK on a regular basis. Most
of the Group’s funding sources are in US Dollars.
The Group’s reporting currency remains the US
Dollar and the share capital of the Company is based
in US Dollars.
Our current policy is not to hedge Rand / US
Dollar currency exposures and therefore fluctuations
in the Rand to US Dollar exchange rate can have a
significant impact on the Group’s results. A
strengthening of the Rand against the US Dollar has
an adverse effect on profits due to the majority of
operating costs being paid in Rand.
The approximate effect on the Group’s results of a
10% movement in the Rand to US Dollar 2009 year
average exchange rate would be as follows:
EBIT ± $91m
Profit for the year ± $53m
EPS (cents) ± 30.4c
These sensitivities are based on 2009 prices,
costs and volumes and assume all other variables
remain constant. They are estimated calculations only.
Commodity price risk
Our policy is not to hedge commodity price exposure
on PGMs and therefore any change in prices will have
a direct effect on the Group’s trading results.
On base metals, which are by-products of PGM
production, hedging is undertaken where the Board
determines that it is in the Group’s interest to hedge a
proportion of future cash flows. Policy is to hedge up
to a maximum of 75% of the future cash flows from
the sale of Nickel and Copper looking forward over
the next 12 to 24 months. The Group has undertaken
a number of hedging contracts on Nickel and Copper
sales using outright forward contracts.
The approximate effects on the Group’s results of
a 10% movement in the 2009 financial year average
metal prices achieved for Platinum (Pt) ($1,086 per
ounce) and Rhodium (Rh) ($1,571 per ounce) would
be as follows:
Pt Rh
EBIT ± $74m ± $15m
Profit for the year ± $44m ± $9m
EPS (cents) ± 25.2c ± 5.1c
The above sensitivities are based on 2009
volumes and assume all other variables remain
constant. They are estimated calculations only. 26
Internal Controls and Risk Management
This section explains the Group’s internal control environment, how we assess its effectiveness and how we
identify, evaluate and manage risk. There is also a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the
Group, the consequences if these are not managed and the mitigations currently relied upon by management.
Internal controls
The Company complied throughout the year under review and continues to comply with the provisions of the
Combined Code on internal controls and the relevant parts of the Turnbull and Smith guidance. While the Board
has overall responsibility for the Company’s system of internal control, management is responsible for
implementing agreed Board policies. It is important to recognise that systems of internal control can only be
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and cannot
provide absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
Key features of the Company’s internal control framework, which supports the financial reporting process,
include:
• a schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s decision;
• detailed terms of reference for the Board Committees;
• a Code of Business Ethics and external whistle-blowing hotline;
• Human Resources policies which establish a consistent set of values and standards for managing
employees and contractors throughout the group;
• a document summarising the delegation of authority cascade from the Board to the various levels of Group
management;
• documented policies and procedures for certain key group-wide matters, including treasury, capital
investment, risk management, human capital and procurement, supported by local policies and procedures
as necessary;
• the Group strategy and Life of Business Plan, supported by the mineral resource database and model, and
annual technical and financial budgets;
• systems including the SAP enterprise resource planning system, a bespoke metallurgical tracking system
and a detailed mine planning system;
• management reporting against plans, budgets and forecasts;
• external audit and other assurance, including a biennial audit of mineral reserves and resources; and
• internal audit and other in-house review processes.
To ensure that the Audit and Risk Committee has full oversight of the work of the internal audit function, the
Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, with a joint reporting line to the
VP , Treasury and Risk. The Audit and Risk Committee meets regularly with both the internal and external
auditors to discuss internal control and other matters arising from the assurance process.
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial,
operational and compliance controls and systems for the identification and management of risk. This task is
carried out on behalf of the Board by the Audit and Risk Committee, which has undertaken a review of the
internal control environment following the year end. To do so, the Committee assessed the following:
• responses provided by circa eighty senior managers in management confirmation letters completed at the
end of the financial year, designed to provide assurance on the effectiveness of internal controls and
compliance with Group policies and procedures;
• a number of external parties providing assurance on different parts of the business and its control
environment;
• progress made by management in identifying and mitigating the key risks facing the Group;
• routine management reporting on business performance and results; and
• reports provided to the Audit and Risk Committee by both internal and external auditors and other specialist
advisors in relation to the Group’s risk and control environments.
Action has been, or is being, taken where necessary to address as far as practicable any significant failings
and weaknesses identified in the reviews of effectiveness of internal controls whether they are financial,
operational or compliance. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 27
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Risk management
There is an ongoing process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the
Group that has been in place throughout the year under review and to the date of approval of the accounts.
This process has been reviewed regularly by the Audit and Risk Committee on behalf of the Board, and
accords with the guidance appended to the Combined Code.
The approach taken is systematic and combines both a “top-down” and a “bottom-up” review and approval
process. All senior managers are responsible for managing and monitoring risks that could impede the
achievement of business objectives and these are recorded in a risk register. It is mandatory for this process to
take place at least once a year, but in practice a more frequent review takes place in most business areas. For
each risk identified, management also assesses the root causes, consequences and mitigating controls in
relation to the risk. An assessment is then made of the maximum risk exposure and the effectiveness of the
controls in place to mitigate that risk. A numerical scoring matrix is used to derive a risk score and priority after
taking account of mitigating controls. Where the risk score and priority remain high after mitigating controls are
taken into account, action plans are devised to reduce these risks further and progress against these plans is
regularly reviewed. Each of the business areas is supported by an Operational Risk Champion who co-ordinates
all risk management activity in that business area and ensures that actions are implemented appropriately.
Progress against action plans is also reviewed regularly by the Audit and Risk Committee and reported to
the Board.
Lonmin groups risks into strategic, financial, external and operational risks. The key risks faced by Lonmin,
based on our current understanding, along with their potential impact and the mitigation strategies developed
are detailed on the following pages. There is no implied ranking in the order of disclosure. The Company’s
strategy takes into account these known risks, but risks will exist of which we are currently unaware and the
severity or probability of the occurrence of known risks may change from time to time.
Lonmin Plc Board
Audit and Risk Committee Executive Committee
Integrated strategic, business and operational risk management
Identification & Evaluation Mitigation Reporting KPIs
Operating Units Capital Projects Support Functions 28
Internal Controls and Risk Management (continued)
Strategic Risk
Impact – Ineffective or poorly executed strategy fails to create shareholder value or fails to meet shareholder expectations.
Risk Impact Mitigation
Corporate & Social Non-delivery of our Social and Labour Social and community programmes are monitored by the
Responsibility* plan could result in the withdrawal of Executive Committee and the Safety and Sustainability
our Mining Licence. Committee. Clear KPIs set and measured on a regular basis.
Ongoing dialogue with the relevant authorities.
Failure to comply with Results in a deteriorating relationship Full engagement with the DMR in South Africa and further
Black Economic with the Department of Mineral Resources engagement with all other stakeholders to ensure compliance.
Empowerment (BEE) (DMR) in South Africa.
codes in relation
to mining e.g. failure to
achieve BEE equity
participation of 26%
by 2014
Investment and business Shareholder value not optimised. Review of strategy and financial returns at Board level on an
decisions fail to deliver annual basis. Consistent investment appraisal process applied
shareholder value to new capital spend. Opportunities have been taken to
restructure the business by stopping production of unprofitable
ounces to maximise shareholder value. A comprehensive
defence strategy is in place.
Access to a secure Could impact on the ability to run Measurement of water usage and water saving initiatives
supply of water current operations and deliver future implemented. Plans aligned with long term strategy of the
expansion plans. Company and additional water suppliers for key areas to be
secured accordingly.
Access to a secure Could impact on the ability to run Measurement of energy usage and energy saving initiatives
supply of electricity current operations and deliver future implemented. Load shed and contractual agreements in place
expansion plans. with Eskom (SA energy supplier). Continuity planning in place
and additional supply for key areas to be secured accordingly.
* see Sustainable Development Review for more detailed disclosure
Financial Risk
Impact – Asset performance and / or excessive leverage results in the Group not being able to meet its financial obligations.
Risk Impact Mitigation
Foreign exchange risk Significant fluctuations in exchange Current policy is not to hedge this currency pair. There is a long
(specifically rates to which the Group is exposed term correlation between US Dollar / SA Rand and PGM basket
US Dollar / SA Rand) could have a material adverse effect on price, although this can dislocate over the shorter term.
the Group’s future financial condition.
Commodity price risk Significant fluctuations in commodity Current policy is not to hedge PGM basket prices. There is a
prices to which the Group is exposed long term correlation between US Dollar / SA Rand and PGM
could have a material adverse effect on basket price, although this can dislocate over the shorter term.
the Group’s future financial condition. Hedging of base metals is undertaken under the remit of the
Price and Risk Committee.
Uncompetitive gross Could have a material adverse effect on High cost per ounce assets put on care and maintenance. Cost
and / or unit costs the Group’s competitive position and base tailored to fit the current environment through the recent
future financial condition. restructuring programme. Clear understanding of our competitive
position and required productivity improvement plans in place.
Access to cost The Group may not be able to obtain Tenure of debt extended. Rights Issue completed this year to
effective funding** cost effective funding when required which strengthen the balance sheet, key covenants in banking lines
could impact on the ability of the Group to constantly monitored through rolling cash flow forecasts with
meet its liabilities as they fall due. appropriate covenant waivers in place for FY10. Regular
contact with our banking group.
** see Financial Review for more detailed disclosure 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 29
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
External Risk
Impact – The political, industry or market environment may negatively impact on the Group’s ability to independently manage and
grow its business.
Risk Impact Mitigation
Changing political The occurrence of such a change could Ongoing dialogue with the relevant government at all levels and
landscape in any of the have a material adverse effect on the other key stakeholders. Effective communications programmes
countries in which we Group’s future operational performance with key stakeholders. Other PGM mining companies would
operate negatively and financial condition. face the same issue.
impacts the business
PGM supply & Significant changes to either / both the supply Gathering market information from customers and other
demand volatility and demand side in the PGM industry sources. Monitoring market segments and trends in the
(e.g. production substitution or supply side industry. Continue to support initiatives to develop existing
constraints) could have a material adverse and new markets for PGMs. Longer term volume contracts
effect on the Group’s future operational with key customers.
performance and financial condition.
Operational Risk
Impact – Operational event impacting staff, contractors, communities or the environment leading to loss of revenue and / or
reputation or increased costs.
Risk Impact Mitigation
Inadequate and / or poor Significant changes to our assessment of Bore hole sampling and seismic surveys conducted under the
quality ore reserves the quality and extent of our ore reserves supervision of specialist geologists coupled with independent
could have a material adverse effect on audits of reserves. Quality in-house technical team with multiple
the Group’s future operational performance internal review processes.
and financial condition.
Lack of long term ore Shareholder value not optimised over the Independent peer review of Long Term Plan before submission
reserve depletion planning long term. to the Board.
Lack of short term ore Could severely disrupt operations and have Technical Services functions acting independently of mine
reserve development a material adverse effect on the Group’s management located at mine shafts scrutinising flexibility and
planning financial condition. working areas. Performance measured and reported to the Board.
Recoveries throughout Could have a material adverse effect on Grade targets set and measured by assay and sampling in Mining.
operations not maximised the Group’s financial condition. In Processing, plant maintenance programmes ensure plant
stability to assist recoveries. Technical Services functions
acting independently of operational management scrutinise
management information. Experienced management teams
and clear benchmarks set.
Inadequate backup Could severely disrupt operations and have Pyromets provide an element of back-up capacity. Spare
smelting capacity a material adverse effect on the Group’s capacity in No. 1 furnace currently gives ability to catch up.
financial condition. Re-design of No. 1 furnace includes improved monitoring and
fault detection technology. Study initiated into how this risk
could be further mitigated.
Major fault on key Could severely disrupt operations and have Plant maintenance programmes coupled with an on-site stock
piece of equipment a material adverse effect on the Group’s of critical spares.
financial condition.
Contamination and / or Could lead to health concerns in local Emissions monitored by regular sampling. Scrubber systems
emissions impacting on communities, withdrawal of relevant in place. Long term disposal strategy for calcium sulphite
the surrounding licences and potential litigation. established. Re-lining of tailings dams to prevent groundwater
environment and pollution.
communities
Fraud and / or theft Could have a material adverse effect on Fraud awareness training and security reviews supported by a
of product the Group’s financial condition. code of ethics and whistle blowing programme. Security and
Investigations department operations in key areas on the business.
Failure of safety routines Could put lives at risk, severely disrupt Safety & Sustainability Committee oversees all safety matters.
and / or safety strategy operations and have a material adverse Safety standards set and monitored regularly throughout the
effect on the Group’s financial condition. Company. Clearly defined safety protocols including Safe
Behaviour Observations. Plant maintenance programmes
supported by critical spares inventory. Regular independent
safety audits and inspections by the DMR.
Deteriorating industrial Could severely disrupt operations and Full engagement strategy with the unions and employees
relations and / or union have a material adverse effect on the supported by our other external relationships.
disruption Group’s financial condition.
Failure of internal Could severely disrupt operations and Clear organisational structure with appropriate segregation of
controls have a material adverse effect on the duties. Independent internal and external audits with follow up
Group’s financial condition. of outstanding action points. 30
0
05 06 07 08 09
1,000
800
400
200
600
910
940
794
727
683
Ounces (000’s)
Financial year
0
05 06 07
1,000
800
400
200
600
362
830
796
963
(93)
09 08
$m
Financial year
-300
400
300
0
-200
-100
100
200
56
290
380
264
(271)
05 06 07 08 09
US$m
Financial year
Sales – platinum ounces sold.
Platinum ounces sold are those ounces we produce either
as refined ounces or recoverable ounces sold in concentrate.
Underlying EBIT (Earnings Before Interest and Taxation).
For any business the ultimate aim is to grow underlying EBIT
and deliver value to shareholders. We track our performance by
looking at our EBIT from continuing operations. Underlying EBIT
is calculated on profit for the year and excludes the effect of
one-off and non-trading items.
Free cash flow.
We believe that a key metric of how successful we are as a
business is ultimately the amount of cash we generate before
dividends and acquisitions.
Key Performance Indicators 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 31
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
0
05 06 07 08 09
7,000
5,600
2,800
1,400
4,200
2,541
3,057
4,168
6,271
6,630
Rand per PGM oz produced
Financial year
0
06 07 08 09
3.0
2.4
1.2
0.6
1.8
2.5
2.0
1.7
2.0*
Centares (000,000’s)
Financial year
0
05 06 07 08 09
20
16
8
4
12
18.10
12.50
10.80
6.27 6.21
Per million hours worked
Financial year
Lonmin Costs – C1 costs of own production.
Cost per unit is key to allowing us to operate profitably for far longer
through any down cycle. C1 costs are defined as cash operating
costs per PGM ounce produced.
Development – Immediately Available Ore Reserves.
We have placed a renewed focus on mine development, using
a metric of immediately available ore reserves in square metres
or centares.
* (We have changed our reporting methodology for ore reserve development, in
line with industry best practice, to exclude partially developed ore reserves. We
have reported on this more conservative basis for FY09 and will continue to do
so going forward. FY08 and prior years are not re-stated).
Safety – Lost Time Injury Frequency rate per million man
hours worked.
As a company we are committed to Zero Harm to our employees
and contractors. We also regard safety performance as a lead
indicator of the health of any business. Lost time injury frequency
rate is measured per million man hours worked and reflects all
injuries sustained by employees which mean that the injured party
is unable to return to work on the next shift.
0
05 06 07 08 09
6.0
4.8
2.4
1.2
3.6
3.50
4.10
5.03
4.80
5.22
Gigajoules per PGM oz
Financial year
Electricity efficiency.
We continue to closely monitor and measure our electricity usage
and efficency. We are running a number of initiatives across our
operations to ensure energy efficiency levels are improved. 32
Sustainable Development Review
GIVEN ITS IMPACT ON DIVERSE AUDIENCES, SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT IS OF CRITICAL IMPORTANCE TO LONMIN,
OUR EMPLOYEES, THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE
AND OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS.
Sustainable development is of critical importance to
Lonmin, our employees, the communities in which we
operate, and our key stakeholders, given its impact
on these diverse audiences. We remain committed
to reporting on the progress of our sustainable
development performance. In this section of the 2009
Annual Report and Accounts, we publish a summary
of sustainable development performance during the
year, focusing on our key sustainable development
risks:
• The global economic downturn;
• Fatalities, serious injuries and unsafe behaviour;
• Empowering Historically Disadvantaged South
Africans (HDSA’s);
• Skilled work force;
• Housing of our employees;
• Noise Induced Hearing Loss (NIHL);
• HIV / AIDS and tuberculosis;
• Water resources;
• Energy resources;
• Minimising closure costs and environmental risks
through integrated environmental management
and closure planning;
• Stakeholder engagement; and
• Local economic development.
This summary is derived from our more detailed
Web-based Sustainable Development Report, located
on our website, www.lonmin.com, which provides
in-depth information including details on our
sustainable development strategy and profile,
management approach, performance and case
studies. The Web-based Sustainable Development
Report contains all the disclosures required in line
with the various sustainability reporting criteria and
includes an assurance statement by KPMG. www.lonmin.com 33
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
Governance of Sustainable Development
THE BOARD OF LONMIN IS COMMITTED TO ACHIEVING AND
MAINTAINING THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE AND TO UPHOLDING ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES.
WE BELIEVE THAT THIS HELPS CREATE THE BUSINESS INTEGRITY
NEEDED TO DELIVER ROBUST AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS RESULTS.
The Board has a Safety and Sustainability Committee,
which is charged with monitoring the Company’s
performance in this area. Full details of its activities
are reported on pages 69 to 72.
Our commitments and policies
The governance of the Company is underpinned by
the values set out in the Lonmin Charter and our
commitments in terms of sustainable development
are defined in the Lonmin Safety and Sustainable
Development Policy. As a member of the International
Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the United
Nations Global Compact (UNGC), their principles
have been integral to the development of our
sustainable development approach.
Implementation of our commitments and policies
The Lonmin Charter and the Lonmin Safety and
Sustainable Development Policy set out our goals
and values, and make certain high-level commitments.
These are implemented through Safety and Sustainable
Development Management Standards, which outline
the minimum operating requirements for the Company
and drive us to deliver on policy commitments in a
methodical and consistent way. They are aligned with
the requirements of South African National Standards
and relevant international standards, particularly
ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001.
Management systems
Our management systems are designed to help us
manage the business in a systematic and controlled
way, with the aim of delivering robust, consistent and
sustainable business performance in all areas,
including safety and sustainability.
The business faces risk, the successful
management of which enables us to create a return
on investment for our shareholders. However, we can
never operate in a risk-free way and among the key
constituents of our management system are risk
management and incident reporting and investigation
processes, under which operational management are
responsible for reporting, rating and investigating
incidents. We have adopted an industry-standard
rating scale which grades incident severity, and use
the Incident Cause Analysis Method to investigate
incidents which are rated as level three (equating to
the loss of a limb) to level five (this would equate to
multiple fatalities). The aim is to identify root causes
and appropriate corrective and preventative actions.
The outcomes of all level three and higher investigations
are presented to the Executive Committee and the
Safety and Sustainability Committee of the Board.
In 2009, all our operations remained ISO 14001
certified, other than the Assay Laboratory whose
certification has expired, although we expect this to
be reinstated by December 2009. The PMR and the
Training Academy are ISO 9001 certified. We intend
to achieve OHSAS 18001 certification of our
management systems by 2011.
Auditing and assurance
The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board approves
the annual Company-wide internal and external audit
plan. Audit findings are updated regularly and progress
on mitigation plans is reviewed by the Executive
Committee on a monthly basis and regularly by the
Audit and Risk Committee. External auditing of ISO
14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 management
systems, and our Environmental Management
Programme Reports (which form part of the annual
external Environmental Performance Assessment
audits) are used to drive continuous improvement.
We engage assurance providers who are
independent from the Company, have the necessary
individual and organisational competence and
operate in line with best practice guidelines. External
assurance is provided on selected data in this report,
the alignment of our policies and business practices
with the ICMM principles and our reporting against
the Global Reporting Initiative’s 2006 Sustainability
Reporting Guidelines (GRI) reporting principles. In
preparation for this report, we have conducted an
internal audit on selected key sustainability indicators. 34
External organisations and public policy positions
We are proud to be included in the FTSE4 Good
Index and Johannesburg Stock Exchange Responsible
Investment Index. We engage in external groups
where we believe this will assist our performance or
enable us to influence policy or decision making at
national and international levels. The key groups in
which we participate are:
• ICMM – we have been members of the ICMM
since 2004 and continue to value our membership.
This is a CEO-led organisation representing
leading international mining and metals companies.
As a voluntary member of the ICMM, we support
their vision for the mining and metals industry
being respected, widely recognised as essential
for modern living and a key contributor to
sustainable development. Through our ICMM
participation we also implicitly endorse the
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative; and
• UNGC – we remain a signatory to the UNGC and
continue to support the principles of this voluntary
initiative, which require us to align our operations
and strategies with ten universally accepted
principles in the areas of human rights, labour,
environment and anti-corruption.
We are also members of and participate in the
International Platinum Association, International
Chamber of Commerce, South African Chamber of
Mines, the Institute of Business Ethics and a number
of forums in a local context applicable to our
individual operations. We continue to participate in
the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Stakeholder engagement and reporting
We view our stakeholders as those individuals,
communities or groups that influence our operations
or are affected by our existence. Identifying and
responding to stakeholders’ expectations and
incorporating their feedback into our decision-making
processes is an important strategic commitment.
Our approach to engagement varies with the nature
of the stakeholder and the specific matters at hand,
ranging from legally-mandated formal engagement
to ad hoc informal meetings. We engage actively
with those directly affected by our operations, either
through the nature of our business or through proximity
to our locations, and with those stakeholders who
demonstrate an interest in our business. Our aim is
to improve relations by understanding stakeholders’
perspectives and expectations and then
communicating our vision, strategies and plans,
explaining how these have been influenced by
previous feedback.
Governance of Sustainable Development (continued) www.lonmin.com 35
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
“A ROBUST LIFE OF MINE PLAN IS CRITICAL IN
MAXIMISING THE VALUE OF OUR ASSET BASE”
Bernabé Kloppers
Case Study: Planning Project Team
– A multi-disciplined team, consisting of geologists, mining and engineering specialists,
metallurgists and financial analysts
Bernabé Kloppers
Planning Systems Manager, Mining Engineering
Centre of Excellence
Building and maintaining a robust Life of Mine Plan, based on
current mining projects, planned capital programmes and future
concept studies, is vital in laying the foundations for the future
success of the business. In collaboration with the various
disciplines across the business, we have modelled and analysed a
multitude of scenarios, using the Lonmin economic model for each
operating asset, including different mining methods and various
recovery rate and pricing sensitivities. This has helped us to
understand what impact each scenario would have on the Plan,
and ultimately on the value of our asset base and future cashflows.
At K4 shaft, for example, a significant building block in our future
growth profile, we worked with the Planning Project team to
enhance the value of the asset by seeking to achieve optimal future
production whilst maintaining the planned low cost profile of the
shaft. Simultaneously, we modelled scenarios with the Process
Division team regarding the right balance of ore hoisted from the
shaft needed to achieve an optimal mix for downstream processing
once the shaft reaches full production. At steady state, K4 will
contribute around 20% of our total Marikana production, so it is
clearly vital that the planning and modelling supporting the
development of the shaft are accurate and robust. 36
Summary of our Performance
against our Targets
WE ARE COMMITTED TO CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT
IN OUR PERFORMANCE THROUGH A FRAMEWORK
OF SETTING AND REVIEWING OUR POLICIES,
OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS.
1 The target of 50% stated in the 2008 Web-based Sustainable Development Report was incorrect and has been rectified to 60% by 2009.






The table below summarises our performance against our key targets and outlines our targets going forward, with ‘ ’ indicating
not achieved and ‘’ indicating achieved.
Issue Progress Targets for 2009 and beyond Performance and additional targets
Human capital We will comply with the principles embodied in the In 2009, there has been no reported
United Nations Declaration for Human Rights incident of violation of the principles.
(recurring target).
We will increase the literacy rate of our employees We have increased the literacy rate
to 50% by 2009. of our employees to 47%. We will aim
to improve the literacy rates of our
employees by 2% in 2010 based on our
performance in 2009.
We will ensure that 40% of senior and middle In 2009, 41.3% of senior and middle
management comprise employees from management comprised employees from
designated groups by 2009. designated groups. We will increase the
participation of employees from designated
groups within senior and middle
management to 53% by 2014.
Not on track We will increase women in mining to 10% by 2012. In 2009, we have increased the number
of female employees at the mine to 6.8%
and have increased the number of women
in mining to 2.9%. Although we were not
on track to achieve our targets in 2009,
we have implemented initiatives to enhance
the participation of women in our workforce
and thus believe that we will achieve our
targets in 2012. We will increase female
participation at the mine to 11.6% in 2012.
Procurement We will increase our total discretionary spend with In 2009, we have increased our total
HDSA suppliers to 60%
1
by 2009. discretionary spend with HDSA suppliers
to 66.6%. We aim to maintain at least
65% of our total discretionary spend
with HDSA suppliers by 2012.
On track We will have 63% of our total discretionary
spend with HDSA suppliers by 2010.
Safety We will achieve zero fatalities at our In 2009, regrettably three fatalities
operations each year. occurred at our operations.
We will improve our LTIFR by 15% by As at the end of September 2009,
30 September 2009 (baseline year 2008). we have improved our LTIFR by 0.96%.
We will improve our LTIFR by 10% by
30 September 2010 (baseline year 2009). 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 37
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Issue Progress Targets for 2009 and beyond Performance and additional targets
Health We will increase participation of patients in our In 2009, the participation of patients in
wellness programme by 20% by 2009. our wellness programme decreased by
51%, this partially being attributed to the
restructuring and reorganisational process
that was undertaken in 2009, with 17% of
patients exiting as a result of restructuring,
28% defaulting from the programme and
6% commencing with ART. We aim to
increase participation of patients in our
wellness programme by 20% in 2010
(2009 baseline year).
We will train one workplace peer educator for In 2009, we have one trained workplace
every 75 employees by 2009. peer educator for every 71 employees.
In 2010, we aim to maintain one active
workplace peer educator for every
75 employees.
We will reduce our number of new NIHL cases In 2009, we have reduced our new
by 30% by 2009 (2008 baseline year). diagnosed NIHL cases by 80.9% from our
2008 baseline year. We will reduce our
number of new NIHL cases by 10%
in 2010 (2009 baseline year).
All operations to implement a baseline survey on All operations have implemented baseline
occupational exposure hazards and establish surveys on occupational exposure
occupational hygiene monitoring and health hazards and have established
surveillance programmes by 2009. occupational hygiene monitoring and
health surveillance programmes.
Environment On track We will reduce our aggregate fresh water intake We have reduced our aggregate fresh
by 15% per unit of production (2007 baseline year) water intake by 12.16% per unit of
by 2012. production since 2007.
Not on track We will reduce our aggregate energy consumption We have increased our aggregate energy
per unit of production by 10% by 2012, thereby consumption by 3.77% per unit of
reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 5% production and our greenhouse gas
(2007 baseline year). emissions by 10.32% per unit of
production since 2007.
On track We will reduce our quantities of waste disposed We have increased our quantities of waste
of to landfill by 15% (2008 baseline year) by 2012. disposed of to landfill by 23.4% since 2008.
This increase can be attributed to the
increased disposal of calcium sulphite at
landfill until such a time that alternative
disposal options are implemented.
Excluding the contribution of calcium
sulphite, we have reduced our waste
disposal to landfill by 2% in 2009.
Housing We will convert five hostel complexes into bachelor We remain committed to the ultimate
and / or family accommodation in 2010. construction of 5,500 houses within
the GLC. However due to financial
constraints the target date for completion
of these houses is under review
and will be discussed with the
Department of Mineral Resources.
Community We will spend 41% of our five year financial We have spent 41.1% of our five year
commitments on local economic development financial commitments on local economic
projects as per the Social and Labour Plan development projects as per the Social
by 2009. and Labour Plan. We aim to spend 58%
of our five year financial commitments on
local economic development projects as
per the Social and Labour Plan by 2010.




 38
“WE ARE TAKING A PARTNERSHIP APPROACH
IN SUPPORTING OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS”
Minah Yalezo
Case Study: External Affairs team
– Rekopane Development Forum established to ensure better collaboration between stakeholders
Minah Yalezo
External Affairs Consultant
In recent years, we have introduced a number of programmes
to support our key stakeholders, including traditional
authorities, local government and organised labour. These
programmes include the development of communication
channels between Lonmin and these stakeholders, the provision
of educational and health services to local communities and
the facilitation of infrastructure support to those lacking the
necessary administrative resources. These programmes are run
in partnership with other related stakeholders – a good
example of this approach is the Rekopane Development
Forum, established by Lonmin, in conjunction with the
International Finance Corporation, last year. We invited a
number of stakeholders to the forum, including traditional
authorities, local government, organised labour and other
mining companies, with a view to creating a platform to ensure
improved stakeholder collaboration on local community
development projects. Our objectives included collaborative
project planning and mapping, information gathering and
sharing around new possible projects, and regular
identification of potential future areas of collaboration. The
forum is starting to make progress in establishing a strong
multi-stakeholder platform for collaboration – since its
establishment, members of the forum are now co-ordinating
and implementing 24 collaborative development projects. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 39
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Economic
DESPITE THE IMPACT OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC DOWNTURN ON
OUR FINANCIAL FLEXIBILITY, WE HAVE NOT DEVIATED FROM OUR
BELIEF IN THE BUSINESS CASE FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
AND THE ASSOCIATED BUSINESS BENEFITS.
In 2009, Lonmin’s profitability and cashflows were
negatively impacted by the global economic
downturn. Consequently, management initiated a
major restructuring programme during the year,
resulting in the voluntary separation and forced
retrenchments of employees. This impacted our
progress towards increasing the number of HDSA
and female employees within the Company and
retaining key skills within the workforce. Furthermore,
due to the adverse change in our financial situation,
we will not achieve our targets to construct houses
and undertake hostel conversions by 2011.
Additionally, the completion deadlines for a
number of environmental and social projects have
been extended in an attempt to reduce operational
expenditure. However, we have taken steps to ensure
that this will not have a material impact on the
business, our compliance or effect on the
environment or communities where we operate.
Despite the impact of the global economic
downturn on our financial flexibility, we have not
deviated from our belief in the business case for
sustainable development and the associated business
benefits. Furthermore, we remain fully committed to
the values of our Charter and our commitments within
the Safety and Sustainable Development Policy.
Further information on the effect of the economic
downturn on each of these sustainable development
aspects have been provided within the body of this
report. 40
Safety
WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO THE SAFETY AND WELLBEING OF
OUR EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS. WE AIM TO MAINTAIN
OUR STRONG CULTURE OF SAFE BEHAVIOUR, WITH ZERO HARM
TO OUR EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS BEING A CORE VALUE
OF THE BUSINESS.
Safety remains a major risk factor and mitigating the
risk of fatalities and serious injuries at our operations
resulting from fall of ground, use of track bound
mobile equipment, scraping and rigging remain key
areas of focus.
Our approach to safety is based on a number of
key standards, implemented across our property,
including:
• Visible leadership: which is crucial to our success
in safety and a powerful aid in creating an
interdependent safety culture;
• Safe behaviour observations: are carried out as a
lead indicator to our safety performance and we
conduct continuous risk assessments to minimise
unsafe behaviour or situations;
• Safety training and awareness campaigns: form an
important component of our safety management
systems;
• Incident Cause Analysis Method: through which
we investigate incidents and near-miss incidents,
with the objective of root causes being identified
and preventative actions taken. Findings from
these incidents are critical to our efforts in
eliminating fatalities and are communicated
across our operations; and
• Incident reporting: we report safety incidents
to the Department of Mineral Resources as
required by the Mine Health and Safety Act 29
of 1996, which is aligned with the International
Labour Organisation’s Code of Practice on
Recording and Notification of Occupational
Accidents and Diseases. We remain committed
to achieving OHSAS 18001 certification for all
our operations by 2011.
Through the implementation of these standards,
we continually strive to eliminate fatalities, reduce
injuries and near miss incidents, encourage positive
behaviour and enhance our training and awareness
programmes. The impact of our safety programmes,
management and leadership on our performance is
reflected by the number of fatalities, LTIFR and
severity rate, as key safety performance indicators.
Work related fatalities in 2009
It is with regret that we report the death of three of
our employees during 2009 as a result of fatal injuries
sustained from the following incidents:
• Mr Mantelana Mvela succumbed to his injuries
on 16 February 2009 as a result of a collision
involving a loaded locomotive with a stationary
locomotive at K3 Shaft at our Marikana operations;
• Mr Lorenzo Joseppe Myburgh succumbed to his
injuries on 10 March 2009 as a result of being in
contact with an unguarded electricity cable
resulting in an electrical flash and subsequent
burn wounds to his body at K4 Shaft at our
Marikana operations; and
• Mr Clement Tshidiso Motlotla succumbed to his
injuries on 15 July 2009 as a result of a fall of
ground at K3 Shaft at our Marikana operations.
We extend our sincere condolences to the families
and friends of these three men.
In 2009, our Company wide fatality frequency rate
amounted to 0.04, which is the equivalent of our
2008 rate and is aligned with international trends as
determined and monitored by the Department of
Mineral Resources. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 41
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Lost Time Injuries
The Company completed a restructuring programme
across our operations resulting in the reduction of our
workforce by approximately 20%. This exercise
inevitably impacted employee morale and created a
significant distraction amongst the organisation. The
reduction in headcount occurred mainly in ‘low safety
risk’ areas and hence there was no real reduction in
the number of employees in the “higher risk” areas
of the organisation, such as the working faces. While
the actual number of LTIs reduced by 7.8%, the
significant reduction in the total number of employees
and therefore man hours worked affected the
calculation of LTIFR, which consequently only showed
a reduction of 0.96% from our 2008 rate of 6.27 to
a rate of 6.21. The severity rate for 2009 was 249.1,
a 28% increase from the previous year. In 2009,
33% of our LTIs were as a result of material handling,
followed by 15% as a result of fall of ground. In 2010,
we are committed to reducing our LTIFR by 10%
from our 2009 baseline.
Notifications in terms of the Mine Health and
Safety Act 29 of 1996
In 2009, we were issued with 35 notifications in
relation to the Mine Health and Safety Act 29 of 1996,
including section 54 notifications of the Act. These
notifications are evidence of a stance by the
government on safety in the mining industry,
which we support.
Awards
In 2009, we were acknowledged by the Association
of Mine Managers of South Africa for our leading
industry safety performance. In June 2009, the
association issued seven awards, of which the
Company won four, as follows:
• Four million fatality free shifts was awarded to
Lonmin Marikana;
• Three million fatality free shifts was awarded to
4 Belt Shaft;
• Three million fatality free shifts was awarded to
K3 Shaft (UG2 section); and
• Three million fatality free shifts was awarded to
East 1 Shaft.
During the year we were also recognised for our
leading safety practice with regards to zero harm and
K3 Shaft and Rowland Shaft were acknowledged for
two million fatality free shifts and E2 Shaft for one
million fatality free shifts.
0
05 06 07 08
Fatalities
Financial year
LTIFR
09
20
8
6
4
2
16
14
18
12
10
0
7
4
2
6
3
1
5
Incidents per million
hours worked
Number of fatalities
LTIFR and fatalities in 2009 42
Our Employees
WE ARE SUCCESSFUL WHEN OUR EMPLOYEES LIVE AND WORK
SAFELY AND EXPERIENCE THE PERSONAL SATISFACTION THAT
COMES WITH HIGH PERFORMANCE AND RECOGNITION.
In November 2008, given the impact of the global
economic downturn on our profitability and
cashflows, we commenced a major restructuring
and reorganisation programme across the business.
Consultation with the recognised trade unions and
the relevant government authorities was extensive
and encompassed the identification of areas of
improvement and cost saving initiatives, with the
consideration of compulsory retrenchment of
employees as a last option. The restructuring
programme was undertaken as prescribed by the
Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995 and in accordance
with the Restructuring Framework Agreements as
approved by trade unions in respect of Marikana,
Akanani and our Limpopo operations. In 2009,
3,427 voluntary separation applications were approved,
258 employees were successfully redeployed and
306 employees were affected by compulsory
retrenchments.
The empowerment of designated groups, the
retention of a skilled workforce and the provision of
affordable housing to our employees remain our key
sustainable development focus areas. Designated
groups refers to persons, disadvantaged by unfair
discrimination before the Constitution of the Republic
of South Africa Act 200 of 1993, came into operation.
The definition of designated groups includes
employees who are disabled, women or employees
classified as African, Asian or Coloured and who have
South African citizenship status and who are based
in South Africa.
Empowering Historically Disadvantaged
South Africans
We remain committed to implementing the principle
of equal opportunity and employment equity while
maintaining an appropriately skilled and diverse
workforce. In line with the Constitution of South
Africa, the legislative requirements and our Charter,
we are committed to providing the necessary
resources to deliver the requirements of the South
African Broad-based Socio-economic Mining Charter.
Ownership and joint ventures
The Mining Charter of South Africa requires that at
least 15% of the equity of mining companies (or
equivalent units of production) must be owned by
HDSAs at May 2009, and at least 26% by May 2014.
Incwala Resources (Proprietary) Limited is a South
African registered company specifically incorporated
for the purposes of enabling broad-based equity
participation by HDSAs in Lonmin. Incwala has an
18% holding in the share capital of our Marikana and
Limpopo operations and a 26% stake in our Akanani
project. Our other business partners include
Mvelaphanda Resources, which own 7.5% of the
Pandora Joint Venture and 50% of the Dwaalkop
Joint Venture; and the Bapo Ba Mogale Mining
Company which owns 7.5% of the Pandora Joint
Venture. During the year, discussions commenced
regarding the future ownership of Incwala Resources
Pty Limited involving the HDSA shareholders of
Incwala Resources Pty Limited and their providers
of finance and Lonmin.
Preferential procurement
We continue to work towards enhancing the
participation of HDSA companies in the procurement
chains of our operations, in terms of goods, services
and consumables. As part of our Social and Labour
Plan, we have set targets to increase our total
procurement spend with HDSA suppliers to 60% by
2009 and to 63% by 2010. In 2009, we achieved and
exceeded our target for the year with a 66.6% HDSA
procurement spend. In 2009, our HDSA procurement
spend was US$523 million and our spend from 2007
totals US$1,310 million. Our procurement strategy
targets HDSA companies and where this is not
possible, we encourage existing suppliers to form
partnerships with HDSA companies. Aligned with our
vision to create stable and economically independent
communities, we are also focusing on developing
supplier opportunities for local HDSA community
members residing in the greater Lonmin community
(GLC), a term referring to communities situated within
a 15 kilometre radius of our operations.
Employment equity
We promote the participation and development of
employees from designated groups within our
workforce. In 2009, as a result of the restructuring
programme completed during the year and the results
of an audit which was undertaken by the Department
of Labour, our employment equity plan has been
revised with the targets from the plan and from the
Social and Labour Plan as follows:
• 53% participation in management by designated
groups by 2014; and
• 10% of women in mining (at our core mining and
processing operations and applicable to certain
employment categories) by 2012 and 11.6% of
women at the mine Company wide by 2010. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 43
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Designated groups
In 2009, 41.3% of our management employees
comprised employees from designated groups, ahead
of our target of 40% by 2009. Additionally a number
of initiatives have been taken in 2009 to manage and
expedite our performance
Employment of women
We are committed to the employment of women at
our operations, retaining current female employees
and to creating a culture that empowers women in
the workforce. We have not achieved our 2009
targets of female participation in the Company. We
have 6.8% women at the mine and 2.9% women in
mining at our operations. In 2009, 268 women exited
the Company, primarily as a result of voluntary
separation relating to the restructuring programme.
Although we have not reached our target for the
employment of women at the Company, we have
made progress in our attraction and retention
programmes focused on the employment of women
in the last few years. Since 2007, there has been a
46% increase in the number of women employed by
the Company and a total of 15 projects have been
implemented to expedite the employment of women
in the Company.
Disabled persons
In 2009, 0.6% of our workforce comprised people
with disabilities, which is equivalent to 2008. In 2009,
we have further refurbished facilities to cater for
disabled employees.
Attracting and Retaining a skilled Workforce
Impact of restructuring programme on employee
numbers
As at 30 September 2009, we employed a total of
21,623 employees, a reduction of 16.7% from 2008,
as a result of the restructuring programme. Additionally,
as at 30 September 2009, a total number of 10,497
contractor personnel were registered on our database.
Due to improvements in data capturing systems,
our contractor figures in 2009, includes all contractor
personnel registered on our database, including ad
hoc contractors, external consultants, labour brokers,
service providers and volume contractors. In previous
years, a portion of these personnel were not
registered on our database.
Retaining our employees
We are committed to retaining employees with talent,
those who deliver high performance and especially
HDSA employees in management positions. In 2009,
as a result of the restructuring programme, the
Company’s net labour loss was 4,121, a significant
decrease in labour from levels prevailing in 2007
and 2008.
0
05 06 07 08
Target Actual
Financial year
09 10 11 12 13 14
60
40
30
20
10
50
Percentage
Percentage employees from designated groups in management
0
06 07 08 09
Target Revised employment
equity target
Actual
10 11 12
16
8
6
4
2
10
12
14
%
Financial year
Percentage women at the mine 44
Our Employees (continued)
Group labour turnover (permanent employees)
2009 2008 2007 2006
New recruits 1,136 3,815 2,831 1,424
Resignations (322) (506) (471) (363)
Deaths
(not work related) (208) (223) (237) (231)
Dismissals (942) (780) (956) (887)
Retirements (52) (126) (147) (80)
Retrenchments (3,733) (2) (15) (133)
Net gain / loss (4,121) 1,729 1,005 (270)
Employee development
We have extensive employee development
programmes in place encompassing both personal
and professional development requirements, including
talent management and extensive training programmes.
All supervisors, management and professionally
qualified employees are subject to an annual
performance review process that guides performance
management and identifies employee development
areas. In 2009, this accounted for 1,367 or 6.3% of
our employees of whom 46.5% were employees from
designated groups. Career development plans are
reviewed annually and are based on career pathways
for various disciplines, outlining qualifications and
experience required for employees to progress in their
chosen careers. To date, 6.3% of employees have
completed this process.
In 2009, 47% of our employees were considered
functionally literate and numerate, thus not achieving
our target of 50%. In 2010, we aim to increase the
functional literate and numerate rate by 2%. In 2009,
667 full time employees, 60 community members,
173 contractors and 299 part time employees
attended ABET courses and 28 supervisors
successfully completed the Front Line Supervisory
Development Programme. In 2009, transition training
programmes, focusing on portable skills have proven
to be successful, with 1,658 exit employees registering
for the training. The training has been made available
to all employees who exit the Company due to
retrenchments. In 2009, US$9.3 million was spent
on training Company wide.
Employee engagement
Employee engagement continues to be a key focus
for the Group. Employees are kept well informed of
the performance and objectives of the Group through
team briefings, consultation with union representatives,
weekly bulletins from the Chief Operating Officer, all
of which is supplemented by local communications
on a shaft and plant specific basis. In addition, the
Company operates an internal television network
at our K3 Shaft, reaching a target audience of
approximately 5,000 of our employees.
Availability and Affordability of Housing for our
Employees
Our approach to housing is centred around the
delivery of affordable houses which impact positively
on our employees’ quality of life in terms of reuniting
employees with their families, enhanced security and
providing sustainable community living.
In recognition of the shortage of available and
affordable housing and the social imbalances that the
legacies of single sex hostels pose, we have committed
to addressing these shortfalls through the conversion
of all our 114 hostel blocks into family and bachelor
accommodation and the construction of 5,500 houses
within the GLC.
Marikana hostel conversions
Hostels are not an acceptable form of accommodation
for our employees, and we have therefore made a
commitment that no employee of the Company will
reside in hostels in the future. No new hostels will be
constructed and in terms of existing hostels, we are
committed to converting all our 114 single sex hostel
complexes into 1,500 family and / or bachelor
accommodation units for category 3-8 employees.
Given the impact of the global economic downturn on
our financial flexibility, our target to convert all existing
hostels by 2011 will not be achieved. This target is in
the process of being reviewed with the Department
of Mineral Resources. To date, phase one of the
conversions has been completed by a consortium
of GLC women contractors, with a total of 29 hostels
converted into 412 bachelor or family accommodation
units at a total cost of US$5.6 million. In 2010, we
expect to recommence our hostel conversion
programme.
Marikana housing
We remain committed to the ultimate construction
of 5,500 houses within the GLC. However, due to
financial constraints, the target date for the completion
of these houses by 2011 will not be achieved.
Although the target is under review and will be
discussed with the Department of Mineral Resources,
it is expected that the rate of construction of these
houses will be based on employee demand for home
ownership. In 2009, show houses of varying designs
were constructed and will be exhibited to potential
home owners and other stakeholders. In March 2009,
the Marikana Housing Development Corporation, a
Lonmin Group company passed a resolution to sell
the 1,149 houses owned by the Corporation to legal
occupants of the houses. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 45
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Health
WE ARE COMMITTED TO HONOURING OUR HEALTH AND SAFETY
VALUES AND SUSTAINING AN ENVIRONMENT THAT PROMOTES THE
SAFETY, HEALTH AND WELLBEING OF OUR EMPLOYEES AND THEIR
FAMILIES, CONTRACTORS AND THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE.
The health and well-being of our employees and the
communities where we operate is an integral part
of our success as a Company, and one of the
cornerstones of our strategy.
In 2009, we implemented a baseline survey on
occupational health hazards and used this to refine
our occupational hygiene monitoring and health
surveillance programmes. We continue to assess
and monitor exposure to occupational diseases such
as pneumoconiosis, occupational asthma, silicosis,
occupational dermatitis and platinosis and these
incidents within our workforce remain low. The
principal employee health risks remain NIHL,
HIV / AIDS and tuberculosis.
Eliminating Noise Induced Hearing Loss
In common with the rest of the platinum mining industry,
NIHL is one of the most significant occupational
health risks faced by our employees and contractors,
having far reaching effects on the quality of life of
those affected.
By the very nature of mining operations,
employees and contractors are exposed to high
levels of noise, but we have committed to eliminating
exposure to noise levels exceeding 85 decibels
(dB(A)). Our current focus is to reduce noise levels in
the work place through engineering interventions and
to better utilise personal protective equipment. More
specifically:
• We continued to address equipment noise levels
exceeding 110dB(A). As a first step, we identified
the equipment generating the most noise, and
assessed the potential of noise reduction through
re-engineering or sourcing alternative equipment,
taking into consideration factors of efficiency,
practicality, costs and reliability. During the year
we completed the research and development
associated with fitting silencers to stoping rock
drills, purchased 4,000 silencers at a cost of circa
US$450,000 and will complete the fitting of these
to the drills by December 2009; and
• We continued our extensive area noise and
personal noise exposure monitoring programmes.
Hearing protection devices are mandatory in work
places with noise levels exceeding 85dB(A), which
are clearly demarcated. Our approach to training
and awareness is geared towards changing the
behaviour of each employee and instilling a
culture of responsibility for their own health, and
we offer our employees and contractors custom
fit hearing protection devices. All employees and
contractors exposed to noise risk are screened
annually to allow early detection of hearing loss.
In 2009, we initiated six monthly checks on
selected high risk employees so as to further
enhance the early detection of hearing loss. We
have management systems in place to enable us
to understand the relationships between each
employee’s exposure levels, health records and
employment history, thus assisting with diagnosis
and treatment.
We have achieved our target of reducing our
number of new NIHL cases by 30% by September
2009. In 2009 we reduced our number of new
diagnosed and submitted cases with NIHL from 236
in 2008 to 45 in 2009 this representing an 80.9%
reduction in cases diagnosed with NIHL. The total
number of cases compensated in 2009 amounts to
45, including outstanding cases from previous years,
which is a 80.4% decrease from 2008. Seven cases
from 2009 are pending qualification by Rand Mutual.
Managing HIV / AIDS in the Workplace and in the
Greater Lonmin Communities
HIV / AIDS is a serious and debilitating condition that
has widespread social and economic consequences
across South Africa and in the communities where
we operate which we term the ‘Greater Lonmin
Community’ (GLC). We estimate that about one
in five of our workforce is HIV positive, which is
potentially a serious risk to our business.
We continue to respond to the HIV / AIDS epidemic
in a responsible, non-discriminatory and supportive
manner with the aim of minimising the social and
economic implications within our business and within
the GLC. Our strategic approach to managing HIV /
AIDS is two-fold, prevention and treatment of the
0
05 06 07 08 09
600
500
300
200
100
400
Financial year
Number
Number of NIHL cases compensated 46
disease. In 2009 we continued our partnership with
global mining companies to finance the research and
development of a new HIV therapeutic vaccine,
VIR 201, which is in stage three of research and
development.
Free education, awareness and testing
programmes are in place across the Company in
an effort to prevent the spread of the disease, to
address the associated social stigma and to provide
employees with sensitive, accurate and up to date
information. These programmes are implemented
through Voluntary Counselling and Testing (VCT),
mine induction programmes and ongoing awareness
campaigns by peer educators. In 2009, 4,680 of our
employees participated in our VCT programmes, of
whom 13% were tested as HIV positive. To date, we
have 380 trained peer educators for the workforce,
one for every 71 employees which exceeds our target
of one peer educator for every 75 employees. In 2009,
206 active peer educators held 4,008 education
sessions and numerous one on one meetings reaching
over 78,000 people. In addition to our robust
workplace programme we have intensive community
testing, prevention and care programmes in place at
our Marikana, PMR and Limpopo operations. In 2009,
1,999 community members were counselled and
tested for HIV of whom 18% tested positive. To date
we have 75 active peer educators, who have held over
3,500 education sessions and numerous one on one
meetings, reaching almost 50,000 community members
on issues such as HIV / AIDS, tuberculosis and
cholera. In 2009, we have continued with our home-
based care programme in our communities, where
volunteers visit and care for terminally ill patients and
orphans. Currently over 1,200 patients and 640
orphans are being cared for on a regular basis, with
over 50,000 visits made in the past year.
Our wellness programme is designed to cater
for the physical and emotional needs of HIV positive
employees. We offer and resource an Anti-Retroviral
Treatment (ART) programme, funded by the
employee’s medical aid insurance at no cost to the
individual. We have committed that free ART will be
offered to the employee for life, regardless of whether
or not they remain employed by the Company, this
being particularly relevant during the recent
restructuring and reorganisation processes. In 2009,
276 employees joined our wellness programme,
taking the active participation to 518 employees, a
51% decrease since 2008. At 30 September 2009,
we have 962 patients on ART, a 3% decrease from
2008. The reduction in the participation in both our
wellness and ART programmes is partially as a result
of the restructuring and reorganisational process and
employees who have defaulted from the programme.
Of concern to us are the circa 10% of patients who
left the ART programme in 2009. Although the
treatment is voluntary, we continuously strive to
reduce defaulting through education and awareness.
Tuberculosis
Tuberculosis is one of the principal illnesses associated
with HIV / AIDS. We have a tuberculosis control
programme in place, comprising early identification
and appropriate treatment with quality drugs and
lifestyle management through directly observed
treatment – this is a World Health Organisation
intervention to improve adherence to tuberculosis
treatment. In 2009, the Company’s Tuberculosis
Policy was reviewed and amended. We continue to
be vigilant with the identification and treatment of
extreme and multi-drug resistant tuberculosis through
our tuberculosis control programme. In 2009, 472 of
our employees were diagnosed with tuberculosis, an
11.4% decrease from 2008. Of the 472 cases, 374
cases were pulmonary tuberculosis and 19 multi-drug
resistant tuberculosis. No new cases of extreme drug
resistant tuberculosis were identified in 2009. Multi-
drug resistant tuberculosis is exhibiting an increasing
trend in our workforce.
0
05 06 07 08 09
2,500
2,000
1,000
500
1,500
Patients on Wellness Patients on ART
Number
Financial year
ART and wellness programme participation
0
05 06 07 08 09
600
500
300
200
100
400
Number
Financial year
Number of tuberculosis cases
Health (continued) 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 47
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Environment
WE ARE COMMITTED TO OUR GOAL AND VALUE OF ZERO HARM TO
THE ENVIRONMENT. ALL MINING AND PROCESSING ACTIVITIES WILL
HAVE AN IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT, BUT MINIMISING THIS AND
USING RESOURCES MORE EFFICIENTLY IS AT THE CORE OF THE
COMPANY’S APPROACH TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT.
We face a number of environmental risks, of which
the most important relate to energy, water resources
and closure costs, which we aim to minimise through
integrated environmental management and closure
planning.
Accessing and Managing Energy Resources
Energy is vital to our operations, with electrical power
of particular importance. We seek to play our part in
addressing a number of risks in this area, including:
• The low level of availability of uncommitted electrical
power in South Africa, which culminated in the
load-shedding and consequent project deferral
experienced by the mining industry in 2008; and
• The carbon emissions associated with electricity
generation in South Africa, the vast majority of
which originates in coal-fired power stations.
We are committed to promoting the sustainable
use of natural resources, responding to climate change
and driving the reduction of greenhouse gases by
adopting best practice technology, alternative energy
sources, improved control systems and management
practices. Our approach to climate change remains
aligned with that of the ICMM and as a member
company we recognise the significance of climate
change on a global, national and local scale.
Energy use
We have a target to improve our energy efficiency by
10% by 2012, based on our efficiency in 2007.
In 2009, our total energy use, of which all is non-
renewable, amounted to 6,613TJ which is an 11%
decrease from our consumption in 2007. Our energy
efficiency has increased by 3.77% on our 2007
consumption to 5.22GJ / PGM oz. Although our total
energy use has improved since 2007, our consumption
and efficiency since 2008 has deteriorated. In 2009,
in terms of our initiatives to improve energy efficiency
at existing operations, we have continued our focus
on demand control management by shifting on-peak
energy use to off-peak periods; exploring options
regarding geothermal energy use and bio-energy
generation and further replaced low energy efficiency
motors with high energy efficiency motors and other
initiatives such as extending the use of solar water
heaters and the disconnection of geysers where
possible.
Greenhouse gas emissions
We have set targets to improve our greenhouse gas
efficiency by 5% by 2012. In 2009, we emitted
1,594,827 tonnes CO
2
equivalent of greenhouse
gases, in accordance with our 2007 scope of
activities. Although we have decreased our greenhouse
gas emissions by 4.7% and 3.9% since 2007 and
2008 respectively, our greenhouse gas emissions per
unit of production since both 2007 and 2008 have
deteriorated, primarily as a result of lower production.
In 2009 our greenhouse gas emissions efficiency
amounted to 1.26 tonnes CO
2
equivalent / PGM oz.
1,300
05 06 07 08 09
1,800
1,700
1,750
1,500
1,550
1,450
1,400
1,350
1,600
1,650
Kilotonnes CO
2
equivalent
Total greenhouse gas emissions efficiency
Total greenhouse gas emissions
0
1.4
0.2
0.8
0.6
0.4
1.0
1.2
Kilotonnes CO
2
equivalent/PGM oz
Financial year
Total greenhouse gas emissions
0
05 06 07 08 09
8,000
7,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
6,000
TJ
Total energy efficiency Total energy
0
6
1
4
3
2
5
GJ/PGM oz
Financial year
Total energy use 48
Environment (continued)
Accessing and Managing Water Resources
Our mining operations are located in water-scarce
regions of South Africa. Access to adequate water
resources remains essential for our mining operations.
Our management of water resources is an integrated
three-fold approach to secure the availability of sufficient
water for our current and future mining operations; to
reduce our fresh water consumption by improving
water use efficiencies and water recycling; and to
prevent the contamination of ground and surface
water resources in the regions where we operate.
Securing water for our operations
We have currently secured access to water resources
which we expect to be sufficient for our current and
planned mining and processing needs at our
Marikana operations, assuming no major divergence
from expected rainfall patterns. We continuously
seek opportunities to reduce fresh water
consumption further through securing access to
waste water or water of poorer quality. We are in the
process of securing further water resources for our
Akanani operations in the Limpopo Province.
Reducing fresh water consumption
Fresh water for our operations in Marikana and at our
PMR is sourced from the regional water utility, while
our Limpopo operations access freshwater from a
regional well-field. Ground water usage is limited to
exploration activities. We have set a target to reduce
our aggregate fresh water consumption by 15% per
unit of production by September 2012 as at the
baseline consumption in 2007. In line with this target,
in 2009 we further implemented measures to enforce
the zero surface discharge policy to maximise water
recycling through closed system reticulation and
are establishing a Company wide real time water
balance model. In 2009, we completed a study of the
availability, sustainability and practicality of utilising
contaminated groundwater from our tailings facilities
at Marikana to reduce reliance on fresh water
consumption. This study indicated good potential for
the water source in terms of availability, sustainability
and practicality.
In 2009, our total fresh water intake from the
regional water utility and from the well-field in
Limpopo amounted to 8,885,360m
3
which is a
decrease by 24.7% and 4.0% from total intake in
2007 and 2008 respectively. The total fresh water
efficiency has improved by 12.16% from 7.98m
3
/
PGM oz in 2007 to 7.01m
3
/ PGM oz in 2009.
Ground and surface water resources
We aim to prevent pollution and environmental
degradation to surface and groundwater resources,
mitigate and remediate where contamination has
historically taken place and to continue monitoring the
impacts of our operations on water resources and the
effects of our remediation efforts. Our water licences
provide the regulatory framework for the management
of our water resource qualities. We have proactive
management programmes in place which aim to
reduce the possibility of pollution and provide us with
early warning of any incident, so that we can take
appropriate mitigating actions. In 2009, as part of our
storm water management control plan, the storm
water storage facilities were constructed at the UG2
Concentrator, BMR and at the Smelter at a total cost
of US$3.1 million. Additionally in 2009, the new
Wonderkop waste water treatment plant was
commissioned at a cost of US$3.2 million.
In order to monitor our impact on the receiving
water resources, we have 135 surface and in excess
of 260 ground water monitoring boreholes in place
at all operations. The results of the monitoring
programmes and annual groundwater modelling are
interpreted to monitor the impact of our operations
on the receiving environment.
0
05 06 07 08 09
14,000,000
12,000,000
8,000,000
6,000,000
4,000,000
2,000,000
10,000,000
m
3
Total freshwater intake efficiency
Total freshwater intake
0
9
8
1
4
3
2
7
6
5
m
3
/PGM oz
Financial year
Total freshwater intake 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 49
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Minimising Closure Costs and Environmental Risks
through Integrated Environmental Management and
Closure Planning.
We are committed to integrated land use management
and biodiversity conservation by applying a risk-based
precautionary approach during all phases of our
operational life, including mine closure.
Mine closure planning
In 2009, we established an integrated mine closure
strategy and plan for our operations, to be reviewed
every two years, which provides a strategic framework
within which all closure planning for our operations
can be managed. The strategy informs all
environmental management programmes at our
operations so as to ensure alignment with best
practice and legislation and comprises conceptual
land use, spatial development plans and consolidated
environmental plans which are based on risk
assessments. This gives rise to enhanced application
of pollution prevention principles and reduced long-
term financial risk. Integral to the development of the
strategy and plan were extensive stakeholder
consultations which enabled us to obtain feedback
into the sustainable use and management of our
natural resources.
Financial closure provisions for unscheduled and
scheduled closure are reviewed annually against the
progress made in implementing the integrated mine
closure strategy and plans. These provisions are also
audited annually by third parties and amended
accordingly to ensure sufficient financial resources are
available at any given time to implement rehabilitation
measures as required by the management programmes
and closure planning. At 30 September 2009, we had
a provision covering the costs of site closures of
US$67 million, compared to US$50 million in 2008.
This provision is partly funded by Rehabilitation Trust
Fund deposits with the balance supported by bank
guarantees. All new projects undertaken consider
closure measures. Furthermore, the associated
closure costs are integral to the environmental impact
assessments undertaken for the activities. 50
Communities
WE ARE COMMITTED TO EMPOWERING OUR HOST COMMUNITIES
AND IMPROVING THEIR QUALITY OF LIFE BY CONTRIBUTING TO THEIR
LONG-TERM SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AND PROMOTING THE BENEFICIATION OF OUR MINERALS.
The business case for empowering the GLC, a term
describing the communities within a 15 kilometre
radius of our operations and improving their quality
of life is straightforward, given that the success of
the business is dependent on the stability of these
communities. To this end, we contribute to our
communities’ long-term economic development
and promote the beneficiation of our minerals.
Additionally, stakeholder engagement improves
Company-community relations, and guides us in
taking decisions that affect the community. Our
community initiatives in terms of development and
engagement are focused on the GLC and our
community development initiatives are also focused
on our labour sending areas in Eastern Cape Province.
Community Engagement
The key objectives for community engagement
are to understand community concerns and guide
expectations; plan and manage community
development projects; and encourage community
self-reliance, governance and skills development.
Over the past couple of years we have learnt through
our annual perception surveys that our approach to
community engagement often lacked inclusiveness
and structure. In 2009, we refocused our community
engagement initiatives on the quarterly Rekopane
Development Forum and GLC area meetings which
take place monthly. These meetings are project
orientated and provide platforms for discussion of
challenges, successes and progress of various
projects. Community members are also provided with
the opportunity to become a part of the projects in
their areas. Community matters are channelled
through our Human Capital and External Affairs
Department to the respective departments where
they are addressed in direct consultation with
applicable community members. We also have a
formal complaints register that is easily accessible
with the option to remain anonymous.
Community Development
Since 2006, we have focused our community
development programmes on the commitments
outlined in the Social and Labour Plans for Marikana.
Our key focus areas are infrastructure development,
educational support, health support and local business
development, including commercial agriculture. These
projects have been selected and developed in close
collaboration with local authorities and government to
ensure that we complement local development plans.
In 2009, US$5.7 million was spent on community
development projects and of this amount US$3.2
million was spent on local economic development
as per the Social and Labour Plans. To date, we
have spent 41.1% of our total five year financial
commitments for local economic development as per
the Social and Labour Plans, thus slightly exceeding
our target of spending 41% by 2009. Baseline socio-
economic and quality of life indicators enable us to
track our impact on sustainable development. The
key community development projects and spend in
2009 are outlined below.
Key community development projects in 2009
Project Spend in 2009 (US$000)
Community skills development US$10
Madibeng capacity building programme US$67
Local supplier development programme US$593
North West water and sanitation project US$782
Water and sanitation
(Eastern Cape Province) US$61
Silindini Bridge (Eastern Cape Province) US$337
Health care delivery US$35
Rustenburg hospice US$95
HIV / AIDS peer education and home
based care US$62
Post matric bridging course US$62
Saturday School programme US$94
Personal computer laboratories US$15
Early childhood development US$30
School infrastructure upgrade US$770
Curriculum support software US$13
Annual career exhibition US$34
School nutrition programmes US$641
Permaculture and eco-schools US$40
Agisanang farming project US$533
Itireleng community co-operative US$24
Total US$4,298 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 51
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Sustainability Performance Indicators
Measurement 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Employees
Employees Number 21,228 23,804 24,122 25,967 21,623
Contractors Number 5,306 6,932 8,580 7,758 10,497
1
Designated employed in management Percentage 25.8 36 37.9 42.3 41.3
on a permanent basis
Women employed on a permanent basis Percentage N.D.A 1.4 1.4 1.8 2.9
in mining operations
Women employed on a permanent basis Percentage N.D.A 4.1 4.9 6.1 6.8
at the mine
Employee turnover rate Percentage 15.9 1.1 4.1 6.6 23.3
Employees and contractors trained in ABET Number N.D.A 1,681 1,389 2,866 1,139
Occupational Health and Safety
Fatalities Number 663 33
LTIFR Incidents / million 18.10
2
12.50 10.80 6.27 6.21
hours worked
NIHL cases compensated Number 278 570 490 229 45
Tuberculosis cases
3
Number 286 338 504 533 472
HIV / AIDS
Patients on ART (excludes PMR)
4
Number 407 587 836 989 962
Patients on the wellness Programme Number N.D.A N.D.A N.D.A 1150 518
Environment
Total freshwater intake m
3
9,500,000 10,858,464 11,795,482 9,256,244 8,885,360
Total freshwater intake efficiency m
3
/ PGM oz 5.60 6.00 7.98 6.77 7.01
Energy Terajoules 5,813 7,348 7,434 6,555 6,613
Energy efficiency GJ / PGM oz 3.50 4.10 5.03 4.80 5.22
Greenhouse gas Kilotonnes CO
2
1,489 1,775 1,673 1,659 1,595
equivalent
Greenhouse gas efficiency Kilotonnes CO
2
0.89 0.98 1.13 1.21 1.26
equivalent / PGM oz
Tailings disposed to tailings facilities Kilotonnes 12,832 15,519 14,487 12,649 17,068
Waste rock disposed to rock dumps Kilotonnes 1,415 1,376 1,203 1,128 1,343
Hazardous waste disposed of to landfill Tonnes N.A N.A N.A 42,857 55,906
and incineration
General waste to landfill Tonnes N.A N.A N.A 8,279 7,199
Average tonnes of SO
2
emitted per day Tonnes / day 3.4 7.4 11.3 9.1 11.1
from point and non-point sources
5
Communities
Percentage spend of our financial Percentage N.A N.A N.D.A 24 41
commitments on local economic
development projects as per the Social
and Labour Plan by 2009
N.D.A – No data available. Where it is indicated that no data is available, this is primarily as a result of low confidence in the accuracy of the data or an
absence of measurement of the data.
N.A. – Not applicable
1. Due to improvements in data capturing systems, our contractor figures in 2009, includes all contractor personnel registered on our database, including
ad hoc contractors, external consultants, labour brokers, service providers and volume contractors. In previous years, a portion of these personnel were
not registered on our database. Not all of these contractors are employed on a full time basis.
2. The figure for LTIFR for financial year 2005 was identified during the 2005 assurance process to have the potential of being underestimated by 10%.
3. This was incorrectly published prior to 2009 – the data represents total tuberculosis cases and not only pulmonary tuberculosis cases.
4. PMR patients access ART through their private medical aid schemes.
5. The data for 2007, 2008 and 2009 represents emissions from both point and non-point sources. 52
Board of Directors
1. 2. 3.
4. 5. 6.
7. 8. 9. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 53
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
1. Roger Phillimore (60) Chairman
Appointed Chairman in March 2009,
having joined the Company as an
independent Non-executive Director
in 1997. Roger is also Chairman of the
Nomination Committee. Formerly joint
managing director of Minorco, he is
currently a Non-executive Director of
Harry Winston Diamond Corporation.
Roger holds both South African and
British nationality.
2. Ian Farmer (47) Chief Executive
Officer
Appointed a director in 2001 and as
Chief Executive Officer in September
2008, following seven years as Chief
Strategic Officer. A chartered accountant,
he joined the Company in 1986 and
transferred to a Group Company in
Zambia in 1990. In 1995 he was
appointed Finance Director of Lonmin
Platinum in South Africa, which position
he relinquished upon his transfer to
London in 2001. Ian has both South
African and British nationality.
3. Alan Ferguson (51) Chief Financial
Officer
Appointed as Chief Financial Officer
and a director in June 2007. Prior to
joining Lonmin, he was Group Finance
Director of The BOC Group until late
2006, following the Linde Group’s
acquisition of BOC. Before joining BOC
in 2005, he worked for Inchcape Plc for
22 years in a variety of roles including
Group Finance Director from 1999 until
his departure. Alan is a Chartered
Accountant and is a British national.
4. Jonathan Leslie (58)
Appointed an independent Non-
executive Director on 4 June 2009.
He is a member of the Remuneration,
Nomination and Safety & Sustainability
Committees. Jonathan spent 26 years
with Rio Tinto, including 9 years’
service on the board. His roles at Rio
Tinto included Mining Director and
Chief Executive of two of Rio’s Product
Groups, respectively Copper, and
Diamonds and Gold. He left Rio Tinto
in 2003 to become Chief Executive
of Sappi Ltd, a SA-based producer of
coated fine papers. In 2006 he became
Executive Chairman of AIM-listed
Nikanor Plc until the merger with
Katanga Mining Limited in 2008.
Jonathan has an MA in Jurisprudence
from Oxford University and is a qualified
barrister. He is a British national.
5. Peter Godsoe (71)
A chartered accountant and banker
with an MBA from Harvard, he was
appointed an independent Non-
executive Director in 2001. He is a
member of the Nomination and
Remuneration Committees. Formerly
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of The Bank of Nova Scotia, he is
currently a Non-executive Director
of Barrick Gold, Onex Corporation,
Rogers Communications Inc and
Ingersoll-Rand Company. Peter is
a Canadian national.
6. David Munro (54)
Appointed an independent Non-
executive Director in August 2007.
David is currently Executive Director,
Development of Kazakhmys Plc, having
previously been Strategy Director. He
joined the board of Kazakhmys in 2005
as a non-executive Director. Before
joining Kazakhmys, David was Chief
Executive Officer of RMC Group Plc,
Chief Development Officer of BHP
Billiton Plc and an executive director
of Billiton Plc responsible for its
global aluminium and base metals
businesses. David is a British national.
7. Jim Sutcliffe (53)
Appointed an independent Non-
executive Director in August 2007
and is Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee and a member of the
Nomination Committee. Formerly Chief
Executive of Old Mutual Plc, a post
which he assumed in November 2001
after acting as Chief Executive of the
Old Mutual Group’s life assurance
business since January 2000. Before
joining Old Mutual, Jim was Chief
Executive UK of Prudential Plc. In 2009
Jim was appointed to the Board of the
Financial Reporting Council and is
Chairman of the UK Board for Actuarial
Standards. He is also a director of
Liberty Group Ltd, Liberty Holdings Ltd,
Sun Life Assurance Company of
Canada and Sun Life Financial Inc.
Jim is a British national.
8. Karen de Segundo (62)
Appointed an independent Non-
executive Director in April 2005 and
a member of the Audit and Risk,
Safety & Sustainability and Nomination
Committees. Formerly Chief Executive
Officer of Shell International Renewables
and Chief Executive of Shell’s global
gas and power business. Karen is
currently a Non-executive Director of
British American Tobacco Plc and
Ensus Holdings Limited, a Member
of the Supervisory Boards of E.on AG
and Koninklijke Ahold N.V. and a
member of the board of Pöyry Oyj.
Karen is a Dutch national.
9. Michael Hartnall (67) Senior
Independent Director
Appointed an independent Non-
executive Director in May 2003. He
is the Chairman of the Audit & Risk
Committee and is a member of
the Remuneration and Nomination
Committees. A chartered accountant
and former finance director of Rexam
Plc, he is also a Non-executive Director
of BAE Systems Plc. Michael is a
British national. 54
Executive Committee
1. 2. 3. 4.
5. 6. 7. 8.
1. Ian Farmer (47) Chief Executive Officer
Biography included in Board of Directors section on
page 53.
2. Alan Ferguson (51) Chief Financial Officer
Biography included in Board of Directors section on
page 53.
3. Mahomed Seedat (53) Chief Operating Officer
Mahomed joined Lonmin in September 2007. He was
previously with BHP Billiton where he was most recently
President of their Energy Customer Sector Group and a
member of BHP Billiton’s Executive Committee. Prior to
that, he held several positions there, including President
and Chief Operating Officer of Ingwe Coal, and
President and Chief Operating Officer Aluminium
Southern Africa as well as a number of roles in their
Aluminium Customer Sector Group. Before joining BHP
Billiton, Mahomed worked for Anglo Coal.
4. Albert Jamieson (51) Chief Commercial Officer
Albert joined Lonmin in 1989 after 8 years at Impala
Platinum, where he was responsible for their
concentrator operations. At Lonmin, he has held a
number of senior management and executive positions
in the mine production and commercial areas of the
business. The commercial portfolio currently consists of
business development, strategy, marketing and sales,
exploration and legal.
5. Chris Sheppard (50) EVP , Technical Services
Chris joined Lonmin in October 2007, initially as EVP
Mining, and subsequently appointed EVP Technical
Services in June 2009. He was previously Head of
Mining Technical Services with Anglo Platinum Limited,
having worked for that company since March 2001,
where he held a number of positions, including General
Manager Rustenburg Mines from 2004 until 2007. Prior
to joining Anglo Platinum Chris worked for Anglo Gold.
6. Mark Munroe (40) EVP , Mining
Mark joined Lonmin in March 2008 in the Mining
business and subsequently became VP Capital
Projects & Engineering, before being appointed
EVP Mining in June 2009. Mark joined Lonmin from
DRDGold, where he held a number of senior
management positions during his six years there,
including General Manager of DRDGold and CEO
of DRDCapital. Prior to that, he worked for Anglo
Gold for 12 years.
7. Theuns de Bruyn (40) EVP , Process Division
Theuns joined Lonmin in November 2006, having
worked for BHP Billiton for nearly 20 years, where
he was most recently Business Development
Manager for their Strategy and Business
Development function. Prior to that, he held a
number of other roles at BHP Billiton, including
General Manager of the Tubatse Ferro-chrome
facility as well as other positions in the ferro-chrome
and aluminium sectors.
8. Barnard Mokwena (45) EVP , Human Capital
& External Affairs
Barnard joined Lonmin in October 2005, having
previously worked in senior management positions
in a range of sectors for a number of companies
including Sentech and the South African Rail
Commuter Corporation. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 55
Directors’ Report – Governance
This report combines the Directors’ Report required to be produced by law and the corporate governance statement required by
the Disclosure & Transparency Rules. It also includes sections reporting on the role and work of the Audit and Risk Committee
and the Nomination Committee, respectively required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules and the Combined Code. The
Directors’ Remuneration Report is contained in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 72 to 89.
1. Governance of the Company
The Company is led and controlled by the Board of Directors. The Board is fully committed to the highest standards of
corporate governance which it believes create the foundation of business integrity needed to deliver robust and sustainable
business results.
As an English-incorporated company with a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, Lonmin is subject to The
Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC). For the year under review,
we were subject to the version of the Combined Code published in June 2008 and the revised version of the Turnbull
Guidance published in October 2005, both of which are available from the FRC website, www.frc.org.uk.
During the year to 30 September 2009 and to the date of this report, the Company has in all respects complied with
the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
Substantially the whole of the Company’s business is based in South Africa, and we will also be subject to the
provisions of the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009, more commonly known as ‘King III’. Consideration
of the principles espoused in King III will be a key task for the new financial year.
2. How does the Board of Directors operate?
2.1 Appointments to the Board
The Company’s Articles of Association specify that there shall be between four and fifteen directors at all times, and confer
power to fill a ‘casual vacancy’ on the directors. To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment
of new Directors to the Board, a Nomination Committee has been created. Its work is more fully described in section 7 of
this report. Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria. In the case of candidates for non-executive
directorships, care is taken to ascertain whether they have sufficient time available to meet their Board and, where relevant,
Committee responsibilities. As part of this process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment,
undertake to inform the Board of any changes. The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are
available for public inspection and a sample letter of appointment is provided on the Company’s website.
2.2 The Board of Directors
The Board currently has nine members, comprising a non-executive Chairman, six non-executive Directors, each of whom
the Board judges to be independent, and two executive Directors. The names of the current directors and short biographical
details are set out on page 53.
All served throughout the year, save for Jonathan Leslie who was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director on
4 June 2009. In addition, Brad Mills served as a Director until 9 October 2008 and Sir John Craven as a non-executive
Director and Chairman of the Board until 29 January 2009. Dr Sivi Gounden resigned as a non-executive Director on
16 October 2009.
2.3 Board balance and independence
The Board believes that it has sufficient members to contain a balance of experience and skills and to manage succession
issues, but without being so large as to be unwieldy. The quality of the individual Directors and the Board’s composition is a key
contributor to the Board’s effectiveness, with no one individual or group of individuals being able to dominate the decision-taking.
The Board keeps the membership of its Committees under review, to ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience. It is
satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
All of the Non-executive Directors are regarded as independent by the Board, as was the Chairman on his appointment.
The experience and international diversity of the non-executive Directors in office at the date of this report can be summarised
as follows:
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Industry sector Number
Banking and Financial Services 2
Manufacturing 1
Natural Resources 4
Total 7
Country of residence Number
Canada 1
South Africa 1
United Kingdom 5
Total 7
2.4 Leadership of the Board
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 29 January 2009, Sir John Craven announced that he would not be seeking
re-election as a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Board, his retirement being effective at the end of the meeting.
Roger Phillimore, then Deputy Chairman, was appointed acting Chairman until a permanent successor was identified. During
the search process, Mr Phillimore’s other commitments changed, allowing him to become a candidate. Although a number of
other high quality individuals were identified, the Board concluded that Mr Phillimore was the most appropriate individual to
take the Board forward. The Board was satisfied that he continued to demonstrate complete independence in character,
judgement and action at the time of his appointment, notwithstanding the length of his tenure on the Board. The Company
announced Mr Phillimore’s appointment as Chairman on 23 March 2009. 56
Directors’ Report – Governance
2. How does the Board of Directors operate? (continued)
2.5 How do we assess and refresh the Board?
There are three key mechanisms by which we attempt to ensure that the Directors continue to provide suitable leadership
and direction to the Company:
1. Performance evaluation;
2. Succession planning; and
3. Periodic re-election by shareholders.
1) Performance evaluation
The Company has previously implemented a Board performance evaluation process which is designed to identify
whether the Board possesses the relevant skills, knowledge and experience to fulfil its mandate, so enabling it to
manage succession issues.
The review in May 2008 had identified two areas where improvements could be made. These were addressed
during the year as follows:
Issue Resolution
Improve the degree of interaction between Board Site visits, lunches and dinners during the two Board visits to South
members and key executives and senior managers Africa were designed to provide informal opportunities to meet a wide
range of managers. Working meetings with the Executive Committee
were held during the September 2009 Board visit, and members of
the Executive Committee attended part of the Board meeting
Create additional opportunities for informal A number of dinners were held during the year at which the
discussion of key business issues between Directors could debate business issues informally
Board members.
The Board recognises that externally facilitated evaluations can provide a useful and impartial feedback mechanism.
However, since both the Chairman and the Chief Executive have only been in post for a matter of months, the Board
decided that it would not be appropriate to have such a review at this time. Instead, Mr Phillimore held individual
discussions with each of the Directors to assess their views on a wide range of issues, including the effectiveness of the
Board Committees, using set questions to structure the debate.
Feedback from each of those discussions was provided to the Board. The most material conclusion was that
executive management should be based in South Africa, close to the mining operations with the aim of enhancing day-
to-day management and communications, as well as enabling the Company to engage more effectively with its South
African stakeholders. It was also decided to add a third day to each of the bi-annual Board visits to South Africa in order
to afford more time with local senior managers.
The Board is considering the appointment of an external facilitator during the course of 2010.
In September 2009, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director and without the Chairman being
present, the Board also assessed the effectiveness of the Chairman. The unanimous conclusion was that the Chairman
was effective in the role, in large part because of his length of tenure and intimate knowledge of the business.
2) Succession planning
The Board aims to review formally succession plans for all key management roles including executive directorships,
on an annual basis. The purpose of this is twofold – to mitigate the risk of key roles not having one or more identified
successors and to review potential development opportunities and career plans for talented individuals.
3) Re-election of Directors
All Directors are required by the Company’s Articles of Association to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders
after first appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years. Where a non-executive Director (save
for the Chairman) has served more than three three-year terms, they are obliged to do so on an annual basis. Sufficient
biographical and other information (including, in the case of a non-executive Director seeking re-election, a statement as
to his or her continued effectiveness and commitment) is provided to enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
At the 2010 AGM, six directors will retire under these arrangements, all of whom are seeking re-election:
Director Reason for retirement Contractual arrangements
Executive directors
Ian Farmer Retirement by rotation Service agreement (see page 89)
Alan Ferguson Retirement by rotation Service agreement (see page 89)
Non-executive directors
Jonathan Leslie Retirement following first appointment Letter of appointment only
David Munro Retirement by rotation Letter of appointment only
Roger Phillimore Retirement by rotation Letter of appointment only
Jim Sutcliffe Retirement by rotation Letter of appointment only
The Nomination Committee has carried out formal performance evaluations of each of the non-executive Directors
seeking re-election and has concluded that each is effective and demonstrates commitment to his respective role.
Further information on those seeking re-election is contained in the Directors’ biographies on page 53 and in the Annual
General Meeting circular accompanying this document. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 57
Directors’ Report – Governance
2. How does the Board of Directors operate? (continued)
2.6 What is the role of the Board?
The Board provides the entrepreneurial leadership, direction and control of the Company; is the custodian of the Company’s
strategic aims, vision and values; and assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are, and will continue
to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives. All Directors are free to express their views and may ask that
these be recorded in the minutes where appropriate.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, the most material of which fall into the key areas
listed below:
• Strategy and management;
• Financial reporting and control;
• Social, environmental and ethical matters;
• Contracts and financial commitments;
• External communications;
• Corporate governance;
• Remuneration; and
• Board composition and membership.
Subject to legislation, the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association and any directions given by special
resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company
including the power to authorise the issue and buy back of the Company’s shares (subject to the authority being given
to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting).
Whilst all Directors have equal responsibility in law for managing the Company’s affairs, it is the role of executive
management to run the business within the parameters laid down by the Board and to produce clear, accurate and timely
reports to enable the Board to monitor and assess management’s performance. The executives make full use of the
expertise and experience that the non-executive Directors bring from their business careers.
The Chairman routinely holds discussions with non-executive Directors without the executive Directors being present.
The non-executive Directors have access to the management team through working sessions with the Executive Committee
and with the operational management team reporting to the Executive Committee.
2.7 What are the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer?
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly separated and set out in writing.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda, and for
facilitating the effective contribution of all Directors, ensuring that there is a constructive relationship between the executive
and non-executive Directors. The Chairman also has primary accountability for providing strategic guidance to the executive
team and monitoring the performance of the business, and for ensuring that there is effective communication with all
shareholders.
The role of the Chief Executive Officer is to provide leadership to the executive team in running the business, to develop
proposals for the Board to consider in all areas reserved for its judgement and to oversee the efficient and effective
implementation of Board-approved actions.
Executive management, led by the Chief Executive Officer, are responsible for developing strategy for consideration by
the Board, the implementation of that strategy once approved and furnishing the Board with all information reasonably
required to monitor the efficient and effective conduct of the business.
2.8 What is the role of the non-executive Directors?
The non-executive Directors are expected to contribute individually and collectively to:
• The selection, appointment, pay and, where appropriate, removal of the executives leading the business and the
succession planning necessary to support this;
• The consideration and approval of strategy;
• The setting of targets and the subsequent monitoring of performance;
• Assessment of the management of risk and the strength of the internal control environment; and
• Effective governance (in terms of (1) compliance with applicable Codes, (2) ensuring stakeholders’ needs are adequately
considered and addressed and (3) in overseeing the internal management arrangements of the Company) to ensure
shareholders’ interests are protected.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 58
Directors’ Report – Governance
2. How does the Board of Directors operate? (continued)
2.9 How often does the Board meet, and who attends?
The Board met formally on eleven occasions during the year, including two three-day trips to South Africa. Attendance at
these meetings was as follows:
Number of meetings Number of
Director held during time in office meetings attended
Sir John Craven 42
Ian Farmer 11 11
Alan Ferguson 11 11
Peter Godsoe 11 9
Sivi Gounden 11 10
Michael Hartnall 11 11
Jonathan Leslie 33
David Munro 11 8
Roger Phillimore 11 11
Karen de Segundo 11 10
Jim Sutcliffe 11 10
A further four ad hoc meetings of a committee of the Board were held to issue formal approvals or deal with other
matters. In addition to these meetings, the Non-executive Directors make themselves available to management whenever
required and there are numerous regular contacts outside the Board meeting schedule.
2. 10 What Committees support the Board in its work?
The Board has established four formal Committees and provides sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their
duties. Membership of these Committees during the year to 30 September 2009 and to the date of this report (except where
stated otherwise) is shown below.
Safety and
Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability
Non-executive directors
Peter Godsoe Member Member
Sivi Gounden Member
1,2
Chairman
2
Michael Hartnall Member Chairman Member
Jonathan Leslie Member
3
Member
4
Member
3
Roger Phillimore Member
5
Member
6
Chairman
Karen de Segundo Member Member
1
Member
David Munro Member
7
Member
1
Member
Jim Sutcliffe Chairman
8
Member Member
1
Executive director
Ian Farmer Member
1 From 6 March 2009
2 To 16 October 2009
3 From 2 July 2009
4 From 4 June 2009
5 Chairman to 6 March 2009, Member to 31 March 2009
6 To 28 January 2009
7 To 6 March 2009
8 Member from 28 January 2009, Chairman from 6 March 2009 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 59
Directors’ Report – Governance
2. How does the Board of Directors operate? (continued)
2. 10 What Committees support the Board in its work? (continued)
The roles of each of the Board Committees can be found later in this report, or in the separate Remuneration
Committee Report. The interaction between the Board, its Committees and the management of the Company can be
summarised as follows:
Board Committees
Management Committees
2.11How does the Board manage any conflicts of interest?
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest or
possible conflict of interest with the company. Shareholders approved amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association
at the Annual General Meeting in January 2009 which implemented certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006, including
a general power enabling the Board to authorise such conflicts (the Act provides that there is no breach if the relevant matter
has been authorised in advance).
A review of the Directors’ interests and other appointments was carried out in March 2009 and procedures for
managing conflicts were agreed. Should a Director become aware that he or she has an interest in an existing or proposed
transaction, he or she is required to notify the Board in writing or at the next Board meeting. Directors are not counted in the
quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or potential conflicts. Authorisations that are granted are recorded by the
Company Secretary in a register of conflict authorisations. Directors have a continuing duty to update the Board on any
changes to these conflicts and in any event the Board will carry out reviews annually.
No Director had a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Company’s business at any time
during the year.
The interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the year, and to the date of this report in the Company’s
shares are shown in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 72 to 89. No Director held any beneficial interest in the
share capital of any other Group company at any time during the year or at the year end.
2.12 How do we support the Board?
The Board is supplied with regular and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables it to discharge its duties.
All Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of the executive Directors or management.
The Chairman advocates that all Directors continually update their skills and knowledge, and develop the familiarity with
the Company’s operations needed to fulfil their role. The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and
updating all Directors’ knowledge and capabilities, both on appointment and subsequently as necessary. This includes a full,
formal and tailored induction programme, briefings on the legal, regulatory, financial and competitive environments in which
the Company operates and, when appropriate, the opportunity to meet a range of major shareholders and external advisors.
Copies of sell-side analysts’ notes on the Company are circulated to all Directors and senior executives, as are summaries
of analysts’ opinions collected anonymously by the Company’s financial PR advisors and summaries of shareholders’ views
collated by the Company’s joint brokers.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for information flows to the
Board, facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required, ensuring compliance with Board
procedure and applicable laws and regulation and advising the Board on corporate governance matters. The appointment
or removal of the Company Secretary is a Board decision. There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent
professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the Company’s expense.
Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources, plus the power to co-opt such additional support as they
may require from time to time, to undertake their duties.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Board of Directors
Executive
Committee
(Executive Directors,
Chief Operating Officer,
Chief Commercial Officer
and three Executive
Vice Presidents)
Operations
Committee
(Executive Committee
members, operational
& functional VPs and
certain executives and
senior managers)
Price and Risk
Committee
(Executive Directors,
Chief Commercial Officer,
VP Treasury & Risk, VP
Finance (UK), VP Finance (SA),
Executive Manager, Marketing)
Chief Executive
Officer
Audit and Risk
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Safety and
Sustainability
Committee 60
Directors’ Report – Governance
2. How does the Board of Directors operate? (continued)
2.13 What remuneration do the Directors receive?
While the Board is ultimately responsible for all Directors’ remuneration, the Remuneration Committee, which consists solely
of independent non-executive Directors, is responsible for:
• determining the remuneration and conditions of employment of the executive Directors and certain senior executives
(collectively known as the ‘RemCo Purview Group’);
• monitoring the remuneration and conditions of employment of certain senior managers below the RemCo Purview
Group; and
• Making recommendations to the Board on the fees offered to the non-executive Directors, after taking professional
advice.
A report on Directors’ remuneration, including a more detailed description of the role and activities of the Remuneration
Committee is set out on pages 72 to 89. The terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors are available for inspection
at the Company’s registered office and will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
2.14 What protection do we offer to Directors?
In law, Directors are responsible for most facets of the Company’s dealings. As a consequence, they carry significant
personal liability under criminal and civil law and under the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and
face a range of penalties including, potentially, private or public censure, fines and / or imprisonment. The Company believes
that it is appropriate to protect the individuals prepared to serve on its Board from the consequences of innocent error or
omission, and that it is in the Company’s best interests to do so, as it enables us to attract individuals of suitable calibre and
character to act as Directors.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in
certain circumstances for the benefit of Directors and other Group personnel. The insurance policy does not provide cover
where the Director or officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by law, Deeds of Indemnity have
been issued to protect all past, present and future Directors and officers of the Company from all costs and expenses
incurred in the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings are
otherwise disposed of without a finding of fault or the successful application to court for relief from liability. Under the terms
of the indemnities, the Company is permitted to advance funds to meet a Director’s defence costs which, should the Director
not be exonerated, would be repayable to the Company. The indemnities are expressed to operate only to the extent that
the directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy fails to respond to a claim.
3. Relations with shareholders
3.1 Who owns the Company?
Lonmin Plc has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and our UK share register has circa 16,500 registered
shareholders. We also have a secondary listing on the JSE Securities Exchange, South Africa and our South African branch
register has approximately 2,000 beneficial shareholders, including those who hold their shares in dematerialised form in
STRATE. We also have a sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipts programme, with around 750 participants.
Like most listed companies, ownership of the Company’s shares is concentrated in a small number of institutional and
other corporate shareholders. The Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in 3% or more of
the Company’s total voting rights up to 13 November 2009:
Percentage of
the Company’s
Number of total shares
shares and and voting Nature of
voting rights rights
1
Holding
Ameriprise Financial Inc and group companies
2
7,677,367 4.91 Indirect
Legal & General Group Plc 7,706,524 3.99 Direct
Prudential plc and group companies 26,174,708 13.55 Direct
Vanguard Precious Metals and Mining Fund
2
5,916,435 3.78 Direct
Xstrata Plc 47,592,625 24.67 Direct
1 Percentages as at date of notification.
2 Disclosed data was provided prior to the Rights Issue.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held by these shareholders are identical in all respects to the
rights attaching to all the ordinary shares of the Company. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 61
Directors’ Report – Governance
3. Relations with shareholders (continued)
3.2 How do we communicate with our institutional shareholders?
The Combined Code encourages dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The executive Directors have regular discussions with institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in the
Company’s best interests, but no information is shared which is not available to shareholders generally. Detailed feedback
from these visits is shared with the Board and a summary of the views expressed is presented to the next Board meeting.
In addition, the Chairman routinely offers key shareholders the opportunity of meetings with either himself or the Senior
Independent Director to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters shareholders wish to raise. The Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee, having been appointed during the year, and our HR Director met with several institutional
shareholders and representative bodies during the year to discuss the Company’s policy on remuneration and how this is
implemented in practice.
The Senior Independent Director, Michael Hartnall, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact
through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
3.3 How do we communicate with our private shareholders?
The Combined Code urges boards to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and to
encourage their participation. The Board has followed these principles for many years. The Notice of Meeting is sent to all
shareholders at least one month in advance. At the meeting, a business presentation is made by the Chief Executive Officer
and all Directors are available to answer questions both during the meeting and informally afterwards.
We give shareholders the opportunity to vote on every substantially different issue by proposing separate resolutions
and use electronic poll voting on all resolutions, with the results of those votes being announced to the markets and
displayed on our website. This enables the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account, whether they are able to
attend the meeting or not, as well as providing a more discreet and democratic method of voting at the meeting.
The Company has taken advantage of the ability in law to move to a default route of electronic communications with
shareholders, both to save cost and to avoid the use of paper, ink and other resources that would be entailed in printing and
distributing large numbers of documents. However, individual shareholders can opt to receive paper documents should they
so wish. In recognition of the needs of private shareholders, the Company’s website contains a range of investor relations
materials, including up-to-date information on the Group’s activities, copies of all presentation materials given to institutional
investors and copies to read or download of all our public reporting documents.
3.4 What is the purpose of the Annual General Meeting?
The Annual General Meeting is an important event in the corporate year, and is the point at which the Directors place their
report on the previous year’s events and results before the shareholders, and seek certain approvals and authorisations.
As seen above, these include the re-election of each board member on a regular basis. Poll voting allows the views of all
shareholders to be taken into account, and votes are routinely cast by those owning more than 70% of the Company’s
shares.
The 2010 AGM will be held at 11.00 a.m. on Thursday, 28 January 2010 at The Assembly Hall, Church House
Conference Centre, Dean’s Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ. A separate circular containing the Notice of Meeting,
together with an explanation of the items of special business, is enclosed with this Annual Report and
is available on the Company’s website.
Among the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM will be ones seeking shareholders’ authority for the Directors to be
empowered to allot equity securities, a limited dis-application of the statutory pre-emption rights and an authority for the
Company to make market purchases of its own shares. A special resolution will also be proposed seeking shareholders’
consent to the adoption of new Articles of Association. Further details of all of these matters are set out in the
AGM circular.
3.5 Are we paying a Dividend to shareholders?
As noted in the Chairman’s Statement on page 5, the Board does not recommend the payment of a final dividend given
the conservative stance adopted in the light of the continuing pressure on our profitability and cash flows. The total dividend
for the year ended 30 September 2009 is therefore nil (total dividend 2008 (interim only) – 59 US cents).
4. The Company’s business and statutory disclosures
4.1 What is Lonmin’s business?
The principal activities of the Group during the year continued to be mining, refining and marketing of Platinum Group Metals.
Analyses of revenue, operating profit, principal activities and geographical origins appear in note 2 to the accounts and
a list of the principal subsidiary undertakings, indicating their main activities, appears in note 34. Detailed information on
the Group’s activities can be found in the Chief Executive’s Review and the Operational Review on pages 6 to 15.
Lonmin Plc operates in South Africa as a branch which is registered in that country as an overseas company,
in addition to the business conducted by its subsidiary undertakings.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 62
Directors’ Report – Governance
4. The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
4.2 Business Review
The Companies Act 2006, Section 417 requires that the Directors present a Business Review in this report to inform
shareholders of the Company and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success
of the Company. The information that fulfils this requirement can be found in the sections set below and is incorporated
by reference into this report:
• The Chairman’s Letter on pages 4 and 5;
• The Chief Executive’s Review (including discussion of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development,
performance and position of the Company’s business) on pages 6 to 8;
• The Operational Review on pages 9 to 15;
• The Financial Review on pages 18 to 25;
• The discussion of Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 26 to 29;
• The Key Performance Indicators on pages 30 and 31 together with the Operational Statistics on pages 138 and 139; and
• The Sustainable Development Review on pages 32 to 51.
This Business Review has been prepared to provide the Company’s shareholders with a fair review of the business of
the Company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing it. It may not be relied upon by anyone,
including the Company’s shareholders, for any other purpose.
This Business Review and other sections of this report contain forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-
looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and / or
depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ
materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward looking statements. No assurance can be given that the forward
looking statements in this Business Review will be realised. Statements about the Directors’ expectations, beliefs, hopes,
plans, intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions as
to future events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases outside the Company’s control. The information
contained in this Business Review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to Directors
at the date of its preparation and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise this Business Review
during the financial year ahead. It is believed that the expectations set out in these forward looking statements are
reasonable, but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or trends to differ
materially. The forward looking statements should be read in particular in the context of the specific risk factors for the
Company identified in this Business Review. The Company’s shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
the forward-looking statements. Shareholders should note that this Business Review has not been audited or otherwise
independently verified.
4.3 Principal events of the year
The principal events of the year are covered in detail in the Chief Executive’s Review and in the remainder of the Business
Review. However, from a statutory perspective the key events were as follows:
• On 1 October 2008 (being the first day of the period under review) Xstrata plc announced that, in light of uncertainty in
the financial markets and due to certain terms of their finance arrangements, it would not proceed with an unsolicited,
proposed pre-conditional offer for the entire issued share capital of the Company at a price of £33 per share first
mooted on 6 August 2008. Xstrata subsequently acquired an additional 22,232,940 shares in the Company which,
together with those shares already held, totalled 38,939,421 shares and represented 24.9% of the then issued share
capital of the Company;
• On 11 May 2009, the Company announced a 2 for 9 underwritten Rights Issue of 35,072,129 New Shares at 900
pence per New Share and, in the case of shareholders registered on the South African branch register, at ZAR 113.04
per New Share. On 3 June 2009, being the latest date of receipt of valid acceptances, the Company had received
acceptances in respect of 33,801,585 New Shares, representing approximately 96.38% of the total number of New
Shares offered to shareholders. Citigroup and JPMorgan Cazenove, being the Company’s underwriters, were able to
procure subscribers for the remaining 1,270,544 New Shares at an average price of 1433.01 pence per New Share.
The net proceeds of the Rights Issue raised approximately US$458 million and as a result significantly strengthened
the Company’s overall financial position.
There were no material changes from 30 September 2009 to the date of this report.
4.4 Employees
The Group employs around 22,000 people in South Africa. Information on the Group’s policies on employee recruitment and
engagement can be found in the Sustainable Development Review on pages 32 to 51.
4.5 Research and development
Group companies continue to be actively involved in research and development projects in the areas of mineral extraction
and refining.
4.6 Policy on the payment of creditors
The Company complies with, and has registered its support of, the Better Payment Practice Code, available from the Better
Payment Practice Group website, www.payontime.co.uk. The Company has a consistent policy and practice of paying its
bills in accordance with contracts by settling the terms of payment with its suppliers when agreeing the terms of each
transaction, either by accepting suppliers’ standard terms of payment or by proposing alternative terms but, in either case,
then abiding by the agreed payment terms. Trade creditors of the Company at 30 September 2009 represented 11 days
(2008 – 5 days) of its annual purchases. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 63
Directors’ Report – Governance
4. The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
4.7 Charitable and political donations
No political donations were made during the year. Lonmin has an established policy of not making donations to any political
party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Charitable donations made by the Group during the year in the United Kingdom amounted to £34,659 ($50,868)
(2008 – £33,083 ($65,470)). During the year, the Group funded a number of long-term social welfare and community development
projects. The Group’s funding for these projects for the year amounted to R4 million ($0.5 million) (2008 – R5.2 million
($0.7 million)). These amounts are in addition to amounts expensed by the Group as the normal costs of the operation
of its corporate social responsibility programme. A fuller explanation of this expenditure will be contained in the Web-based
Sustainable Development Report for the year ended 30 September 2009 which can be downloaded from the
Company’s website.
4.8 Share capital and reserves
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company at 30 September 2009 is set out in note 26 to the accounts. The
rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of the ordinary
shares are governed by law and the Company’s Articles of Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to receive notice of any general
meeting, to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy and are entitled to participate in any
distribution of income or capital.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them except where the
Company has exercised its rights to suspend voting rights or to prohibit transfer.
The share capital comprises 50,000 sterling deferred shares in addition to the ordinary shares. These shares were
created in 2002 and issued to a nominee company by the capitalisation of reserves, in order to comply with the requirement
that a public limited company must have a minimum share capital of £50,000 in sterling. These shares do not rank pari
passu with the ordinary shares of the Company. The holders of such shares are not entitled to receive notice of any general
meeting or to attend, speak or vote at any general meeting, nor are they entitled to participate in any distribution of income
or capital.
The trustee of the Lonmin Employee Share Trust does not seek to exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares held in
trust.
The total share capital and reserves attributable to the Group amounted to $2,417 million at 30 September 2009. This
compares with $2,147 million at 30 September 2008.
4.9 Use of authorities granted at the 2009 Annual General Meeting
At the AGM held on 29 January 2009, shareholders approved an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its
own shares, up to a maximum of 15,700,000 shares (being approximately 10% of the issued share capital) at prices not less
than the nominal value of each share (being $1) and not exceeding 105% of the average mid-market price for the preceding
five business days. The Company made no purchases of its own shares during the year and no shares were acquired by
forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
During the year, the Company allotted 36,671,027 ordinary shares of $1 each, for cash, following the 2 for 9 Rights
Issue, to satisfy the exercise of the final tranche of an option granted to the International Finance Corporation, to satisfy the
exercise of options or the vesting of awards granted under the Company’s share schemes and to provide the Company’s
employee benefit trust with sufficient shares to meet its obligations in connection with employees’ share schemes.
4.10 Amendment of the Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the
shareholders.
As noted above, a special resolution proposing the adoption of new Articles of Association to accommodate the final
provisions within the Companies Act 2006 will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. Further details are set out in the
circular accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts.
4.11 Essential contractual arrangements
Certain Group companies are party to contracts and other arrangements which the Board judges are essential to the
business of the Company.
For any mining company, its mineral rights and mining licences are of crucial importance and therefore the New Order
Mining Licence granted by the South African government’s Department of Minerals and Energy to certain Group companies
in respect of the Marikana operations falls into this category, as do the old order mining rights in respect of the Limpopo
operations and the various prospecting rights held by Group companies.
The remaining essential contractual arrangements can be summarised as follows:
• Contracts for the purchase of inputs – while most of the supplies needed to operate the Group’s mines and refining
facilities are secured through competitive tendering in the open market, the Group is heavily dependent on Eskom for
the supply of electricity, and Rand Water in respect of the supply of water. The Company does not believe that it has
any debt facilities which could not be replaced in the open market.
• Contracts relating to labour and services – the principal arrangements essential to our business are collective
agreements with trade unions representing the majority of the Group’s employees, most notably with the National Union
of Mineworkers in South Africa
• Contracts for the sale of goods – certain Group companies are party to separate contracts with BASF and Mitsubishi,
under which substantially the whole of the Group’s production of finished metal for the period under review was sold.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 64
Directors’ Report – Governance
4. The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
4.12 Significant Agreements – change of control
A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid,
such as debt facilities and employee share plans. None of these are deemed to be significant except for the Company’s
banking facilities in the amount of $875 million spread across three separate facilities with the counterparties generally being
syndicates of different banks. These facilities contain provisions which, in the event new terms to continue the facility are not
agreed within 25 days of a change of control, the lender is entitled to give notice cancelling the facility and declaring all
outstanding loans together with accrued interest to become payable within 15 days of such notice.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of
office or employment resulting from a takeover except that certain provisions in some of the Company’s share plans may be
triggered. These are briefly described below and further information on these plans and on the Directors’ service agreements
can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 72 to 89.
Awards made under the Stay & Prosper Plan crystallise immediately following a change of control, although they vest
and become payable on their normal maturity date (three years from the date of grant) and subject generally to continued
employment of the participant. Directors of the Company are not permitted to hold awards under this Plan.
Awards under the remainder of the share plans will vest to the extent specified by the Remuneration Committee, who
will generally take into account the extent to which the performance targets have been met and such other factors as they
believe to be appropriate in line with the rules of the relevant plans.
5. Accountability and Audit
5.1 What are the Directors’ responsibilities in this area?
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (‘IFRSs’) and applicable law and they have elected to prepare the parent
company financial statements in accordance with the UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice).
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select and maintain suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the
EU;
• for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and
the parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud
and other irregularities and to establish and maintain principles, policies and procedures relating to financial risk
management.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on
the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors’ Responsibility Statement can be found on page 91. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 65
Directors’ Report – Governance
5. Accountability and audit (continued)
5.2 How have the Directors discharged their responsibilities in this area?
• The Lonmin Group financial statements are presented in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU. The Group
adopted the US Dollar as its reporting currency in 1998.
• Details of the Group’s financial risk management are described in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 25 and in the
Statement on Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 26 to 29 of this report.
• The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future
and that it is, therefore, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. The
Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient
borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Group’s foreseeable cash
requirements. Please refer to the going concern disclosure in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 25 of this report.
5.3 Relationships with the external auditors
The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on the financial statements and certain other
disclosures prepared by the Directors. KPMG Audit plc acted as the external auditors to the Lonmin Group throughout the
year. The lead audit partner is based in London and supported by a second audit partner based in Johannesburg.
As required under section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, so far as each current Director is aware, there is no
information relevant to the audit of which the Company’s auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that
he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any such information and to ensure that the
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the Annual
General Meeting.
6. The Audit and Risk Committee
6.1 What is the role of the Audit and Risk Committee?
The Audit and Risk Committee is a formal Committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of
Association. Its terms of reference were reviewed by the Board in January 2007 and are compliant with the provisions of the
Combined Code. A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Company’s website and sets out the primary purposes
of the Audit and Risk Committee, which are:
• To monitor the integrity of the Company’s financial statements and announcements relating to its financial performance
and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements;
• To keep under review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls and risk management systems;
• To monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its material findings; and
• To oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement,
monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness and ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to
provide non-audit services is appropriately applied.
The Committee is authorised to investigate any matters within its terms of reference, access all Group documents and
information, seek information from any Director or employee of the Group and co-opt any resources (including external
professional assistance) it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties. However, the Committee has no executive function and its
primary objective is to review and challenge rather than assume responsibility for any matters within its remit. Minutes of all
meetings of the Committee (save those recording private discussions with either the internal or external auditors) are
circulated to all Directors and supplemented by a written or verbal update from the Committee Chairman at the next Board
meeting, identifying any matters in respect of which action or improvement is required and making recommendations where
appropriate. The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of
this report and the Committee Chairman attends all general meetings of the Company’s shareholders to answer any
questions on the Committee’s activities.
6.2 Who are the members of the Audit and Risk Committee?
All independent Directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Board, are eligible to become members of the
Committee, which comprised the following members, any two of whom form a quorum, during the year and to the date of
this report. All members of the Committee must be financially literate.
• Michael Hartnall: an independent Director and a chartered accountant, Mr Hartnall was formerly the finance director of
Rexam plc, a multinational manufacturer of consumer packaging. He was also a member of the Hampel Committee
which produced the first version of the Combined Code in 1998. The Board has judged that he has the significant,
recent and relevant financial experience necessary to chair the Committee.
• Karen de Segundo: an independent Director and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee since 2005.
• Jim Sutcliffe: an independent Director who joined the Committee in 2007. Mr Sutcliffe is also a director of the Financial
Reporting Council.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 66
Directors’ Report – Governance
6. The Audit and Risk Committee (continued)
6.2 Who are the members of the Audit and Risk Committee? (continued)
Biographical details of each Director are set out on page 53 of this document. Each member receives an annual fee of
£10,000 for serving as a member of the Committee, or £17,500 in the case of the Chairman. These fees are included in the
table of Directors’ remuneration on page 77. All members of the Committee are provided with appropriate induction into the
role of the Committee and the operation of its terms of reference on appointment. Access to training is provided on an
ongoing basis to ensure that members are able to discharge their duties.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the VP Finance (UK), the VP
Treasury and Risk, the Head of Internal Audit and the Assistant Company Secretary (who acts as secretary to the
Committee), none of whom do so as of right. The internal and external auditors attend all Committee meetings and a private
meeting is routinely held with them to afford the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management.
6.3 How often did the Committee meet, and who attended?
The Committee met six times during the year. Attendance at these meetings was as follows:
Number of meetings Number of
Director held during time in office meetings attended
Michael Hartnall 66
Karen de Segundo 66
Jim Sutcliffe 66
6.4 Activities of the Audit and Risk Committee
The Committee reports its material findings and decisions to the next Board meeting, and copies of the minutes are
circulated to all Directors. The principal business of these meetings was:
November:
• review of the annual reporting documents (including the accounts) and consideration of whether to recommend the
same to the Board;
• assessment of any material exercises of judgement by management;
• consideration of the ‘going concern’ statement;
• consideration of the letter of representation from management to the external auditors relating to the accounts;
• receipt of a report from the external auditors following their review of the full year accounts;
• review of the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors and formulation of a recommendation
to the Board as to whether or not their reappointment should be proposed to shareholders;
• review of non audit services provided by the external auditors during the year and approval of the fees for the year;
• private meeting with the external auditors;
• review of the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems during the year prepared by management,
including a review of outstanding external and internal audit actions;
• review of a report on the internal controls environment prepared by the external auditors;
• review feedback from management confirmation letters completed by senior management;
• review of matters reported to the external whistleblowing hotline.
March (in South Africa):
• review of matters arising from the prior year audit;
• review external auditors’ plan for the half year review and full year audit and approve the fees and engagement letter for
the same;
• review internal audit report including an overview of performance against the internal audit plan for the year;
• private meeting with the internal auditors;
• review of risk management report including results of the “bottom-up” and “top-down” risk reviews;
• review management assessment of the internal control framework.
May:
• review of the interim report (including the accounts) and consideration of whether to recommend the same to the Board;
• assessment of any material exercises of judgement by management;
• consideration of the letter of representation from management to the external auditors relating to the interim accounts;
• receipt of a report from the external auditors following their review of the interim accounts;
• private meeting with the external auditors;
• review of risk management report;
• review of outstanding internal and external audit points;
• review of non audit services provided by the external auditors year to date;
• receive an update on the insurance renewal. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 67
Directors’ Report – Governance
6. The Audit and Risk Committee (continued)
6.4 Activities of the Audit and Risk Committee (continued)
September (in South Africa):
• review internal audit report including an update on outstanding internal and external audit points;
• approval of the scope and focus of the internal audit programme and internal audit budget for the forthcoming financial year;
• further review and final confirmation of the external auditors’ plan for the year end audit;
• review of a report on the internal controls environment prepared by the external auditors;
• review of risk management report including key risks facing the Group following ‘top down’ and ‘bottom up’ risk reviews
and assessment of internal control framework;
• feedback on issues identified during the prior year’s Management Confirmation Letter;
• review and approve the renewal terms and scope of cover of the Group’s insurance programme;
• review of matters reported to the external whistleblowing hotline;
• review of investigations report;
• consider the effectiveness of the internal auditors;
• consider the effectiveness of the Committee and the Committee’s Chairman.
The other two scheduled meetings are held solely to approve the quarterly and half year production reports, which
incorporate the Company’s interim management statements.
In addition to the routine business described above, the Committee also undertook the following activities during the
year and in the period to the date of this report:
• review of treasury procedures and approval of a treasury operational manual, after evaluation of assessment of these
by the external auditors;
• review of a report on compliance with legal and regulatory issues;
• review of cash flow and working capital forecasts.
6.5 Is the Committee effective?
The Committee assessed its effectiveness at a meeting in September 2009. To do so, a questionnaire was circulated to
members of the Committee, the internal and external auditors and members of the management team who assist the Audit
and Risk Committee in their work, which then formed the basis of a discussion. The questionnaire focused on the
effectiveness of the Committee, the flow of information, relationships with management and advisors, appropriateness of the
terms of reference and the composition of the Committee. All of these views were summarised into a formal report to the
Board by the Chairman. The Committee separately discussed the effectiveness of the Chairman of the Committee (in his
absence) which also formed part of the report to the Board. Whilst no material issues were identified during this process,
the Committee believed that it may be appropriate to consider appointing an additional member with mining experience.
A preference was also expressed for continuing engagement with management, to improve their detailed understanding of
certain highly technical aspects of the business. On balance, the Committee concluded that it was effective.
6.6 How does the Company address internal audit?
The recently-appointed Head of Internal Audit recruited a team of four in-house auditors during the year, all of whom are
based in South Africa. In addition, PwC have been appointed to provide specialist internal audit services. The Head of
Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, with a joint reporting line to the VP , Treasury and
Risk. A total of 34 assignments were undertaken during the year across a broad cross-section of activities identified by both
management and the Committee. Internal audit reports are reviewed with operational management and then delivered to the
executive management team, including the Chief Financial Officer. Material findings and recommendations are summarised
to the Committee, who receive regular updates on progress in addressing the matters raised by internal audits.
The Head of Internal Audit is also responsible for the Company’s whistle-blowing programme and heads up the
investigations unit comprising 11 investigators.
A review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function was carried out during the year by way of a questionnaire
circulated to the senior management team. Having considered the results of this survey and a number of other factors,
including the communication and impartiality of the internal audit function, the Committee concluded that the internal audit
function was in all respects effective.
6.7 How does the Committee manage the external auditors?
The external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, may not be engaged on any material non-audit work without the prior approval
of the Audit and Risk Committee who are responsible for the annual work plan and fee budget for the auditors. As policy,
the Committee would not allow the external auditors to perform any work that they may subsequently need to audit or which
might otherwise either create a conflict of interests or affect the auditor’s objectivity and independence. The Committee also
monitors the balance between audit and non-audit related spend to ensure that auditor independence can be shown to be
maintained. The Chief Financial Officer is permitted to engage the external auditors on matters that do not create such
conflicts or otherwise compromise the audit firm subject to an annual fee ceiling of $100,000.
Non-audit fees incurred during the year amounted to $1.0 million (2008 – $1.5 million) and relate primarily to the Rights
Issue. The Committee is satisfied that the overall level of non-audit fees is not material relative to the income of the audit
offices and firm as a whole, and that the nature of the services provided are appropriate and in line with the Company’s
policies in this area.
The Audit and Risk Committee appraised the independence and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their
effectiveness as external auditors before reaching the recommendation to the Board that their re-election should be
proposed to shareholders. In arriving at its decision, consideration was also given to the expertise, resources and the
professional standing of KPMG within the market.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 68
Directors’ Report – Governance
7. Nomination Committee Report
7.1 What is the role of the Nomination Committee?
The Nomination Committee is a formal Committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of
Association. Its remit is set out in terms of reference that were formally adopted by the Board in November 2006. These
are available from the Company and are displayed on its website.
The primary purposes of the Committee are:
• To ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills,
knowledge and experience of the Board is undertaken;
• In consultation with the Chairman, to recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to
instigate and manage the recruitment process;
• To ensure the Company’s adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above; and
• To oversee compliance with the Combined Code and other applicable corporate governance regulation.
7.2 Who are the members of the Nomination Committee?
During the time the Board was considering the appointment of a successor to Sir John Craven, two policy decisions were
taken. Firstly, the Board felt strongly that it was important for all non-executive Directors to have equal input into appointment
decisions as they ultimately affected the performance and dynamics of the Board as a whole. As a result, all non-executive
Directors were invited to become (and duly became) members of the Committee. Secondly it was expected that the Chairman of
the Board should always chair the Committee, save when matters pertaining to himself or his successor were under consideration.
The quorum for a meeting of the Committee remains two members. The members of the Committee are considered to
be wholly independent.
Each member receives an annual fee of £7,500 and the Chairman £12,500. These fees are included in the table of
Directors’ remuneration on page 77 and a detailed breakdown is provided on the same page. Biographical details of each
Director are set out on page 53 of this document.
The Committee is supported by the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and it
has full access to the Chief Executive Officer. It is also empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other
professional advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work and to co-opt such resources as it requires in fulfilling its duties.
7.3 How often did the Committee meet, and who attended?
The Committee met six times during the year. Attendance at these meetings was as follows:
Number of meetings Number of
Director held during time in office meetings attended
Sir John Craven 30
1
Karen de Segundo 32
Peter Godsoe 66
Sivi Gounden 33
Michael Hartnall 66
Jonathan Leslie 10
2
David Munro 32
Roger Phillimore 65
2
Jim Sutcliffe 33
1 The prime focus of these meetings was to discuss matters relating to the succession to the Chairmanship. In line with best practice, Sir John
recused himself from these meetings.
2 Each chose to recuse himself from one meeting, the sole purpose of which was to consider matters relating to his own appointments.
7.4 Activities of the Nomination Committee
The Committee reports its material findings and decisions to the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes are
circulated to all Directors. During the year, the Committee undertook the following:
• reviewed the Committee’s report within the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts and recommended approval of this to the
Board;
• approved extensions to the terms of office for Karen de Segundo and Sivi Gounden following their re-election by
shareholders, to expire when they next submit themselves for re-election in January 2011;
• commenced and oversaw a formal process to search for a successor to Sir John Craven as Chairman of the Board;
• reviewed Roger Phillimore’s committee appointments in the light of best practice, and accepted his offer to step down
as a member of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees;
• recommended to the Board that Jim Sutcliffe be appointed as a member and subsequently chairman of the
Remuneration Committee and
• recommended to the Board that Jonathan Leslie be appointed as a director and to membership of the Nomination,
Remuneration and Safety and Sustainability Committees.
Normally, the Committee would assess the effectiveness of those who were seeking re-election at the AGM. However,
as the three directors retiring at the 2009 AGM were at that time also the sole members of the Committee, the Board was
asked to undertake this task. Each of Sir John Craven, Michael Hartnall and Roger Phillimore was found to be fully effective,
to demonstrate commitment to their roles and to have retained independent judgement in all respects. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 69
Directors’ Report – Governance
7. Nomination Committee Report (continued)
7.5 Policy on appointments to the Board
All recommendations for Board appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria. A job specification is drawn
up which includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of the time commitment required. Generally, the
Committee will engage executive search consultants to assist in ensuring a comprehensive listing of potential candidates for
the Committee’s consideration.
7.6 Is the Committee effective?
In November 2009 the Committee assessed its effectiveness and, in his absence, that of the Chairman of the Committee.
The views expressed were summarised to the Board and there were no matters arising which the Committee or the Board
felt necessitated change.
8. Safety and Sustainability Committee Report
8.1 What is the role of the Safety and Sustainability Committee?
The Safety and Sustainability Committee is a formal committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the
Articles of Association. Its terms of reference were most recently reviewed by the Board in March 2008 and are available on
the Company’s website.
The primary purposes of the Committee are:
• To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board and, as necessary to the Audit and Risk Committee, on safety and
sustainability including health, environment and community matters, and particularly as pertaining to the risk and
management of these issues within the Group;
• To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board on the Group’s compliance with applicable legal and regulatory
requirements associated with safety and sustainability;
• To assess the effectiveness of management’s attitudes and approach towards, and activities in, managing safety and
sustainability related risk;
• To assess periodically the effectiveness of the Group’s policies, standards and systems for identifying and managing
safety and sustainability related risk;
• To review significant safety and environmental incidents and consider causative factors, consequences and actions
including the impact on employees and third parties and reputational risk;
• To review the Group’s performance indicators in connection with safety and sustainability matters;
• To review the Group’s public disclosures on safety and sustainability matters and approve these as necessary; and
• To report to the Board on developments, trends and / or forthcoming significant legislation on safety and sustainability
matters which may be relevant to the Group’s operations, its assets or employees.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any matter within its terms of reference, to seek any relevant
information that it requires from any Director or employee of the Group and to co-opt any resources it may require to
undertake its duties. The Committee is also authorised to obtain independent legal or other professional advice if it considers
this necessary.
In line with the other Committees of the Board, the Safety and Sustainability Committee does not have any executive
power and the Directors and operational managers retain their full responsibility and accountability for the management of
safety and sustainability matters in the Group.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committee are circulated to all Directors and supplemented by a verbal update from the
Committee’s chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any material matters which arose from the Committee’s work.
The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of this
section of the Directors’ Report. More detailed information concerning the Group’s sustainability related activities are set out
on pages 32 to 51, are available on the Company’s website and in the Web-based Sustainable Development Report.
8.2 Who are the members of the Safety and Sustainability Committee?
The terms of reference for this Committee require a minimum of two independent Non-executive Directors, one of whom
shall be the Chairman of the Committee, and one executive Director. The Board may, on the recommendation of the
Nomination Committee, appoint or remove members of the Committee, subject to there being at least three members at all
times. At the request of the Committee’s Chairman, certain senior executives attend all meetings of the Committee.
The Committee comprised the following members during the year and to the date of this report, except where stated
otherwise:
• Sivi Gounden: an independent Director who has been a member of the Committee and its Chairman since November 2006.
Dr Gounden, a South African national resident in that country, has significant experience of the mining industry globally,
and in South Africa in particular. Dr Gounden resigned as a Director on 16 October 2007.
• Karen de Segundo: an independent Director who has been a member of the Committee since January 2007. Formerly
Chief Executive Officer of Shell International Renewables and Chief Executive of Shell’s global gas and power business.
• David Munro: an independent Director who joined the Board in August 2007 and was appointed to the Safety and
Sustainability Committee on 21 September 2007. Mr Munro is a mining engineer with significant experience of the
mining sector, both internationally and in South Africa.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 70
Directors’ Report – Governance
8. Safety and Sustainability Committee Report (continued)
8.2 Who are the members of the Safety and Sustainability Committee? (continued)
• Jonathan Leslie: an independent Director who joined the Board in June 2009 and was appointed to the Safety and
Sustainability Committee on 2 July 2009. Mr Leslie has significant experience of the mining industry, having spent twenty
six years with Rio Tinto in a variety of operational management roles.
• Ian Farmer: an executive Director and Chief Executive of the Company who has been a member of the Committee since
September 2008.
Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on page 53. Each of the Non-executive Directors on this
Committee receives an annual fee of £7,500 for serving as a member or, in the case of the Chairman, £12,500. These fees
are included in the table of Directors’ remuneration on page 77 of this document.
All members of the Committee are provided with appropriate induction into the role of the Committee and the operation
of its terms of reference on appointment. Members are also offered opportunities to visit the operations and community
projects with which the Company is involved.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief Operating Officer, the Executive Manager, Technical Services
(previously by the VP Exploration and Business Development) and the Assistant Company Secretary (who acts as secretary
to the Committee), none of whom do so as of right.
8.3 How often did the Committee meet and who attended?
The Committee met five times during the year. Attendance at these meetings was as follows:
Number of meetings Number of
Director / senior executives held during time in office meetings attended
Sivi Gounden
1
54
Jonathan Leslie
2
11
David Munro 55
Karen de Segundo 55
Ian Farmer 54
Chief Operating Officer 55
VP Exploration and Business Development
3
11
Executive Manager, Technical Services
4
22
1 To 16 October 2009
2 From 2 July 2009
3 To 31 January 2009
4 From 1 July 2009
8.4 Activities of the Safety and Sustainability Committee
The Committee reports its material findings and decisions to the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes are circulated
to all Directors. Although the Committee met five times during the year, one of these meetings was specifically to review the
ICAM findings from a fatal incident. The business at the scheduled meetings was:
November:
• review of safety statistics and trend analysis;
• review of environmental statistics and trend analysis;
• review key environmental risks;
• review feedback from external auditors on the Sustainable Development Reports;
• review and approve the summary and full Sustainable Development Reports and recommend the same to the Board;
• review and approve Safety and Sustainability Committee report contained within the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts
and recommend the same to the Board.
March (South Africa):
• review of safety statistics and trend analysis;
• review of environmental statistics and trend analysis;
• review of health indicators and update on community health issues;
July:
• review of safety statistics and trend analysis;
• review of environmental statistics and trend analysis.
September (in South Africa):
• review of safety statistics and trend analysis;
• review of environmental statistics and trend analysis;
• review performance against Social and Labour Plan targets;
• review expenditure and progress on community projects. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 71
Directors’ Report – Governance
8. Safety and Sustainability Committee Report (continued)
8.4 Activities of the Safety and Sustainability Committee (continued)
In addition to the routine business described above, the Committee also undertook the following activities during the
year and in the period to the date of this report:
• Reviews of ICAM reports on all serious incidents, including fatalities (being a detailed analysis of factors contributing to
these incidents and the corrective and preventative measures that were taken to prevent recurrence) presented by the
executive responsible for the relevant parts of the Group’s business;
• Review of a report on changes to the environmental and regulatory regime and impact on the Company;
• Review results of the Presidential Safety Audit;
• Review update on the Mine Health and Safety Bill;
• Community visits to local school to see first hand the refurbishment and school nutrition programme and meet members
of the community who receive home based care visits provided by the Company; and
• Review feedback from a survey commissioned by the International Platinum Association to develop best practice
guidelines.
8.5 Is the Committee effective?
The Committee assessed its effectiveness in November 2009 and concluded that it was in all respects effective.
9. Executive Committee
The members of the Executive Committee are the Executive Directors and those key senior executives whose biographical
details are set out on page 54. The Chief Executive is Chairman of the Committee. The Committee meets once every month
and holds weekly phone calls and its responsibilities include the following key areas:
• review the operational and financial performance of the Group and the achievement of business plans;
• prioritise initiatives and allocate resource;
• identify and drive efficiencies across the Group;
• approve capital expenditure proposals within the authority levels delegated by the Board and otherwise refer to Board;
• develop the Group’s policies and practices in respect of all health, safety and environmental issues in compliance with
local legal requirements, regulation and best practice;
• identify risks and monitor progress of action plans to mitigate those risks;
• review the adequacy of the internal control framework; and
• develop and implement Group wide evaluation, training, reward and remuneration practices.
10. Operations Committee
The members of the Operations Committee are members of the Executive Committee and a wider group of operational and
functional executives and senior managers across the Group. The Chief Operating Officer is Chairman of the Committee. The
Committee meets once every month and its primary responsibilities are to:
• assess operational and financial performance across a number of areas including mining, processing, technical services,
human capital, safety, environment and health;
• monitor progress of various initiatives; and
• provide a forum to debate business issues between various parts of the business value chain.
11. Price and Risk Committee
The Price and Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and the members are the Chief Financial Officer, Chief
Commercial Officer, VP Treasury & Risk, VP Finance (UK), VP Finance (SA) and the Executive Manager, Marketing. The
primary purpose of this Committee is to review and agree proposals in relation to the forward sale of by-products, for
example nickel and copper. The Committee meets as and when required.
For and on behalf of the Board
Rob Bellhouse
Company Secretary
13 November 2009
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 72
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
The report below has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board. KPMG Audit Plc have audited
the following items stipulated in law for their review:
• The table of Directors’ remuneration and associated footnotes on page 77, and the disclosure of the items comprising the
Directors’ benefits in kind.
• The disclosure of Directors’ defined contribution pension arrangements on page 79.
• The table of Directors’ share options and awards and associated footnotes on pages 87 and 88.
Remuneration Committee
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is a formal committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of
Association. Its remit is set out in terms of reference formally adopted by the Board which were last reviewed in November 2005.
A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Company’s website. The Committee’s main responsibilities are to:
• Make recommendations to the Board on the Company’s executive remuneration policy;
• Determine individual remuneration packages within that policy for the executive Directors and certain senior executives;
• Oversee the operation of the Company’s incentive schemes;
• Review Directors’ expenses; and
• Oversee the Company’s executive pension arrangements,
all of which it carries out on behalf of the Board.
The Committee is authorised to seek information from any Director or employee of the Group and co-opt any resources
(including external professional assistance) it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties. Minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all
Directors and supplemented by a verbal update from the Committee Chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any material
matters which arose from the Committee’s work. The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other
interested parties by means of this report and the Committee Chairman attends the Annual General Meeting to answer any
questions on the Committee’s activities.
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
All independent Directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Board, are eligible to become members of the Committee.
The Board is empowered to appoint or remove members. Any two members of the Committee form a quorum. The Committee
comprised the following independent Directors during the year and to the date of this report:
Member From To
Roger Phillimore (Chairman to 6 March 2009) 20 September 2002 31 March 2009
Peter Godsoe 20 September 2002 To date
Jonathan Leslie 2 July 2009 To date
Michael Hartnall 8 May 2003 To date
David Munro 21 September 2007 6 March 2009
Jim Sutcliffe (Chairman from 6 March 2009) 28 January 2009 To date
Given their diverse backgrounds and experience, the Board believes that the Committee members are able to offer a
balanced view on executive remuneration issues. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief Executive, the HR Director and the Company Secretary, none of whom
do so as of right and who do not attend when their own remuneration is being discussed.
Advisors to the Remuneration Committee
Throughout the year, the Committee was assisted in its work by the London office of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , an
independent firm of remuneration consultants who were appointed by, and report to, the Committee but who also supported
management in developing and implementing remuneration proposals, and in providing IFRS2 valuations for the Company. During
the year the South African practice of PricewaterhouseCoopers was engaged by the Company to provide specialist support to
the internal audit function. The Committee is confident that this does not generate a conflict of interest for either party and that
the sums payable in respect of each service would not compromise the objectiveness and impartiality of the other.
In making its decisions, the Committee consults with the Chief Executive and HR Director in relation to remuneration of
executive Directors and senior executives.
In addition, the following advisors have been retained on behalf of the Company, and provide information to the Committee on
relevant matters being considered by the Committee:
Herbert Smith LLP – legal services in respect of employment law and company share schemes.
Allen and Overy LLP – legal services in respect of pensions advice.
AIBJerseytrust Limited and Killik Employee Share Services – respectively, trustee services and administrative support on
various share schemes. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 73
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Remuneration Committee (continued)
Activities of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee normally meets four times annually and reports its material findings to the next Board meeting. It has a standing
calendar of items within its remit and in addition discusses matters arising relating to the operation of the remuneration policy.
During the year, the Committee met seven times and discussed, amongst other things, the issues set out below:
Meeting Standing Agenda items Other Agenda items
October • Approval of vesting of 2005 LTIP and S&P
awards.
• Termination of Brad Mills’ contract of
employment.
• Approval of remuneration for new CEO, Ian
Farmer.
November • Review and approval of changes to or affecting • Approval of treatment of share awards by
those within the Committee’s purview. reason of redundancy as a result of the
• Approval of prior year’s annual bonus payments. restructuring programme.
• Review and approval of design of current year’s
annual bonus plan.
• Approval of offer of Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
(DABP) awards including setting the performance
condition.
• Approval of DABP vesting.
• Review of status of performance conditions
attaching to outstanding awards.
• Approval of the Remuneration Committee Report
and any relevant Annual General Meeting business.
• Review of Directors’ expenses for the quarter
to end September.
March • Review and approval of changes to or affecting
those within the Committee’s purview.
• Review of projected short-term incentives
for the current year.
• Review of status of performance conditions
attaching to outstanding awards.
• Review of Directors’ expenses for the quarter
to end December.
May • Approval of principle of adjustment to
outstanding option and share awards following
possible launch of Rights Issue.
• Approval of choices to be offered in connection
with proposed Rights Issue to holders of invested
shares under the DABP .
June • Approval of actual adjustment to outstanding
options and share awards following Rights Issue.
July • Review and approval of changes to or affecting • Review of Non-executive Directors’ fees.
those within the Committee’s purview.
• Review of projected short-term incentives for
the current year.
• Approval of awards to be made under the Long Term
Incentive Plan (LTIP) and Stay & Prosper Plan (S&P)
including setting of performance condition.
• Approval of LTIP and S&P vesting.
• Review of status of performance conditions attaching
to outstanding awards.
• Review of Directors’ expenses for the quarter
to end March.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 74
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Remuneration Committee (continued)
Activities of the Remuneration Committee (continued)
Meeting Standing Agenda items Other Agenda items
September* • Review and approval of changes to or affecting • Review and approval of incentive arrangements
those within the Committee’s purview. for London office employees and Alan Ferguson,
• Salary review for executive Directors and and relocation expenses for Ian Farmer, as a
senior executives. result of relocation of operational headquarters
• Review of projected short-term incentives from London to Johannesburg.
for the current year.
• Review of remuneration strategy for the new financial
year including design of the short-term incentive plan.
• Review of status of performance conditions attaching
to outstanding awards.
• Review of Directors’ expenses for the quarter
to end June.
• Review of the effectiveness of the Committee
and its Chairman.
* For diary reasons, this meeting was actually held on 5 October 2009.
Attendance at the Committee meetings was as follows:
Number of meetings Number of
Member held during time in office meetings attended
Peter Godsoe 77
Michael Hartnall 77
Jonathan Leslie 11
David Munro 44
Roger Phillimore 44
Jim Sutcliffe 55
The Combined Code
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year, complied with all of the provisions relating to Directors’
remuneration set out in the Combined Code.
Relations with shareholders
The Committee is strongly committed to open and transparent dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters. The
Committee consults extensively with key institutional investors and various representative bodies to obtain their views on, and
support for, proposed changes to the remuneration packages of the Directors and senior executives.
During August 2009 a number of meetings were held with key institutional shareholders and with a representative body, the
Association of British Insurers. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Company’s HR Director attended these
meetings at which the Company’s remuneration policy was outlined. Feedback from these meetings was provided to the
Committee and will be factored into the Committee’s future deliberations.
REMUNERATION POLICY AND PRACTICE
Non-executive Directors
The Board, with the benefit of independent professional advice, determines the fees of the Non-executive Directors. When
deciding an appropriate level of fee for the responsibilities taken on by the Non-executive Directors, the Board considers the
responsibility and time commitment required to fulfil the role, taking into account the number of meetings required to be attended,
the time required for reading Board and other papers, the duties associated with membership or chairmanship of Board
Committees or (in the case of Roger Phillimore) chairmanship of the Board, and the overseas travel required of all Non-executive
Directors by the Company.
Executive Directors and senior executives
The Committee’s remuneration policy is geared towards providing a level of remuneration which attracts, retains and motivates
Directors and senior executives of a suitable calibre to execute the Company’s strategic plans but, at the same time, ensures
remuneration is consistent with best practice and aligned with the interests of the Company’s shareholders. Importantly, no
Director plays any part in setting his own remuneration.
In setting remuneration within this framework, the Committee seeks to give the individuals every encouragement to enhance
the Company’s performance whilst ensuring that they are fairly, but responsibly, rewarded for their personal contributions. It also
takes into account levels of pay and rates of annual increase elsewhere in the Group. The Committee’s strategy is a carefully
balanced blend of fixed and performance-related pay geared to deliver over the short, medium and long-term. The Committee
also has regard to the significant level of competition for experienced, talented managers in the mining industry, both globally and
specifically within South Africa, and the need to ensure that the Company maintains an adequate ‘retention hold’ over its key
executives. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 75
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Remuneration Committee (continued)
Executive Directors and senior executives (continued)
The structure of the remuneration offered to the executive Directors and senior executives and the underlying principles on
which the package is predicated are detailed below.
Policy Basis of Delivery
Base salary
• Benchmarked against other UK listed companies of • Monthly in cash.
comparable size and (where appropriate) a peer group • Reviewed annually in September, with changes taking effect
of international companies in the mining sector. 1 October.
• Reflects market median levels based on role and
individual skill and experience.
• Linked to performance as measured in the annual
performance review (APR) process.
Pension
• Provides a market competitive level of provision with • Defined contribution funding or cash-settled salary
good flexibility while minimising risk to the Company. supplement at executive’s choice.
Annual Bonus
• Incentivises achievement of annual objectives • Balanced scorecard based on combination of corporate and
consistent with the short to medium term strategic personal objectives (further details on pages 79 and 80).
needs of the business. • Annually. For 2009 50% is paid in cash and 50% compulsorily
• Deferral into shares creates alignment with shareholders’ deferred in to shares (with no match).
interests by requiring executives to put value at risk.
• Retention incentive.
DABP
• Incentivises stretch performance. • Matching element of the DABP was not operated for 2009
• Forces alignment with shareholders’ interests by (refer Annual Bonus plan above).
requiring executives to put value at risk through • For earlier years, DABP was used with half of award subject to
compulsory deferral. stretching RTSR targets and half subject to demanding EBIT or
• Retention incentive. absolute share price targets (further details on page 81) and
measured over a 3 year period. Maximum reward will only
occur for upper quartile performance.
LTIP
• Intended to incentivise long-term value creation, align • Annual awards in restricted shares.
with shareholder interests through delivery in shares • For 2009, half of award subject to RTSR targets and half
and to aid retention of key personnel. subject to absolute share prices targets (further details on
• Upper quartile performance should lead to potential page 82) and measured over a 3 year period. Maximum reward
upper quartile total reward. will only occur for top decile performance.
Other benefits
• Provided on a market competitive basis. • Car or cash car allowance
• Fuel
• Private Medical plan
• Income continuance insurance
• Life assurance
2009 Summary
For 2009, in order to support a focus on important short-term operating goals, the annual bonus opportunity was increased,
together with a mandatory deferral into shares. In order to ensure that there was no change in the overall incentive opportunity,
executives were not eligible to earn matching awards on their deferred bonus. EBIT targets have been replaced by absolute share
price targets in view of the desire to focus on a clear measure of absolute shareholder value and given the uncertainties around
future EBIT as a result of the current economic climate. The face value of LTIP awards for executive Directors were unchanged;
however an additional performance condition was applied to the final 25% of the award.
Planned future policy changes
The Company does not anticipate any changes to the structure of executive Directors and senior executives remuneration
packages in 2010. In order to support a continuing focus on crucial short-term operating imperatives, the same annual bonus
opportunity will apply as for 2009, coupled with the same 50% compulsory deferral into shares. Executives will not be eligible to
earn any matching shares on their deferred bonus, in order to ensure that there is no increase in the overall incentive opportunity.
The LTIP policy will be unchanged.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 76
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Remuneration Committee (continued)
Benchmarking methodology
The Committee routinely analyses remuneration practices in two groups of comparable companies, the first being UK listed
businesses of comparable size and scope to Lonmin, the second (where appropriate to the role being assessed) being direct
international peers in the mining sector with whom the Company is in direct competition in the recruitment of experienced
executive talent. The aim of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure that our remuneration framework is competitive with the
latter without being out of step with the former. In this way, the Committee aims to avoid generating excessive reward for
Lonmin’s Directors and senior executives whilst ensuring that the Company’s reward structures are capable of reaching top
quartile levels, where justified by performance.
Full details of each element of the Directors’ remuneration packages are set out on page 77 together with an analysis on
page 78 showing the various elements of remuneration as a percentage of base salary.
Performance graphs
The primary role of the Directors is to deliver value to shareholders and it is against this backdrop that their remuneration must be
assessed. The graphs below show the value, at 30 September 2009, of £100 invested in Lonmin’s shares five years previously,
compared with the current value of the same amount invested at the same date in the FTSE 100 index, the FTSE All Share index
and the FTSE Mining Sector, assuming dividends are reinvested in each case. The Company is a constituent of all these indices
and the Board believes that these comparisons most fairly illustrate the Company’s performance in delivering value to
shareholders relative to both the market as a whole and its UK listed peers.
Sep
04
Sep
05
Sep
06
Sep
07
Sep
08
Sep
09
0
50
100
200
250
350
400
150
300
Lonmin – net total return FTSE 100 – net total return
Sep
04
Sep
05
Sep
06
Sep
07
Sep
08
Sep
09
Lonmin – net total return FTSE All-Share – net total return
0
50
100
150
250
350
400
200
300
Sep
04
Sep
05
Sep
06
Sep
07
Sep
08
Sep
09
0
50
100
150
250
350
400
200
300
Lonmin – net total return FTSE Mining – net total return
TSR v FTSE 100 TSR v FTSE All-Share
TSR v FTSE Mining 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 77
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Directors’ remuneration
The following table shows an analysis of remuneration settled in cash or at a cash cost for the individual Directors for the year
ended 30 September 2009. In addition, the executive Directors received long-term share incentives as detailed elsewhere in this
report. A reconciliation of total remuneration for each executive Director serving at the end of the year is shown in the charts on
the following page.
Pension / cash Payment on Total for Total for
Salary Benefits payment in lieu Short term termination of year to year to
or fees
1
in kind
2
of pension
3
incentives
4
employment
5
Other
6
30.09.09
7
30.09.08
£££ £ £££
Executive Directors
Ian Farmer 551,538 29,372 198,900 759,981 155,432 1,695,223 1,509,901
Alan Ferguson 487,600 17,356 146,280 673,757 – 1,324,993 932,439
Non-Executive Directors
Sir John Craven 68,635 68,635 207,500
Karen de Segundo 71,769 71,769 67,500
Peter Godsoe 67,500 67,500 67,500
Sivi Gounden 66,769 66,769 62,500
Michael Hartnall 88,750 88,750 89,433
Jonathan Leslie 22,885 22,885 –
David Munro 66,115 66,115 67,500
Roger Phillimore 226,972 226,972 125,000
Jim Sutcliffe 75,269 75,269 60,000
Former Director
Brad Mills 12,720 1,365,491 1,378,211 1,901,695
Total 5,153,091 5,090,968
1 Fees disclosed for Sir John Craven relate to the period 1 October 2008 to 29 January 2009 and for Jonathan Leslie to the period 4 June 2009 to
30 September 2009.
2 Benefits in kind comprise cars, fuel, healthcare and medical. The costs of life assurance and income continuance insurance are not reflected as the
Company is the named beneficiary of these policies, and they do not form part of the taxable pay of the Director concerned.
3 The figures disclosed relate to cash payments made in lieu of participation in the Company’s pension arrangements.
4 50% of the net bonus is subject to compulsory deferral into shares and the executive Directors have voluntarily decided to defer a further 25% into shares.
5 Brad Mills’ employment was terminated on 7 October 2008. In accordance with his service agreement, he received a payment of £1,365,491. He also
received a further payment of £386,880 in respect of bonus for the year ended 30 September 2008 which was reported in last year’s table of Directors’
remuneration. Full details are disclosed on page 89.
6 Other comprises gross proceeds following vesting of share awards and options and also dividend equivalents.
7 The Directors’ total emoluments for the year do not include any fair value share option / award charges.
8 Although the Group’s reporting currency is US Dollars, these figures are stated in Sterling as the Directors’ emoluments are paid in this currency.
9 No Director received any expense allowances during the year.
Non-executive Directors’ fees
The fees payable to the Non-executive Directors are set by the Board and are designed to ensure the Company attracts and
retains individuals of the highest calibre and is in line with recognised best practice. The Board commissions an independent
review of Non-executive Directors’ fees every two years, the most recent of which was conducted in June 2009. Following the
2009 review, no change was made to the Non-executive Directors’ base fees or the committee chairmanship and membership
fees. However, with effect from 1 July 2009, the Chairmanship Fee was increased to £200,000 per annum and a fee was
introduced for the Senior Independent Director of £15,000 per annum. A detailed breakdown of the fees paid to Non-executive
Directors during the year is provided below:
Safety and
Non-Executive Directors Directorship Chairmanship Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability Total fees
Sir John Craven 16,538 C 49,616 M 2,481 68,635
Karen de Segundo 50,000 M 10,000 M 4,269 M 7,500 71,769
Peter Godsoe 50,000 M 10,000 M 7,500 67,500
Sivi Gounden 50,000 M 4,269 C 12,500 66,769
Michael Hartnall 50,000 S 3,750 M 10,000 C 17,500 M 7,500 88,750
Jonathan Leslie 16,154 M 2,462 M 2,423 M 1,846 22,885
David Munro 50,000 M 4,346 M 4,269 M 7,500 66,115
Roger Phillimore 50,000 C 149,808 C 7,607 M 3,308 C 12,500 226,972
D 3,096 M 653
Jim Sutcliffe 50,000 C 9,962 M 10,000 M 4,269 75,269
M 1,038
Key: C = Chairman, D = Deputy Chairman, S = Senior Independent Director, M = Member
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 78
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Make up of executive Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration attributable to each of the two executive Directors serving at the year end in respect of the year was comprised
of the following broad elements:
Ian Farmer Alan Ferguson
Notes to the charts
1. Benefits in kind are stated at their taxable value or the cost incurred by the Company where not taxable.
2 The cash bonus amount is the pre-tax amount payable in respect of the year and is stated before deferral.
3 The LTIP is stated at fair value in a manner consistent with IFRS. However, if the threshold conditions noted elsewhere in this report are not obtained, no
payment will be made.
4 Pension is cash amounts paid to the executive.
Fixed pay for executive Directors and senior executives
Base salary
Whilst the Remuneration Committee tends to have regard to total compensation, including performance-related elements,
individuals inevitably focus on headline base salary, especially at the point of recruitment, as this forms the major part of the
guaranteed reward. For this reason, the Company needs to offer salaries at around median market levels so that it is able to
attract and retain suitable directors and executives but without paying more than is necessary.
Salaries are reviewed once annually, as at 1 October, taking into account annual performance review data. Following his
appointment as CEO, Ian Farmer’s salary was increased by 57% with effect from 28 September 2008. Alan Ferguson’s salary
was increased by 6% at 1 October 2008. The salaries of senior executives and individuals in the United Kingdom increased by
5%. The salaries of our general workforce in South Africa increased by 12.5% (compared to inflation of 13.8%).
Senior executives and managers based in South Africa are offered a wage equating to the market norm of ‘total cost to
company’ (TCTC), with all benefits in kind converted into a cash allowance within this structure. Participation in short and long-
term incentive schemes is in addition to TCTC.
Not including the executive Directors, at the end of 2009 the remuneration of 14 other senior executives, the majority of
whom are employed in South Africa, fall within the purview of the Remuneration Committee (compared to 26 executives at the
end of 2008). This reduction in numbers is as a result of the restructuring programme undertaken during 2009. The base salaries
of those individuals based in the United Kingdom and the TCTC remuneration of individuals employed in South Africa fall within
the following bands:
Salary band £000 Number of executives
£100 to £150 3
£150 to £200 3
£200 to £250 6
£250 to £300 1
£300 to £350 1
These executives also participate in the same long-term and short-term incentive arrangements as the executive Directors
although with lower grant levels.
Benefits in kind
Benefits in kind for the executive Directors variously comprise the provision of a fully-expensed car, or cash car allowance, the
provision of annual health checks and private medical insurance for the individual and his dependants. Executive Directors and
senior executives are provided with life assurance and access to a limited amount of independent financial planning and tax advice.
Finally, the Company purchases income continuance insurance in respect of all employees in the London office, including the UK-
based executive Directors.
1%
24%
9%
32%
34%
Benefits-in-kind £29,372
Pension £198,900
Long-term incentive plan £737,480
Annual bonus £759,981
Base salary £551,538
1%
28%
8%
23%
40%
Benefits-in-kind £17,356
Pension £146,280
Long-term incentive plan £399,298
Annual bonus £673,757
Base salary £487,600 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 79
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Pensions
Pensions in context of total compensation
The Committee wishes to provide executives with access to market-competitive pension provision, without exposing the
Company to the potentially open-ended obligations associated with defined benefit pension provision. The UK final salary pension
plan, the Lonmin Superannuation Scheme (the Scheme) was closed to new entrants in April 2006 and for the future accrual
of benefits in July 2007. The Scheme commenced an orderly winding-up process in 2008, which is effectively complete. It is
expected that the trust which constituted the Scheme will be dissolved before the end of calendar year 2009. Following the
closure of the Scheme, UK-based executives have been provided with a pension supplement, expressed as a percentage of
their base salary, which may be paid at the executive’s choice as a pension contribution or an additional taxable cash payment.
Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson have elected for their entitlements of 30% of base salary to be paid in cash.
All employees with a final salary link in force at the date of closure of the Scheme have been provided with a salary
supplement for five years from that date, in partial compensation for the loss of the link to future salary growth for their accrued
benefits. Ian Farmer benefits from this provision and currently receives a non-pensionable and non-bonusable salary supplement
of £33,900 per annum. The contractual lump sum death in service cover has been increased from four times salary to eight times
salary for this group, to reflect the loss of value associated with the removal of the previous spouse’s pension, and income
continuance insurance was extended to all employees in recognition of the withdrawal of the facility to claim an ill-health early
retirement pension.
Defined contribution arrangements
The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme, the Lonmin Retirement Plan, for the benefit of all its UK
employees. This is a registered arrangement structured as a group personal pension scheme. The two executive Directors are not
members of this scheme. In South Africa the employing companies in the Group participate in an industry-wide defined
contribution pension plan.
Pensions generally
No element of any Director’s remuneration other than base salary is pensionable. Except as disclosed above, the Company has
given no undertakings to arrange or bear the cost of any other pension benefits for any Director. No former Director enjoys
pension benefits in excess of those provided, in accordance with the provisions of the trust deeds and rules, to all members of
the relevant scheme.
Life assurance
From 1 July 2007, as a former member of the UK defined benefit pension scheme, Ian Farmer has been provided with life
assurance benefits of eight times salary, as noted above, as a contractual benefit. Alan Ferguson is entitled to life assurance
benefits of four times annual salary under his contract of employment. The Company has secured all of these benefits through life
assurance policies written as excepted life arrangements.
Performance-related pay for executive Directors and senior executives
Short-term incentive arrangements
The Committee believes that participation in a short-term incentive scheme enhances the focus of the executive Directors and
key senior executives by providing a meaningful incentive to outperform and ensures that the management team is appropriately
focused on business-critical outcomes. The Company provides the opportunity to earn an annual cash bonus through a balanced
scorecard approach, assessing performance under three broad headings, being as follows (the weighting generally attaching to
each component is quoted as a percentage of overall bonus opportunity):
% of bonus opportunity on Actual payment for the
offer for target performance year (% of bonus opportunity)
SHEC (20%)
• Safety: improvement in lost time injury frequency rate 10.0% 0.00%
• Community: improvement on Social & Labour Plan targets 10.0% 10.00%
Production and Growth (60%)
• Platinum sales: 6 mth Pt oz target 10.0% 20.00%
• Platinum sales: 12 mth Pt oz target 12.5% 0.00%
• Capital development index 5.0% 8.24%
• Gross operating costs 10.0% 17.00%
• Operating unit costs
1
12.5% 0.00%
• Metal in Progress inventory management 10.0% 10.00%
Personal objectives (20%) 20.0% 17.50%
2
Total 82.74%
1 Due to focus on cost savings in the year, the executive Directors had a one-off potential opportunity to double % in respect of Operating unit costs metric.
2 Average for Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 80
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Performance-related pay for executive Directors and senior executives (continued)
Short-term incentive arrangements (continued)
As explained earlier in this report, the Company’s remuneration policy is designed to provide a robust link between reward
and performance. This is clearly demonstrated by the corporate balanced scorecard result of 65.24%. The bonus elements and
relative weightings detailed above were selected as these best captured the steps needing to be taken to improve the delivery of
value to shareholders and all were capable of objective measurement and independent verification.
The Directors and senior executives also had the opportunity to earn bonus from achievement of personal objectives (comprising
20% of the total bonus opportunity). The average total bonus pay-out for Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson was 82.74% of target.
For each individual element, three levels of attainment are set. For 2009 these were:
Threshold: the minimum level of attainment for which the Committee felt payment could be warranted, with generally 50% of
the ‘target’ amount for that element being payable.
Target: normally based on the Company’s budget, at which 100% of the bonus for that element becomes payable.
Stretch: representing a significant level of outperformance and also acting as a cap on the bonus due for that element, with
200% of the ‘target’ amount for that element being payable.
This was a one-off widening of the range applied to each element in previous years, which was 75% (threshold), 100%
(target) and 150% (stretch) and was approved by the Committee in the light of the significant operational challenges facing the
company in a difficult trading environment. Although stretch for each element was 200%, the “total” overall bonus payable was
capped at 150% of target.
The scheme design provides for payment for the year ending 30 September 2009 of 167% of base salary to executive
Directors for overall performance at the target level with the maximum stretch bonus therefore being capped at 250% of base
salary. All results have been independently reviewed (including, where appropriate, scrutiny by the external auditors) and the
Committee has subjected the scorecard to a detailed assessment before authorising payment. At the beginning of the financial
year, it was agreed that of the resulting net bonus 50% would be settled in cash and 50% would be deferred in to shares. Both
executive Directors have however voluntarily decided to defer a further 25% of their net bonus. Therefore, of the actual resulting
net bonus 25% is being settled in cash and 75% is being deferred in to shares for three years.
Of necessity, the design of bonus plans will evolve from year to year, in line with the Company’s strategic needs. The
Committee monitors the competitive environment and will devise amended or new plans in future years to ensure that the
Company can continue to recruit, retain and motivate the most able senior executives, and that they are given the clearest
possible incentive to deliver exceptional value to shareholders. After consideration, the Committee have decided that the same
approach should operate for 2010 except that the range between threshold and stretch for each element will revert to 75%
to 150%.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP)
In 2008 and earlier years, executive Directors were offered the opportunity to participate in the DABP , pursuant to which a
minimum of one-third of the net cash bonus due to each executive was invested in the DABP , with the ability to elect to invest
any greater amount up to the whole of their net bonus. The funds invested were used to buy Lonmin shares in the open market
via the Company’s employee benefit trust. At the date the shares are purchased, the trustees make a ‘Matched Award’ to the
executive which, subject to the attainment of performance conditions, could enable matching of the number of shares bought by
the executive of up to one for one (for 2007, two for one), on an after tax basis.
The two performance conditions are RTSR and Earnings before Interest and Tax (EBIT) for awards up to 2007 and are RTSR
and absolute share price for 2008. These measures were chosen because the Committee felt they best reflected both the key
imperatives on management at the relevant time and also provided an equal focus on the delivery of value to shareholders over
the longer term. Further discussion of how the Committee implements the EBIT performance condition is given on page 84. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 81
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Performance-related pay for executive Directors and senior executives (continued)
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) (continued)
The performance conditions are summarised below:
% of
Basis of component of
Year of award performance conditions Performance conditions Performance award released
2005 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 50%
15 comparator companies Target (60th percentile) 75%
Stretch (75% percentile 100%
50% EBIT EBIT: growth targets (%) Threshold 50%
FY2005-2008 Target 75%
Stretch 100%
2006 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 50%
20 comparator companies Target (62.5th percentile) 75%
Stretch (75th percentile) 100%
50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2009 Threshold 50%
Target 75%
Stretch 100%
2007 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 20%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 70%
Stretch (90th percentile 100%
50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2010 Threshold 20%
Target 60%
Stretch 100%
2008 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 20%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 70%
Stretch (90th percentile) 100%
50% Share Price Lonmin Plc share price on Threshold 20%
London Stock Exchange Stretch 100%
Following the 2007 Annual General Meeting, to improve the retention characteristics of the Plan, a mandatory bonus deferral
of bonuses was introduced, commencing with those paid in November 2007. Where there is a mandatory bonus deferral, such
an amount is forfeitable should the executive leave during the three year performance period, other than for ‘good leaver’
reasons. In return, the Matched Award is made on the basis of two shares for each Invested Share acquired. Half of the shares
subject to the Matched Award will normally vest at the end of the performance period, subject to the employee remaining with
the Group and to the extent that the related Invested Shares are retained. One quarter of the shares subject to a Matched Award
will vest subject also to satisfaction of a Relative TSR performance condition and a further quarter subject to an EBIT target. The
employee will also be able to apply the remainder of their bonus to acquire Invested Shares (without risk of forfeiture) that will be
matched on a 1:1 basis, subject to satisfaction of the same RTSR and EBIT performance conditions. For bonuses in 2008, the
Remuneration Committee determined that the DABP would be operated based solely on a voluntary deferral on the terms set out
above, save that the Committee determined that an absolute share price target would be substituted for the EBIT target. As
reported above, the matching element of the Plan is not being used for bonuses in respect of the year ending 2009.
The Committee does not disclose the EBIT or share price targets, where applicable, for reasons of commercial sensitivity and
because of regulatory constraints but will do so retrospectively at the conclusion of the relevant performance period. It believes
the profit growth targets and the new share price target to be stretching, yet realistic.
On 2 December 2008, awards were made under this Plan to the executive Directors and to a number of senior executives.
The mid-market closing share price on that date was 647p. Details of the awards are included in the table of Directors’ interests.
On 17 December 2008, 50% of the Matched Awards granted on 15 December 2005 vested (being the half of the award subject
to the EBIT test). The outcome of the EBIT half was linked to the underlying audited EBIT for the year ended 30 September 2008
of $963m. Based on this EBIT, growth in EBIT relative to 2005 was above the 60% level required at stretch resulting in 100%
vesting for this part of the award. For the RTSR half of the award, Lonmin finished below threshold and therefore 0% of that half
of the award vested.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 82
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Performance-related pay for executive Directors and senior executives (continued)
Co-Investment Plan (CIP)
The CIP was adopted by shareholders at the 2007 AGM. In summary, this plan permits the Committee to invite selected
executives to invest in Lonmin shares in return for the grant of a Matched Award over twice the number of Invested Shares. There
has only ever been one participant, Brad Mills, who made an investment of £2.5m in May 2007. The Matched Award vested in
part in October 2008 within the overall settlement made on termination of his employment, as detailed in the table of directors
share interests on page 87.
It is not currently felt appropriate to operate the CIP in respect of any other executives, but the plan may be re-activated
should the Committee judge this to be appropriate.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP is designed to ensure that the Company can offer long-term incentives to executive Directors and senior executives.
The Committee believes that it is vital to be able to offer such incentives to ensure that those best placed to deliver value for
shareholders have a direct personal interest in so doing. The annual granting of LTIP awards is intended to provide participants
with the opportunity to earn sufficient reward, by delivering value to shareholders, such that they are motivated to stay in the
Group’s employment. An award under this Plan entitles the recipient to receive shares at no cost, subject to attainment of
stretching performance conditions which are detailed further below.
The two performance conditions are RTSR and Earnings before Interest and Tax (EBIT) for awards up to 2008 and are RTSR
and absolute share price for 2009. The Committee believes that the two components of the performance condition provide an
appropriate incentive to focus on the short and longer term drivers of shareholder value. As with the DABP the Committee feels
unable to publish the EBIT or share price targets, however, it is satisfied that they should prove stretching, yet realistic, and there
will be full retrospective disclosure. Further discussion of how the Committee implements the EBIT performance condition is given
on page 84.
The performance conditions are summarised below:
% of
Basis of component of
Year of award performance conditions Performance conditions Performance award released
2006 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 35%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 60%
Stretch (90th percentile) 100%
50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2008 Threshold 35%
Target 63%
Stretch 100%
2007 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 20%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 70%
Stretch (90th percentile) 100%
50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2009 Threshold 20%
Target 60%
Stretch 100%
2008 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 20%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 70%
Stretch (90th percentile) 100%
50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2010 Threshold 0%
Stretch 100%
2009 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 20%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 70%
Stretch (90th percentile) 100%
50% Share Price Lonmin Plc share price on Threshold 20%
London Stock Exchange Stretch 100%
For 2009, awards were made to the executive Directors and a number of senior executives on 14 September 2009 when the
closing mid-market share price was 1732p. The Committee determined that the face value of the Awards made to each of the
executive Directors should be maintained, to provide the maximum possible incentive to deliver the Company’s performance
improvement. However, the final 25% of base salary (the Incentive Award) should only be payable if the price of Lonmin shares
exceed the stretch level applicable to the Base Award.
The award made to Ian Farmer was equivalent to 150% of base salary (125% Base Award and 25% Incentive Award) and
Alan Ferguson received an award equivalent to 100% of base salary (75% Base Award and 25% Incentive Award). The Base
Award is subject to the performance conditions as described in the table above. The Incentive Award is subject only to absolute
share price targets which are more stretching than those applied to the Base Award. Details of the awards are included in the
table of Directors’ interests.
Whilst the awards to executive Directors are 100% subject to performance conditions, the awards made in 2009 below board
only were 50% subject to performance conditions and 50% subject to continued employment on the third anniversary of the date
of grant in line with common market practice in South Africa. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 83
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Performance-related pay for executive Directors and senior executives (continued)
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) (continued)
An additional award of 15,000 shares was also made to Ian Farmer on 7 January 2009. The same performance targets apply
to this award as for the 2008 DABS.
An award was also made to one senior executive on 28 September 2009. The closing mid-market share price on this date
was 1703p.
On 18 November 2008, awards made under the LTIP on 30 September 2005 vested. Lonmin finished 8th in the comparator
group of 16 companies and therefore 38% of the award vested.
On 18 August 2009, awards made under the LTIP on 17 August 2006 vested. For the RTSR half of the award, Lonmin finished
below threshold and therefore 0% of that half of the award vested. For the EBIT half of the award, 61% vested. The outcome of
the EBIT half of the award was linked to the underlying audited EBIT for the year ended 30 September 2008 of $963m and share
of joint venture profits of $18m. The vesting scale required a threshold of $775m (at which 35% would vest), target of $1,000m (at
which 63% would vest) and stretch of $1,250m (at which 100% would vest) with straight-line interpolation between these points.
Brokers’ EBIT forecasts at the time the performance targets were set ranged from $695m to $1,490m with an average
consensus of $980m.
Stay & Prosper Plan
The Committee regularly reviews the incentive arrangements offered to managers, particularly in South Africa where there has
historically been severe competition for talent in the mining sector, to ensure the Group is able to provide an appropriate level of
reward and incentive whilst remaining consistent with current UK best practice. The Stay & Prosper Plan was implemented in
2005 to provide a significant retention tool whilst also providing sufficient incentive opportunity to align the interests of managers
with those of shareholders. The Plan consists of two components: a performance award which is subject to satisfaction of
specific performance conditions and a retention award which is subject to continued employment on the third anniversary of the
date of grant. Vesting of the performance award in good leaver situations is subject to the discretion of the Committee whilst the
retention award will normally lapse but the Committee may exercise its discretion. Awards are linked to a notional number of
shares which are awarded at nil cost and participants receive shares or cash (based on the prevailing market value of that
proportion of the total award that vests) at the end of three years.
Initially, the plan was operated on a cash-settled basis only, but since the January 2009 AGM, awards may at the discretion of
the Committee be settled in newly-issued shares. All awards vesting in 2009 were share-settled and this remains the Committee’s
policy.
The executive Directors are not permitted to participate in this Plan.
The performance conditions for the performance award are summarised below:
Year of award Retention / performance Performance condition Performance % of performance award released
2006 50% / 50% EBIT: audited profit for FY2008 Threshold 20%
Target 54%
Stretch 100%
2007 50% / 50% EBIT: audited profit for FY2009 Threshold 20%
Target 60%
Stretch 100%
2008 – February 50% / 50% EBIT: audited profit for FY2009 Threshold 20%
Target 60%
Stretch 100%
2008 – March 50% / 50% Matrix based on saleable platinum 0% – 100%
ounces and direct unit cost per
platinum ounces for FY2010
2008 – July 50% / 50% EBIT: audited profit for FY2010 Threshold 0%
Stretch 100%
2008 – November 50% / 50% EBIT: audited profit for FY2010 Threshold 0%
Stretch 100%
2009 – September 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 20%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 70%
Stretch (90th percentile) 100%
50% Share Price Lonmin Plc share price on Threshold 20%
London Stock Exchange Stretch 100%
The main award was made on 14 September 2009 to senior managers based in South Africa on terms substantially
unchanged from those of the prior year. An award was also made on 26 November 2008 to 7 managers who had mistakenly
been omitted from the July 2008 award.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 84
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Performance-related pay for executive Directors and senior executives (continued)
Stay & Prosper Plan (continued)
On 16 August 2009, awards made under the Stay & Prosper Plan on 16 August 2006 vested. 51% of the performance award
(with an EBIT performance condition) vested which together with the retention award gave an overall vesting of 76% of the total
award. The outcome of the performance award was linked to the underlying audited EBIT for the year ended 30 September 2008
of $963m and share of joint venture profits of $18m. The vesting scale required a threshold of $775m (at which 20% would vest),
target of $1,000m (at which 54% would vest) and stretch of $1,250m (at which 100% would vest) with straight-line interpolation
between these points. Brokers’ EBIT forecasts at the time the performance targets were set ranged from $695m to $1,490m with
an average consensus of $980m.
Scarce Skills Retention Plan
This plan was used for a one-off award made in 2006 to 74 key individuals below board level who were identified as having rare
and valuable skills necessary to the Company’s future vision and who were felt to be at significant risk of poaching by our global
competitors. The vast majority of participants were based in South Africa.
Awards comprised a notional share-based award which was settled in cash provided the individual was still employed by the
Company three years after the award. There was no performance condition and no good leaver provisions. The awards made in
2006 vested on 14 July 2009 and cash totalling R5.139m (net) was paid to the remaining 31 participants.
The executive Directors did not participate in this Plan and, other than in 2006, there have not been and the Committee does
not envisage that there will be, any further awards made under this Plan.
Performance condition philosophy
The Committee considers the appropriateness of proposed performance conditions prior to approving the grant of each award.
With the exception of awards made under the Stay & Prosper and the Scarce Skills Retention Plans, each of the Plans
mentioned above uses relative total shareholder return as part or the whole of the performance condition. The Committee
believes that this measure links the actual returns delivered to shareholders with the remuneration earned by the executives
through the successful delivery of our strategy. In addition, the Committee believes that this test provides a measurable and
objective reflection of true performance for shareholders in light of the variability introduced into reported results by metal prices
and exchange rates (particularly between the South African Rand and the US Dollar).
Prior to 2009, in order to provide an effective and robust link between the business’ needs and the remuneration of the
Company’s executives and managers, the EBIT test was introduced for awards made under the CIP , DABP , LTIP and the
Stay & Prosper Plan. The Committee believes that growth in EBIT is a key operational metric by which the business is measured.
The EBIT targets used are based on audited numbers shown in the published accounts of the Company and so provide total
transparency and a link between performance and pay.
Where the Group acquires new businesses, the EBIT impact would normally be excluded from the assessment of
performance conditions by the Committee, unless the targets had previously been adjusted specifically to include acquired profits
or losses. The Committee would also have regard to the cost of capital associated with such acquisitions, to ensure that
shareholder value was properly taken into account in this context.
During 2009 the significant dislocations in the financial and PGM markets made forecasting EBIT three years forward
exceptionally challenging. The Committee perceived that there was a significant risk that any forecasts could prove to be
materially incorrect and either result in excessive reward or gross unfairness to the plan participants (and by extension,
shareholders). After considering a range of possible performance conditions, the Committee decided to introduce an absolute
share price target. The Committee is aware from the meetings with key institutional shareholders that some do not like the use of
absolute share price targets. These views have been taken into consideration but the Committee still views an absolute share
price target as both the fairest metric, and the one most appropriate to the Company’s needs. For reasons of commercial
sensitivity, the threshold and stretch targets are not being published, but there will be full retrospective disclosure. The Committee
is confident that the targets are stretching yet realistic, and that shareholders will have achieved an attractive return of their
investment should the share price reach the threshold level at which any executive reward would become payable.
Performance conditions are assessed using independently verified data. Relative TSR is assessed by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , acting on behalf of the Committee, using data normalised into US Dollars sourced from
Datastream or other independent providers. EBIT assessment utilises the audited financial results of the Company.
Grant price methodology
The price used to determine the number of shares awarded under the DABP , LTIP and Stay & Prosper Plan is calculated using
the average Lonmin share price on the FTSE 100 for the final twenty working days of the last complete calendar month before
the date of award. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 85
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
The comparator group of companies
The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the comparator group used for the Company’s long-term incentive arrangements
to ensure that it remains relevant to the Company’s stated strategy and therefore aligns executives appropriately with
shareholders. Since 2006, the Committee has used a group of twenty metals and mining companies to provide a more
statistically sound and broadly based comparator group. These companies are as follows:
African Rainbow Minerals Gold Fields Limited
Anglo American plc Impala Platinum Holdings Limited
Anglo Gold Ashanti Limited Johnson Matthey plc
Anglo Platinum Ltd MMC Norilsk Nickel
Antofagasta plc Rio Tinto plc
Aquarius Platinum Stillwater Mining
BHP Billiton plc Teck Cominco
Exxaro Resources Umicore
First Quantum Minerals Vale
Gold Corp Xstrata plc
Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS)
These legacy schemes expired in March 2007 and, although an ESOS is contained within the rules of the Shareholder Value
Incentive Plan, the Committee has not made, and does not intend to make, any grants under that scheme.
Awards made since 1994 have been subject to performance conditions. Details of these conditions for the Company’s
various tranches of executive share options that remain outstanding are as follows:
• Options granted in or after 1998 but before 2002: total return to shareholders must be greater than the total return on the
Mining Sector of the FTSE Actuaries Share Indices over any consecutive thirty six month period.
• Options granted in or after 2002: total return to shareholders must be greater than that on the Mining Sector of the FTSE
Actuaries Share Indices in one of the periods of three, four, five or six years following the date of grant, in each case relative
to a fixed base year.
The performance conditions attaching to all outstanding options have been attained and these options duly became exercisable.
Sharesave
The Company historically offered an HMRC approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme to all UK-remunerated employees,
including the executive Directors. Under this Scheme, the participant enters into a savings contract and in return is granted an
option over the Company’s shares to be funded by the balance on their savings account at the end of the contractual savings
period. The option price may, at the Committee’s discretion, be at a discount of up to 20% to the prevailing mid-market price at
the date of invitation. With the exception of the 2005 awards, the Company has historically granted all such options with a 20%
discount, including those held by Ian Farmer. The Sharesave Scheme expired in March 2007 although options granted prior to
that date continue to subsist.
Share schemes generally
Except under the Sharesave Scheme, no options have been granted that have an exercise price at a discount to the market price
at the time the exercise price was set. No options or awards of any kind have been granted to Non-executive Directors. Directors
are strongly encouraged to hold the shares issued to them upon the exercise of options and awards.
Dilution
Options granted under ESOS and Sharesave (with the exception of the December 2005 award) are satisfied with new-issued
shares. Awards under the CIP , LTIP or DABP are satisfied either with shares purchased in the market by the Company’s offshore
employee benefit trust or the issue of new shares. Awards under the Scarce Skills Retention Plan were cash-settled. Awards
under the Stay & Prosper Plan can be settled in shares or cash at the Committee’s discretion.
The table below shows the Company’s current commitment to issue new shares in respect of its long-term incentive schemes
assuming (1) all performance conditions are met, (2) all award holders remain in employment to the vesting date and (3) the
Committee continues to settle Stay & Prosper awards in shares in line with its current policy:
% of % of
issued share issued share
30.09.08 capital 30.09.09 capital
Undiluted issued share capital (refer to note 26 to the accounts) 156,383,233 193,054,260
The Lonmin Executive Share Option Scheme 249,736 0.16 200,044 0.10
The Lonmin Share Option Scheme 12,834 0.01 10,721 0.01
The Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1994 19,696 0.01 17,914 0.01
Co-Investment Plan Matched Award 126,360 0.08 ––
Co-Investment Plan Invested Shares 95,505 0.06 ––
Long Term Incentive Plan 499,972 0.32 644,085 0.33
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 73,193 0.05 87,928 0.05
Stay & Prosper Plan (cash settled in 2008) –– 1,566,499 0.81
Sub-total: contingent obligation to allot shares 1,077,296 0.69 2,527,191 1.31
Total diluted issued share capital 157,460,529 n/a 195,581,451 n/a
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 86
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Directors’ shareholding obligation
Ultimately, the Committee believes that the most powerful way to ensure that the actions of the Directors are best aligned with
shareholders’ interests is for the Directors to build up and retain personally significant holdings of the Company’s shares. As a
matter of policy, the Board expects all Directors to maintain a shareholding (including vested but unexercised share incentives)
equal in value to 100% of their base salary (or, in the case of Non-executive Directors, base fees) and 150% in the case of the
Chief Executive. In this way, shareholder value becomes a paramount principle underlying all Board decisions, since real personal
wealth will be at stake. Failure to achieve these targets may result in exclusion from participation in some or all of the incentive
schemes that the Company operates.
At the end of the year, by reference to the share price at that date (1674p) directors’ share ownership levels were as follows:
Shareholding at
30 September 2009
Guideline Shareholding policy as a % of base salary / fees
Ian Farmer 150% of base salary 180
Alan Ferguson 100% of base salary 58
Karen de Segundo 100% of base fees 71
Peter Godsoe 100% of base fees 137
Sivi Gounden 100% of base fees 281
Michael Hartnall 100% of base fees 126
Jonathan Leslie 100% of base fees –
David Munro 100% of base fees 258
Roger Phillimore 100% of base fees 152
Jim Sutcliffe 100% of base fees 152
Directors’ shareholdings
The beneficial interests of the Directors in office during the year are shown below:
30.09.09
1
30.09.08
Executive Directors
Ian Farmer 58,985 35,821
Alan Ferguson 17,007 5,790
Non-Executive Directors
Sir John Craven 30,000 30,000
Karen de Segundo 2,108 1,725
Peter Godsoe 4,106 3,360
Sivi Gounden 8,384 6,860
Michael Hartnall 4,888 4,000
Jonathan Leslie 0 –
David Munro 7,700 6,300
Roger Phillimore 22,750 3,614
Jim Sutcliffe 4,536 3,712
Former Director
Brad Mills 260,596 260,596
Notes
1. 30.09.09 or earlier date of retirement from the board.
2. There were no changes in the serving directors’ interests from 30 September 2009 to the date of this report. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 87
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Directors’ options and awards
The options and awards held by Directors over ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the table below:
During year
Exercise
Price
(p) Date from Market Market
(adjusted which price at Notional value
Perfor- for Rights exercisable / Date of date of pre-tax as at
mance Date of rights As at Issue Exercised / As at vesting Expiry exercise / exercise gain 30.09.09
2
Scheme Condition grant issue) 30.09.08 adjustment Granted Vested Lapsed 30.09.09 date date vesting (p) (£)
1
(£)
Executive Directors
Ian Farmer
SAYE (a) 05.01.05 673.00 2,343 112 – – – 2,455 01.02.10 01.08.10 – – – 24,575
DABP MA (b) 15.12.05 – 2,273 – – 1,136 1,137 – 15.12.08 15.12.08 17.12.08 715.00 8,122 –
DABP MA (c) 22.12.06 – 2,152 103 – – – 2,255 22.12.09 22.12.09 – – – 37,749
DABP MA (d) 05.12.07 – 2,076 98 – – – 2,174 05.12.10 05.12.10 – – – 36,393
DABP MA (e) 02.12.08 – – 425 8,871 – – 9,296 02.12.11 02.12.11 – – – 155,615
LTIP
3
(f) 30.09.05 – 23,000 – – 8,740 14,260 – 30.09.08 18.11.08 18.11.08 836.32 73,094 –
LTIP (c) 17.08.06 – 12,200 584 – 3,899 8,885 – 17.08.09 17.08.09 18.08.09 1,374.42 53,589 –
LTIP (c) 22.08.07 – 9,106 436 – – – 9,542 22.08.10 22.08.10 – – – 159,733
LTIP (c) 29.07.08 – 10,879 521 – – – 11,400 05.12.10 05.12.10 – – – 190,836
LTIP (e) 07.01.09 – – 718 15,000 – – 15,718 07.01.12 07.01.12 – – – 263,119
LTIP (g) 14.09.09 – – – 57,152 – – 57,152 14.09.12 14.09.12 – – – 956,724
Alan Ferguson
DABP MA (d) 05.12.07 – 1,783 84 – – – 1,867 05.12.10 05.12.10 – – – 31,254
DABP MA (e) 02.12.08 – – 727 15,186 – – 15,913 02.12.11 02.12.11 ––– 266,384
LTIP (c) 22.08.07 – 10,857 520 – – – 11,377 22.08.10 22.08.10 – – – 190,451
LTIP (c) 29.07.08 – 14,299 685 – – – 14,984 29.07.11 29.07.11 – – – 250,832
LTIP (g) 14.09.09 – – – 33,779 – – 33,779 14.09.12 14.09.12 – – – 565,460
Former Executive Director
Brad Mills
4
CIP MA (h) 21.05.07 – 126,360 – – 62,946 63,414 – 21.05.10 21.05.10 18.11.08 842.513 530,328.23 –
DABP MA (b) 15.12.05 – 17,897 – – 8,915 8,982 – 15.12.08 15.12.08 18.11.08 842.513 75,110.03 –
DABP MA (c) 22.12.06 – 16,690 – – 8,314 8,376 – 22.12.09 22.12.09 18.11.08 842.513 70,046.53 –
DABP MA (d) 05.12.07 – 5,153 – – 2,570 2,583 – 05.12.10 05.12.10 18.11.08 842.513 21,652.58 –
LTIP (f) 30.09.05 – 67,500 – – 33,625 33,875 – 30.09.08 18.11.08 18.11.08 842.513 283,295.00 –
LTIP (c) 17.08.06 – 44,100 – – 21,968 22,132 – 17.08.09 17.08.09 18.11.08 842.513 185,083.26 –
LTIP (c) 22.08.07 – 24,429 – – 12,169 12,260 – 22.08.10 22.08.10 18.11.08 842.513 102,525.41 –
LTIP (c) 29.07.08 – 29,095 – – 14,493 14,602 – 29.07.11 29.07.11 18.11.08 842.513 122,105.41 –
1 The notional pre-tax gain is the taxable value based on the number of shares under award that vested and the market price on the date of vesting,
regardless of whether the shares were actually sold on that date or not. The total notional pre-tax gains made by current directors in respect of awards
which vested during the year was £134,805.
2 The value is calculated using the closing middle market quotation for Lonmin shares at 30 September 2009 (1674p) and is stated (where relevant) net of
exercise costs.
3 Due to Model Code restrictions, the vesting of this award was deferred until the Company was not in a close period.
4 Mr Mills resigned as a director of the Company on 9 October 2008. There were no changes in the serving directors’ interests from 30 September 2009
to the date of this report.
5 The closing middle market quotation for the Company’s ordinary shares, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, was 1674p on
30 September 2009, and the price ranged between 527p and 1831p during the financial year.
The schemes under which these awards / options were granted are:
SAYE – Options granted under the Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme
DABP MA – Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Matched Awards made under the Shareholder Value Incentive Plan
LTIP – Long Term Incentive Plan Awards made under the Shareholder Value Incentive Plan
CIP MA – Co-Investment Plan Matched Award made under the Shareholder Value Incentive Plan
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 88
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Directors’ options and awards (continued)
The performance conditions are fully explained in earlier narrative, but are briefly:
(a) No performance condition is attached to SAYE options.
(b) 50% of awards linked to TSR exceeding TSR of comparator companies over 3 years with vesting schedule as described and
remaining 50% of award linked to growth in EBIT.
(c) 50% of award linked to TSR exceeding TSR of comparator companies with vesting schedule as described and remaining
50% of award linked to EBIT performance.
(d) One for one performance award of which 50% is linked to TSR exceeding TSR of comparator companies with vesting
schedule as described and remaining 50% of award linked to EBIT performance. There is
also a one for one retention award on the first 1/3rd of the deferred bonus as described earlier.
(e) 50% of awards linked to TSR exceeding TSR of comparator companies over 3 years with vesting schedule as described and
remaining 50% of award linked to absolute share price.
(f) TSR exceeds TSR of comparator companies over three years with vesting schedule as described.
(g) TSR exceeds TSR of comparator companies over three years with vesting schedule as described and absolute share price.
(h) 75% of 5/6 of award linked to TSR exceeding TSR of comparator companies over 3 years and remaining 25% of 5/6 of
award linked to EBIT. The performance conditions are the same as for the 2007 LTIP .
Value at risk
Based on the shares and share options and awards held at 30 September 2009 (assuming full vesting and having accounted for
any relevant exercise costs), the following table illustrates the value each executive Director has at risk and how this component
of personal wealth has fluctuated during the year, using the lowest, highest and closing share prices for the year of 527p, 1831p
and 1674p respectively, for illustrative purposes:
Executive Director Number of Shares Low (£) High (£) Closing (£)
Ian Farmer 58,985 310,851 1,080,015 987,409
Alan Ferguson 17,007 89,627 311,398 284,697
Executive Director Number of options / awards Low (£) High (£) Closing (£)
Ian Farmer
1
109,992 566,720 1,997,431 1,824,744
Alan Ferguson 77,920 410,638 1,426,715 1,304,381
1 Ian Farmer’s interests comprise 2,455 shares under option at an exercise price of 673p.
Non-Group directorships
No executive Director holds any executive directorship or appointment outside the Group. It is both the Company’s policy and
generally a requirement of the individual’s contract of employment that no executive Director may take up such an appointment
without the approval of the Board. The Board believes that, in the right circumstances, the holding of non-executive directorships
and similar appointments by executive Directors can be useful and appropriate if they help those involved gain additional skills
and experience or promote the interests of the Group and do not necessitate an excessive time commitment. The Board would
not normally agree to an executive Director taking on more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or the
chairmanship of such a company. Whilst it would be considered on a case-by-case basis, any individual holding such a role
outside the Group would generally be permitted to retain any fees or other payments relating to that appointment.
Service contracts
The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Combined Code relating to service contracts. The Remuneration
Committee is responsible for settling any payment to be made when an executive Director’s employment ends and has full regard
to the provisions of the Combined Code and other components of best practice in this area.
One-off arrangement
On 22 October 2009 the Company announced that it intended to move its operational headquarters from London to
Johannesburg. Alan Ferguson has confirmed that he will not relocate to South Africa as part of this move and will therefore
relinquish his position and resign from the Board at a future date. He has committed to remain in his present role until at least
31 December 2010 and the Committee believed it was appropriate and in the Company’s best interests to offer him a one-off
non-pensionable cash retention payment of up to 125% of his current base salary subject to satisfactory individual performance
through the period of transition from London to Johannesburg. Half of the retention payment will be paid at the date of
termination with the remaining half payable as soon as practicable after the first full year or interim announcement of results
following the termination date. He will not be eligible to receive an LTIP award in 2010. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 89
Severance arrangements
As disclosed last year, Brad Mills’ employment with the Company terminated on 7 October 2008 and he ceased to be a Director
on 9 October 2008. Under the termination provisions of his contract of employment, Mr Mills received a payment of £1,365,491
(less legally required deductions) on the termination of his employment and a further payment of £386,880 (less legally required
deductions) in respect of bonus for the financial year ended 30 September 2008. These payments were made in lieu of those
which would have been received by Mr Mills during his contractual notice period and, as such, the Company was bound to make
these payments without reduction.
Mr Mills also participated in a number of share-settled incentive and retention schemes. Following extensive discussions, and
taking into account the performance of the Company and the length of time that awards had been held, the Remuneration
Committee resolved that Mr Mills would receive 165,000 shares in the Company and a cash payment of £191,000, in each case
subject to applicable taxation and other deductions. These amounts represented the vesting proportions applied to each of Mr Mills’
awards and a cash payment in respect of dividend equivalents on the shares which vested and other cash-settled matters.
Mr Mills requested, and the Remuneration Committee agreed, that the cash sum in lieu of dividends be reduced and the number
of shares increased by an equivalent amount, and these variations are included in the figures above. The agreed vesting levels
resulted in Mr Mills forfeiting over half of the awards which had been made to him under the incentive and retention schemes.
Full details of Mr Mills’ share awards are set out in the table on page 87.
Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment
Director Date of contract / letter Unexpired term Termination arrangements
Executive Directors
Ian Farmer 6 April 2006 Rolling contract Contract terminable on 364 days’ prior
Alan Ferguson 20 February 2007 Rolling contract written notice given by either the Company
or the individual (182 days in the case of
notice given by Mr Ferguson) except for
gross misconduct or in certain other
circumstances which may result in dismissal.
In the event that employment is terminated
by the Company without notice and not for
reasons of gross misconduct, the Directors
are entitled to receive a payment equivalent
to the value of the annual base salary and
contractual benefits which would have been
earned during this unworked notice period.
Non-executive Directors
Sir John Craven 24 January 2007
Karen de Segundo 22 April 2005 Letters of appointment generally provide for
Peter Godsoe 23 January 2008 a fixed term to the first AGM following
Sivi Gounden 28 September 2005 appointment, and then subject to re-
Michael Hartnall 12 January 2007 election by shareholders) a term running
Jonathan Leslie 4 June 2009 until the AGM three years from that date,
David Munroe 19 August 2007 subject to the Company’s Articles of
Roger Phillimore 23 January 2007 Association. No compensation is payable to
Jim Sutcliffe 11 August 2007 non-executive Directors for loss of office.
Former executive Director
Brad Mills 4 February 2004 Rolling contract Contract terminable on expiry of 12 months’
(Amended 19 November 2004) notice from the Company and 6 months’
notice from Brad Mills. The contract also
contained provisions for “gardening leave”
and payment in lieu of notice (being salary
and benefits for one year at the rate then in
force plus an estimate of any bonus due
from that year) at the discretion of the
Company.
This report was approved by the Board on 13 November 2009.
Jim Sutcliffe
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2009 90
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Lonmin Plc
We have audited the financial statements of Lonmin Plc for the year ended 30 September 2009 set out on pages 92 to 136.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been
applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with sections 495, 496 and 497 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we
are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work,
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 91, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s web-site at
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP .
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at
30 September 2009 and of the group’s loss for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice;
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and,
as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 65, in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Lynton Richmond (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
London
13 November 2009 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 91
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Responsibility Statement of the Directors in
respect of the Annual Report and Accounts
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of
the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation
taken as a whole; and
• the directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal
risks and uncertainties that they face.
Roger Phillimore Alan Ferguson
Chairman Chief Financial Officer
13 November 2009 92
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 30 September
2009 Special items 2009 2008 Special items 2008
Underlying
i
(note 3) Total Underlying
i
(note 3) Total
Continuing operations Note $m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue 2 1,062 – 1,062 2,231 – 2,231
EBITDA / (LBITDA)
ii
1 (49) (48) 1,059 (25) 1,034
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (94) – (94) (96) (174) (270)
Operating (loss) / profit
iii
4 (93) (49) (142) 963 (199) 764
Impairment of available for sale
financial assets 14 – (39) (39) – (19) (19)
Finance income 6 6 – 6 13 – 13
Finance expenses 6 (25) (73) (98) (6) – (6)
Share of profit of associate
and joint venture 13 1 – 1 27 – 27
(Loss) / profit before taxation (111) (161) (272) 997 (218) 779
Income tax (expense) / income
iv
7 (18) (33) (51) (322) 109 (213)
(Loss) / profit for the year (129) (194) (323) 675 (109) 566
Attributable to:
– Equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc (103) (182) (285) 550 (95) 455
– Minority interest (26) (12) (38) 125 (14) 111
(Loss) / earnings per share (restated)
v
8 (59.2)c (163.7)c 335.8c 277.8c
Diluted (loss) / earnings
per share (restated)
v, vi
8 (59.2)c (163.7)c 334.7c 276.9c
Dividends paid per share (restated)
v
9 – 113.6c
Consolidated Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense
for the year ended 30 September
2009 2008
Total Total
Note $m $m
(Loss) / profit for the year (323) 566
Change in fair value of available for sale financial assets 14 9 (127)
Net changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 5 16
Gains on settled cash flow hedges released to the income statement (24) (4)
Foreign exchange on retranslation of associate and joint venture 13 6 5
Deferred tax on items taken directly to the statement of recognised income and expense 6 16
Total recognised (expense) / income for the year (321) 472
Attributable to:
– Equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 28 (280) 352
– Minority interest 28 (41) 120
28 (321) 472
Footnotes:
i Underlying (loss) / earnings are based on (loss) / profit for the year excluding one-off restructuring and reorganisation costs, impairment of available for
sale financial assets, foreign exchange on tax balances, exchange losses on Rights Issue proceeds and the movement in fair value of the derivative
liability in respect of the Rights Issue. For prior years, underlying also excludes profits on disposal of subsidiaries, impairment of goodwill, intangibles and
property, plant and equipment, takeover bid defence costs, pension scheme payments relating to scheme settlements and effects of changes in
corporate tax rates as disclosed in note 3 to the accounts.
ii EBITDA / (LBITDA) is operating profit / (loss) before depreciation, amortisation and impairment of goodwill, intangibles and property, plant and equipment.
iii Operating (loss) / profit is defined as revenue less operating expenses before impairment of available for sale financial assets, finance income and
expenses and share of profit of associate and joint venture.
iv The income tax expense substantially relates to overseas taxation and includes net exchange losses of $38 million (2008 – exchange gains of $88
million) as disclosed in note 7.
v During the year the Group undertook a Rights Issue of shares. As a result the 2009 LPS and diluted LPS and the 2008 EPS and diluted EPS and
dividends per share figures have been adjusted to the date of issue to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue as disclosed in note 8.
vi Diluted (loss) / earnings per share are based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive outstanding share options.
For the year ended 30 September 2009 outstanding share options were anti-dilutive and so have been excluded from diluted loss per share in
accordance with IAS 33 – Earnings Per Share. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 93
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 30 September
2009 2008
Note $m $m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 113 113
Intangible assets 11 964 949
Property, plant and equipment 12 2,036 1,893
Investment in associate and joint venture 13 159 163
Available for sale financial assets 14 68 96
Other receivables 14 25 19
3,365 3,233
Current assets
Inventories 16 271 319
Trade and other receivables 17 287 326
Assets held for sale 18 6 6
Tax recoverable 1 5
Derivative financial instruments 21 1 20
Cash and cash equivalents 33 282 226
848 902
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 (337) (346)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 20 (58) –
Tax payable (10) (55)
(405) (401)
Net current assets 443 501
Non-current liabilities
Employee benefits 15 (11) (21)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 20 (349) (529)
Deferred tax liabilities 23 (579) (540)
Provisions 24 (67) (50)
(1,006) (1,140)
Net assets 2,802 2,594
Capital and reserves
Share capital 28 193 156
Share premium 28 776 305
Other reserves 28 89 100
Retained earnings 28 1,359 1,586
Attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 28 2,417 2,147
Attributable to minority interest 28 385 447
Total equity 28 2,802 2,594
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 November 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roger Phillimore Chairman
Alan Ferguson Chief Financial Officer
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 94
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 30 September
2009 2008
Note $m $m
(Loss) / profit for the year (323) 566
Taxation 7 51 213
Share of profit after tax of associate and joint venture 13 (1) (27)
Finance income 6 (6) (13)
Finance expenses 6 98 6
Impairment of available for sale financial assets 3 39 19
Depreciation and amortisation 94 96
Other impairment 3 – 174
Change in inventories 48 (133)
Change in trade and other receivables 59 12
Change in trade and other payables (9) 37
Change in provisions 12 –
Profit on sale of subsidiary – (2)
Share-based payments (1) 6
Other non cash expenses / (income) 2 (7)
Cash flow from operations 63 947
Interest received 3 11
Interest and bank fees paid (34) (23)
Tax paid (48) (229)
Cash (outflow) / inflow from operating activities (16) 706
Cash flow from investing activities
Investment in joint venture 13 (5) –
Dividend received from associate 3 –
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary – 3
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (221) (354)
Purchase of intangible assets (13) (24)
Purchase of available for sale financial assets – (17)
Proceeds from disposal of assets held for sale – 1
Cash used in investing activities (236) (391)
Cash flow from financing activities
Equity dividends paid to Lonmin shareholders 28 – (186)
Dividends paid to minority 28 (21) (65)
Proceeds from current borrowings 33 58 –
Repayment of current borrowings 33 – (237)
Proceeds from non-current borrowings 33 225 170
Repayment of non-current borrowings 33 (405) –
Proceeds from Rights Issue 29 516 –
Costs of Rights Issue 28, 29 (21) –
Loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of Rights Issue 3, 29 (33) –
Issue of other ordinary share capital 28 16 6
Cash from / (used in) financing activities 335 (312)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 33 83 3
Opening cash and cash equivalents 33 226 221
Effect of exchange rate changes 33 (27) 2
Closing cash and cash equivalents 33 282 226 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 95
Notes to the Accounts
1 Statement on accounting policies
Reporting entity
Lonmin Plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the UK. The address of the Company’s registered office is
4 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7YL. The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended
30 September 2009 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) and the Group’s interest
in associates and jointly controlled entities.
Basis of preparation
Statement of compliance
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (adopted IFRSs).
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are
presented on pages 130 to 136. The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a
separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 November 2009.
Basis of measurement
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following:
• Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
• Available for sale assets are measured at fair value.
• Liabilities for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value.
• Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
No changes in the accounting policies have had any effect on the consolidated financial statements.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis. Management’s review of the factors likely to affect its future
development, performance and position of the business and the approach to financial risk management are given in the
Financial Review on pages 18 to 25 and in the Internal Controls and Risk Management section on pages 26 to 29.
Functional and presentation currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company and its
principal operations.
Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The primary areas in which estimates and judgements are applied are as follows:
The carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for which the key assumptions, and
management approach for determining these, is described in the policy on Impairment.
Reserves and resources are determined by Competent Persons and audited bi-annually according to the South African
code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (SAMREC). The determination of
resources and reserves requires a wide variety of assessments regarding the geology of the ore body, the mining plans and
economic viability which are all subject to inherent uncertainties.
Inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain reflecting the stage of refinement. Prior to production as
final metal the inventory is always contained within a carrier material. As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken
to determine the metal content and how this is split by metal. Measurement and sampling accuracy can vary quite
significantly depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material. Management judgement, therefore, is also
applied.
The nature of the mining and processing operations of the Group gives rise to environmental obligations which are
reflected in the rehabilitation provision. The level of provision needs to reflect the present value of the future remediation costs.
Estimating the future remediation costs involves significant judgments including for example the local geography and geology,
whether contamination has occurred and, if so, the nature of contaminants involved and the remediation approach to be
taken and the likely costs which would be incurred. Such judgments are made using advice from expert advisors. In addition,
the outflows in respect of rehabilitation are generally far into the future. Judgment is therefore also involved in estimating the
timing of the cash flow and in the discounting factors to determine the present value.
Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in
these Group financial statements, and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 96
Notes to the Accounts
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the
financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting
rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition
at which date control commences or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate, at which date control ceases. Where
necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the
accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Associates
An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant
influence but not control over the financial and operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group
holds between 20 and 50% of the voting power of another entity. Associates are accounted for using the equity method and
are initially measured at cost. The Group’s investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any impairment
losses. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the income and expenses and equity movements
of any associates, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant
influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in
an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to nil and
the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments
on behalf of the investee.
Joint ventures
The Group undertakes a number of business activities through joint ventures. Joint ventures are established through
contractual arrangements which result in the strategic, financial and operating policies of the venture being jointly controlled.
Such joint ventures are treated as jointly controlled entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and
joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are
eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency of the Group entities
using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary
assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising
on the retranslation of available for sale financial assets which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Revenue
Revenue is derived from the sale of metal inventories and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable,
after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes. A sale is recognised when: the significant
risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer (this is generally when title and insurance risk have passed to the
customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location); recovery of the consideration is probable;
the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably; there is no continuing management involvement
with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
All third-party metal sales are recognised as revenue. The Group does not credit capitalised development costs with
income arising from production in development phases but rather recognises such metal as inventory (see Inventories policy).
Finance income and expenses
Finance income comprises interest on funds invested (including available for sale financial assets), dividend income, gains on
the disposal of available for sale financial assets net of costs of disposal, expected returns on pension scheme assets, and
gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principle outstanding and the effective interest rate
applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Group’s rights to receive payment have been established.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees (which are capitalised and amortised over the life
of the facility), unwinding of discount on provisions, interest costs of pension scheme liabilities, and losses on hedging
instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method except for borrowing costs
which are directly attributable to the acquisition, or construction of an asset. Such costs are capitalised to property, plant and
equipment or intangible assets during the period of construction provided that future economic benefit is considered
probable. Capitalised interest is shown as interest paid in the consolidated cash flow statement. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 97
Notes to the Accounts
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received.
Research and development
Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure which meets the recognition criteria for an intangible asset under IAS 38 – Intangible Assets,
is capitalised and then amortised over the useful economic life of the developed asset, otherwise it is charged to the income
statement as incurred. Borrowing costs related to the development of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Capitalised development expenditure is recognised at cost, and subsequently carried at cost less any accumulated
impairment losses, where it can be demonstrated that the expenditure will result in completion of an asset which, when
available for use or sale, will result in future economic benefit arising for the Group.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral
reserves and includes costs relating to the following: acquisition of exploration rights; conducting geological studies;
exploratory drilling and sampling; and evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral
resource.
Expenditure incurred on activities that precede exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, being all expenditure
incurred prior to securing the legal rights to explore an area, is expensed immediately.
Expenditure towards in-house exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves for each area of interest is
expensed until it is considered probable that future economic benefit will arise through further exploration and subsequent
development of the area of interest or, alternatively, by its sale.
Pre-feasibility studies involve the review of one or more potential development options with the aim of moving forward to
the more detailed feasibility study stage. Expenditure related to such studies is expensed in full as there is insufficient certainty
that future economic benefit will be generated at this stage of a project.
Expenditure relating to feasibility studies which support the technical feasibility and commercial viability of an area is
capitalised under exploration and evaluation assets.
Where a feasibility study reaches a favourable conclusion, accumulated exploration and evaluation costs are transferred to
mineral rights within intangibles or capital work in progress within property, plant and equipment as appropriate on
commencement of the development phase of the related project. Where the feasibility study reaches an adverse conclusion,
any previously capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off immediately.
Expenditure on purchased exploration and evaluation assets is capitalised at fair value at the time of purchase.
Subsequent expenditure may be capitalised at cost. Carrying values are subject to impairment reviews as per the Group’s
policy. Exploration and evaluation expenditure is classified as property, plant and equipment or intangible depending on the
nature of the expenditure.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is a class of assets which are not available for use. Therefore
amortisation is not provided on such assets.
Mineral mining rights, which are obtained following the completion of a feasibility study, are not included within exploration
and evaluation expenditure. They are capitalised at cost under IAS 38 – Intangible Assets and are amortised on a units of
production basis over the life of the mine.
Share-based payment
From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is
recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become
unconditionally entitled to payment. The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date. Any changes in
the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model
or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award. Market related performance conditions are reflected
in the fair value of the share. Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about
the number of awards expected to vest; the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-
market conditions are met.
Business combinations and goodwill
At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, associate or joint venture fair values are attributed to the acquired
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Any provisional fair values are finalised within twelve months of the
acquisition date. Goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the purchase consideration and the acquired
interest in the fair values of those net assets. Goodwill is initially recognised at fair value. Any negative goodwill is credited to
the income statement in the year of acquisition. If an undertaking is subsequently sold, the amount of goodwill carried on the
balance sheet at the date of disposal is charged to the income statement in the period of disposal as part of the gain or loss
on disposal.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures which are equity accounted for is included within the Group’s
investments. Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of the associate.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 98
Notes to the Accounts
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Intangible assets
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired by the Group have finite useful lives and are measured at cost less
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Where amortisation is charged on these assets, the expense
is taken to the income statement through operating costs.
Amortisation of mineral rights is provided on a units of production basis over the remaining life of mine to residual value
(20 to 40 years).
All other intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives subject to a maximum of 20 years and are tested
for impairment at each reporting date when there is an indication of a possible impairment.
Property, plant and equipment
Recognition
Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at cost and subsequently less accumulated depreciation and
any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets
includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working
condition for its intended use, and any other costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they
are located. Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency
purchases of property, plant and equipment. Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets
are capitalised to the cost of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds on
disposal with the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and are recognised net in the income statement.
Componentisation
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as
separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it
is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured
reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised upon replacement. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of
property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Capital work in progress
Development costs are capitalised and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when
available for use.
Capitalised development costs include expenditure incurred to develop new operations and to expand existing capacity.
Costs include interest capitalised during the period up to the level that the qualifying assets permit.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line or units of production basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives or the
remaining life of mine, if shorter, to residual value. The life of mine is based on proven and probable reserves. The expected
useful lives of the major categories of property, plant and equipment are as follows:
Method Rate
Shafts and underground Units of production 2.5% – 5.0% per annum (20 – 40 years)
Metallurgical Straight line 2.5% – 7.1% per annum (14 – 40 years)
Infrastructure Straight line 2.5% – 2.9% per annum (35 – 40 years)
Other plant and equipment Straight line 2.5% – 50.0% per annum (2 – 40 years)
No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
Impairment
The Group’s principal assets are property, plant and equipment, intangibles and goodwill associated with exploration and
evaluation, mining and processing activities. For the purpose of assessing recoverable amount, these assets are grouped into
cash generating units (“CGUs”).
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. At each balance sheet date, the Group
assesses whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount
of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment (if any).
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually regardless of whether an indication of
impairment exists.
Items of property, plant and equipment that are not in use are reviewed annually for impairment on a fair value less costs
to sell basis.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of
the asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 99
Notes to the Accounts
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Impairment (continued)
Value in use
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, based on the most up to date business forecasts, are discounted
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and
the risks specific to the assets for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
The key assumptions contained within the business forecasts and management’s approach to determine appropriate
values is set out below:
Key Assumption Management Approach
PGM prices Projections are determined through a combination of the views of the Directors, market
estimates and forecasts and other sector information.
Production volume Projections are based on the capacity and expected operational capabilities of the
mines, the grade of the ore, and the efficiencies of processing and refining operations.
Production costs Projections are based on current cost adjusted for expected cost changes as well as
giving consideration to specific issues such as the difficulty in mining particular sections
of the reef and the mining method employed.
Capital expenditure requirements Projections are based on the operational plan, which sets out the long-term plan of the
business and is approved by the Board.
Foreign currency exchange rates Projections are made using external sources of information.
Reserves and resources of the CGU Projections are determined through surveys performed by competent persons and the
views of the Directors of the Company.
Management uses past experience and assessment of future conditions, together with external sources of information in
order to assign values to the key assumptions.
Management has projected cash flows over the life of the relevant mining operation which is significantly greater than 5
years. Projecting cash flows over a period longer than 5 years is in line with industry practice and is supported by the Group’s
history of the resources expected to be found being proven to exist. Management does not apply a growth rate because a
detailed life of mine plan is used to forecast future production volumes.
For each CGU a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate based on the weighted average cost of capital for Group is used for
impairment testing. The key factors affecting the risk premium applied are the relevant stage of the development of the asset
in the CGU (extensions to existing operations having significantly lower risk than evaluation projects for example), the level of
knowledge and consistency of the ore body and sovereign risk. The real weighted average cost of capital applied to goodwill
in the Marikana CGU was 8% (2008 – 8%).
Fair value less costs to sell
Fair value less costs to sell has been determined by reference to the best information available to reflect the amount that the
Group could receive for the CGU in an arm’s length transaction.
When comparable market transactions or public valuations of similar assets exist these are used as a source of evidence.
However, the Group believes that mining CGUs tend to be unique and have their value determined largely by the nature of the
underlying ore body. The fair value therefore is typically determined by calculating the value of the CGU using an appropriate
valuation methodology such as calculating the post-tax net present value using a discounted cash flow forecast (as described
in value in use).
This approach has been used in determining the value of the Akanani CGU based on the most up to date detailed mine
and operating plans, modified as appropriate to meet the requirements of IAS 36.
The resources at Akanani include the exploration and evaluation asset, a deferred tax liability and tax goodwill. The
exploration and evaluation asset includes an amount for tax amortisation benefit. A deferred tax liability was created on
acquisition but because deferred tax liabilities are not discounted and the tax amortisation benefits are, a ‘tax goodwill’
balance was created. This tax goodwill balance represents the effect of not discounting the deferred tax liability. This is
reviewed for impairment as required under IAS 36 as well as under IFRS 6.
In preparing the financial statements, management has considered whether a reasonably possible change in the key
assumptions on which management has based its determination of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs would cause the
units’ carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts. For the Marikana CGU, because of the forecast for long-term
PGM prices and the very significant reserves and resources in the ground, management do not believe that a reasonably
possible change in any of the key assumptions would lead to impairment.
For the Akanani CGU management’s assessment of mineral resources and reserves is higher than that at acquisition and
there has been limited change in anticipated long-term metal prices since this time. For the Akanani CGU management do
not believe there are relevant market transactions which can be used to consider the asset on a fair value less costs to sell
basis. Management do not believe there are any current indicators of impairment. Given the Akanani CGU is at the
exploration and evaluation stage it is reasonably possible that the completion of that stage will result in changes to indicated
and inferred reserves of PGM ounces and the quantity of resources is also sensitive to the long-term metal prices. Adverse
changes in reserves and resources or long-term metal prices might cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying
amount of the CGU. Any adverse impact on the Akanani exploration and evaluation asset could have a direct impact on the
carrying value of the tax goodwill which has to be assessed under IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets. As the PGM ounces are
only indicated and inferred, and plans for the extraction of the mineral resource are not that far advanced, it is considered
impractical to provide quantified sensitivities and an estimate of what headroom, if any, exists.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 100
Notes to the Accounts
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Impairment (continued)
Goodwill
The recoverable amount of goodwill, as allocated to relevant CGUs, has been tested for impairment annually, or when such
events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Impairment losses within a CGU are allocated first to goodwill and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other
assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
Exploration and evaluation assets
Under IFRS 6 exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the
carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amount. When this occurs, any impairment loss is immediately
charged to the income statement.
Reversal of impairment
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a previously recognised impairment loss
has reversed. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable
amount. An impairment loss is only reversed to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, had the impairment not been made. A
reversal of impairment is recognised as income immediately.
Leases
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present
value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset as determined at the inception of the lease. The
obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans and
other borrowings, with the amount payable within 12 months included in bank overdrafts and loans within current liabilities.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period. Rentals under operating leases are
charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Assets held for sale
When an asset’s carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, to take place within twelve months of
the balance sheet date, rather than through continuing use it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying
value and fair value less costs to sell. No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Immediately prior to sale the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (which includes the applicable proportion of production overheads) and net
realisable value.
Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) inventory is valued by allocating costs, based on the joint cost of production, apportioned
according to the relative sales value of each of the PGMs produced.
By-product metals are valued at the incremental cost of production from the point of split-off from the PGM processing
stream.
In the process of initially developing the ore reserve it is common that metal is produced, although not at normal operating
levels. Development is split into different phases according to the mining method used with differing levels of production
expected in each phase. The Group recognises the metal produced in each development phase in inventory with an
appropriate proportion of cost as operating costs. This allocation is calculated by reference to the produced volumes in
relation to the total volumes expected from the development.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily
convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original
maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash
equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as the bank overdraft is repayable on demand and forms an
integral part of the Group’s cash management.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes in accordance with local regulations. A defined contribution
plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity and has
no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans
are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
For current UK employees, the Group either makes payments on behalf of employees into a defined contribution scheme
which the Group has set up, or makes direct payments to employees who may then make their own arrangements. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 101
Notes to the Accounts
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Taxation
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax to be paid or recovered on the taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted or
substantively enacted at the reporting date during the periods being reported upon, and any adjustments to tax payable in
respect of previous years. Current tax also includes secondary tax charges on dividends remitted which are recognised upon
the declaration of relevant dividends.
Deferred tax as directed by IAS 12 – Income Taxes is recognised in respect of certain temporary differences identified at
the balance sheet date. Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Group’s assets and
liabilities and their tax base.
A deferred tax liability is recognised in a business combination in respect of any identified intangible asset representing the
difference between the fair value of the acquired asset and its tax base. Recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of
such a difference gives rise to a corresponding increase in goodwill recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax Group
where the entities have the right to settle current tax liabilities net. Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when,
on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same
jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising in relation to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities
and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that
the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax relating to the secondary tax charges on the remittance of overseas earnings is provided to the extent that
such remittance of earnings can reasonably be foreseen.
Rehabilitation costs
Rehabilitation costs are provided in full based on estimates of the future costs to be incurred, calculated on a discounted
basis. As the provision is recognised, it is either capitalised as part of the cost of the related mine or written off to the income
statement if utilised within one year. Where costs are capitalised the impact of such costs on the income statement is spread
over the life of mine through the accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation over a units of production
basis of the increased costs of the mining assets.
Provisions
Provision is made when a present or legal obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the
amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments (other than derivatives) comprise bank loans, available for sale financial assets,
trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and short-term deposits.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the
income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial
instruments are measured as described below.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. These also comprise bank overdrafts that are
repayable on demand, for the purpose of the cash flow statement only.
Investments are classified into loans and receivables, held-to-maturity and available for sale. The classification depends on
the purpose for which the investments were acquired, the nature of the investments and whether the investment is quoted or
not. The classification of investments is determined at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables and investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortised cost and gains or losses are
recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation
process.
Available for sale financial assets
The Group’s investments in equity securities and certain debt securities are classified as available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except
when market value has fallen below original cost when the losses are taken to the income statement together with any foreign
exchange gains or losses arising whilst the asset is impaired. When an investment is written off or sold, any cumulative gains
or losses in equity are recycled into the income statement. Fair value is determined by using the market price at the balance
sheet date where this is available. Where market price is not available the Directors’ best estimates of market value are used.
Bank loans
Bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, net of transaction costs incurred, and are adjusted to amortise transaction costs
over the term of the loan.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 102
Notes to the Accounts
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Financial instruments (continued)
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are used by the Group to manage exposure to market risks from treasury operations and
commodity price risks on by-products. The principal derivative instruments used are foreign currency swaps, interest rate
swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward price agreements on by-products. The Group does not hold or issue
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value. Attributable costs are recognised
in profit or loss when occurred and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value. The method of recognising
the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of
the item being hedged. Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is recognised directly in
equity if effective. Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised
immediately in the income statement.
Segmental reporting
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in either providing products or services (business
segment), or is providing products or services within a particular economic environment (geographical segment) which is
subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments. The Group’s primary format for segment
reporting is based on business segments. The business segments are determined based on the Group’s management and
internal reporting structure.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be
allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and
intangible assets other than goodwill, and any capitalised interest.
New standards and amendments in the year
There were no new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the period which
materially impacted the Group’s financial statements.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations to IFRS as adopted by the EU are not yet
effective for the year ended 30 September 2009, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial
statements. The following are of relevance to the Group:
• IFRS 8 – Operating Segments (effective 1 January 2009) introduces the “management approach” to segment reporting.
IFRS 8, which becomes mandatory for the Group’s 2010 financial statements, will require the disclosure of segment
information based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to
assess each segment’s performance and to allocate resources to them. The Group does not expect significant changes
to be implemented.
• IAS 1 (amendment) – Presentation of Financial Statements (effective 1 January 2009) affects the presentation of owner
changes in equity (with the requirement to present in a statement of changes in equity for all owner changes in equity) and
to present comprehensive income. It does not change the recognition, measurement or disclosure of specific transactions
and other events required by other IFRSs.
• IFRS 7 (amendment) – Financial Instruments: Disclosure (effective 1 January 2009) improves the disclosure requirements
relating to fair value measurements and reinforces existing principles regarding disclosures of liquidity risk associated with
financial instruments.
• IAS 23 – Borrowing Costs (effective 1 January 2009) requires that an entity shall capitalise borrowing costs that are
directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
This is in-line with the Group’s existing policy regarding the capitalisation of borrowing costs.
• IFRS 3 – Business Combinations (effective 1 July 2009) is a comprehensive revision of IFRS 3 which will have an impact
on future acquisitions and the impact on the accounting policies of the group will be assessed.
• IFRS 2 – (amendment) Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions (effective 1 January 2010).
In addition to the above the IASB has issued IAS 32 (amendment) – Classification of Rights Issues (effective 1 February 2010)
which allows Rights Issues which will exchange an entity’s own equity for a fixed amount of cash in any currency to be
treated as equity if the rights have been offered pro-rata to all existing equity holders. The Rights Issue undertaken by the
Group meets this criteria however, as explained in note 29, as the amendment has not been adopted by the EU and cannot
be applied by the Group. If the amendment is adopted by the EU the Group may restate the 2009 results in the 2010
financial statements. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 103
Notes to the Accounts
2 Segmental analysis
The Group’s primary operating segment is the mining of Platinum Group Metals. The majority of the Group’s operations are
based in South Africa.
2009
Platinum
ii
Corporate
iii
Exploration
iv
Total
Analysis by business group $m $m $m $m
Revenue – external sales 1,062 – – 1,062
Operating loss (81) (50) (11) (142)
Segment total assets 3,262 183 768 4,213
Segment total liabilities (1,216) (24) (171) (1,411)
Capital expenditure
i
229 – 29 258
Depreciation and amortisation 94 – – 94
Impairment losses (note 3) 39 – – 39
Share of profit of associate and joint venture 1 – – 1
Share of net assets of associate and joint venture 159 – – 159
2008
Platinum
ii
Corporate
iii
Exploration
iv
Total
Analysis by business group $m $m $m $m
Revenue – external sales 2,231 – – 2,231
Operating profit / (loss) 892 (101) (27) 764
Segment total assets 3,369 25 741 4,135
Segment total liabilities (1,100) (267) (174) (1,541)
Capital expenditure
i
389 – 36 425
Depreciation and amortisation 96 – – 96
Impairment losses (note 3) 193 – – 193
Share of profit of associate and joint venture 27 – – 27
Share of net assets of associate and joint venture 163 – – 163
2009
South Africa UK Other Total
Analysis by geographical location $m $m $m $m
Revenue – external sales 1,062 – – 1,062
Segment total assets 4,023 164 26 4,213
Capital expenditure
i
258 – – 258
2008
South Africa UK Other Total
Analysis by geographical location $m $m $m $m
Revenue – external sales 2,231 – – 2,231
Segment total assets 4,091 10 34 4,135
Capital expenditure
i
425 – – 425
Footnotes:
i Capital expenditure includes additions to property, plant and equipment (including capitalised interest), intangible assets and goodwill in accordance
with IAS 14 – Segment Reporting.
ii The Platinum segment includes all operational activities together with direct overheads, plus investments in mining related assets.
iii The Corporate segment consists of the London head office and the Johannesburg office.
iv The Exploration segment comprises the investment in the Akanani deposit and various exploration sites around the world.
Revenue by destination is analysed by geographical area below:
2009 2008
$m $m
The Americas 227 580
Asia 296 798
Europe 417 349
South Africa 122 496
Zimbabwe – 8
1,062 2,231
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 104
Notes to the Accounts
3 Special items
‘Special items’ are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of
the income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and for consistency
with prior years.
2009 2008
$m $m
Operating loss: (49) (199)
– Restructuring and reorganisation costs
i
(49) –
– Profit on disposal of subsidiary
ii
– 2
– Pensions
iii
– (9)
– Defence costs
iv
– (18)
– Impairment loss
v
– (174)
Impairment of available for sale financial assets
vi
(39) (19)
Finance costs: (73) –
– Loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of Rights Issue (note 29) (33) –
– Exchange difference on holding Rights Issue proceeds received in advance (note 29) (4) –
– Movement in fair value of derivative liability in respect of Rights Issue (note 29) (36) –
Loss on special items before taxation (161) (218)
Taxation related to special items (note 7) (33) 109
Special loss before minority interest (194) (109)
Minority interest 12 14
Special loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc (182) (95)
Footnotes:
i During the year the Group incurred $49 million in restructuring and reorganisation costs (2008 – $nil) primarily comprising employee exit costs
together with abnormal non-productive operating costs at Limpopo following announcement of its closure.
ii During 2008 the Group disposed of a subsidiary, Southern Era Mining Exploration South Africa (Pty) Limited, for consideration of $3 million resulting
in a profit before tax of $2 million.
iii During 2008 the Group settled the Lonmin Superannuation Scheme (LSS) and incurred a $9 million charge.
iv In 2008 the Group incurred $18 million of defence costs relating to a takeover bid that occurred.
v In 2008 impairment charges primarily comprised the write down of property, plant and equipment of $89 million for the Baobab shaft at Limpopo
together with $73 million of smelting synergies recognised as goodwill recognised at acquisition and $7 million relating to the remaining carrying
value of the Messina concentrate off-take contract. This impairment arose as a result of reduced reserves and weaker short-term pricing
anticipated.
vi During the year certain available for sale financial assets were marked to market and have fallen below original acquisition costs resulting in $39
million of impairment charges being taken to the income statement (2008 – $19 million). In the current year $9 million subsequent gain on financial
assets has been recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense (2008 – $127 million loss). 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 105
Notes to the Accounts
4 Group operating (loss) / profit
Group operating (loss) / profit is arrived at as follows:
2009 2008
$m $m
Revenue 1,062 2,231
Cost of sales (1,088) (1,121)
Gross (loss) / profit (26) 1,110
Administration expenses (56) (120)
Exploration (note 2) (11) (27)
Special costs (note 3) (49) (199)
Group operating (loss) / profit (142) 764
Group operating (loss) / profit is stated after charging / (crediting):
2009 2008
$m $m
Operating lease charges – land and buildings 1 1
Depreciation charge – property, plant and equipment 80 80
Amortisation charge – intangible assets 14 16
Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments
i
10 15
Special items (note 3) 49 199
Share-based payments 4 6
Foreign exchange gains (3) (13)
Footnote:
i Included within employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments is $5 million (2008 – $9 million) in respect of Directors.
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates included in operating costs:
2009 2008
$m $m
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
Fees payable to the Company’s
auditor for the audit of the
Company’s annual accounts 0.2 – 0.2 0.3 – 0.3
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor
and its associates for other services:
The audit of the Company’s
subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.8 1.1 0.3 1.2 1.5
Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2
Tax services ––– – 0.2 0.2
Sustainability assurance services – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 0.1
IT assurance services ––– – 0.5 0.5
Accounting and other advice 0.1 – 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.5
0.7 1.0 1.7 1.1 2.2 3.3
In addition fees of $0.6 million in relation to the Rights Issue have been deducted from the share premium account.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 106
Notes to the Accounts
5 Employees
The average number of employees and Directors during the year was as follows:
2009 2008
No. No.
South Africa 21,944 25,274
Europe 31 36
Rest of world 25 52
22,000 25,362
The aggregate payroll costs of employees, key management and Directors were as follows:
2009 2008
Employee costs $m $m
Wages and salaries 455 501
Social security costs 9 14
Pension costs 33 36
Share-based payments 4 6
501 557
2009 2008
Key management compensation $m $m
Short-term employee benefits 9 9
Termination payments – 5
Post-employment benefits 1 1
Key management costs excluding share-based payments 10 15
Share-based payments 1 3
11 18
The key management compensation analysed above represents amounts in respect of the Executive Committee (Exco) which
comprised the two executive Directors and five other senior managers (2008 – three executive Directors and eight other
senior managers).
The sterling equivalents of total Directors’ emoluments and emoluments of the highest paid Director together with
full details of Directors’ remuneration, pensions and benefits in kind are given in the Remuneration Committee report on
pages 72 to 89. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 107
Notes to the Accounts
6 Net finance costs
2009 2008
$m $m
Finance income: 6 13
Interest receivable 3 5
Movement in fair value of other receivables (note 14) 3 1
Other interest receivable – 7
Finance expenses: (25) (6)
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (15) (22)
Bank fees (8) (1)
Capitalised interest
i
23 23
Unwind of discounting on provisions (note 24) (5) (4)
Exchange differences on other receivables (note 14) 3 (4)
Exchange differences on net debt
ii
(23) 2
Special items: (73) –
Loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of Rights Issue (notes 3 and 29) (33) –
Exchange difference on holding Rights Issue proceeds received in advance (notes 3 and 29) (4) –
Movement in fair value of derivative liability in respect of Rights Issue (notes 3 and 29) (36) –
Total finance expenses (98) (6)
Net finance (expense) / income (92) 7
Footnotes:
i Interest expenses incurred have been capitalised on a Group basis to the extent that there is an appropriate qualifying asset. The weighted average
interest rate used by the Group for capitalisation is 4.8% (2008 – 4.7%).
ii Net debt is defined by the Group as cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings
less unamortised bank fees.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 108
Notes to the Accounts
7 Taxation
2009 2008
$m $m
United Kingdom:
Current tax expense at 28% (2008 – 28%) 33 126
Less amount of the benefit arising from double tax relief available (33) (126)
Total UK tax expense – –
Overseas:
Current tax expense at 28% (2008 – 28%) excluding special items 11 261
Corporate tax expense 1 224
Tax on dividends remitted 10 37
Deferred tax expense: 7 61
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7 49
Prior year adjustment 12 –
Tax on dividends unremitted (12) 12
Special items – UK and overseas (note 3): 33 (109)
Reversal of utilisation / (utilisation) of losses from prior years to offset deferred tax liability
i
1 (2)
Exchange on current taxation
ii
(5) (19)
Exchange on deferred taxation
ii
43 (69)
Tax on restructuring and reorganisation costs (6) –
Change in South African corporate tax rate from 29% to 28%
iii
– (19)
Actual tax charge 51 213
Tax charge excluding special items (note 3) 18 322
Effective tax rate (19)% 27%
Effective tax rate excluding special items (note 3) (16)% 32%
A reconciliation of the standard tax charge to the actual tax charge was as follows:
2009 2009 2008 2008
$m $m
Tax (credit) / charge at standard tax rate 28% (76) 28% 218
Special items as defined above (12%) 33 (14%) (109)
Tax effect of impairment relating to Baobab shaft at Limpopo – – 6% 49
Tax effect of impairment of available for sale financial assets (4%) 11 1% 5
Tax effect of temporary differences relating to prior years (4%) 10 6% 49
Tax effect of losses in respect of Rights Issue (7%) 20 – –
Tax effect of unutilised losses (7%) 18 – –
Foreign exchange impacts on taxable profits (13%) 35 – 1
Actual tax charge (19%) 51 27% 213
The Group’s primary operations are based in South Africa. Therefore, the relevant standard tax rate for the Group is the South
African statutory tax rate of 28% (2008 – 28%). The secondary tax rate on dividends remitted by South African companies is
10% (2008 – 10%).
Footnotes:
i The Group holds a number of available for sale financial assets which are marked to market. In the current and prior year most of the investments
decreased in value resulting in the unwind of the associated deferred tax balances which had accumulated on the previous increases in fair value of
the investments. Losses below initial carrying value have not created deferred tax assets because future profits arising in relevant statutory entities
are not considered sufficiently certain. In the prior year one of the investments increased in value resulting in a deferred tax balance arising on
setting off unutilised tax losses against the gain. In the current year this investment decreased in value resulting in part of the previously recognised
deferred tax balance reversing and the reversal of related utilised losses.
ii Overseas tax charges are predominantly calculated based on Rand financial statements. As the Group’s functional currency is US Dollar this leads
to a variety of foreign exchange impacts being the retranslation of current and deferred tax balances and monetary assets, as well as other
translation differences. The Rand denominated deferred tax balance in US Dollars at 30 September 2009 is $412 million (30 September 2008 –
$373 million).
iii The corporation tax rate for the year was 28% (2008 – 28%). The corporation tax rate changed to 28% in the prior financial year which resulted in a
net release of deferred tax liabilities of $19 million. This tax saving was reported as special. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 109
Notes to the Accounts
8 (Loss) / earnings per share
(Loss) / earnings per share have been calculated on the loss attributable to equity shareholders amounting to $285 million
(2008 – profit $455 million) using a weighted average number of 174,116,102 ordinary shares in issue (2008 – 163,803,041
ordinary shares).
During the year the Group undertook a capital raising by way of a Rights Issue. As a result the (LPS) / EPS figures have
been adjusted retrospectively as required by IAS 33 – Earnings Per Share. On 4 June 2009, 35,072,129 ordinary shares were
issued with two new ordinary shares issued for every existing nine ordinary shares held. For the calculation of the (LPS) / EPS,
the number of shares held prior to 4 June 2009 have been increased by a bonus factor of 1.048 to reflect the bonus element
of the Rights Issue.
Diluted (loss) / earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by
dilutive outstanding share options in accordance with IAS 33 – Earnings Per Share. In the 12 months to 30 September 2009
outstanding share options were anti-dilutive and so have been excluded from diluted loss per share in accordance with IAS 33
– Earnings Per Share.
2009 2008 (restated)
Loss for Per share Profit for Per share
the year Number of amount the year Number of amount
$m shares cents $m shares cents
Basic (LPS) / EPS (285) 174,116,102 (163.7) 455 163,803,041 277.8
Share option schemes – – – – 520,181 (0.9)
Diluted (LPS) / EPS (285) 174,116,102 (163.7) 455 164,323,222 276.9
2009 2008 (restated)
Loss for Per share Profit for Per share
the year Number of amount the year Number of amount
$m shares cents $m shares cents
Underlying (LPS) / EPS (103) 174,116,102 (59.2) 550 163,803,041 335.8
Share option schemes – – – – 520,181 (1.1)
Diluted Underlying (LPS) / EPS (103) 174,116,102 (59.2) 550 164,323,222 334.7
Underlying (loss) / earnings per share has been presented as the Directors consider it important to present the underlying
results of the business. Underlying (loss) / earnings per share is based on the (loss) / earnings attributable to equity
shareholders adjusted to exclude special items (as defined in note 3) as follows:
2009 2008 (restated)
(Loss) / profit Per share Profit for Per share
for the year Number of amount the year Number of amount
$m shares cents $m shares cents
Basic (LPS) / EPS (285) 174,116,102 (163.7) 455 163,803,041 277.8
Special items (note 3) 182 – 104.5 95 – 58.0
Underlying (LPS) / EPS (103) 174,116,102 (59.2) 550 163,803,041 335.8
Headline (loss) / earnings and the resultant headline (loss) / earnings per share are specific disclosures defined and required
by the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. These are calculated as follows:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
$m $m
(Loss) / earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders (IAS 33 earnings) (285) 455
Less profit on sale of subsidiary (note 3) – (2)
Add back loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 –
Add back impairment of assets (note 3) 39 193
Tax related to the above items – 1
Headline (loss) / earnings (242) 647
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 110
Notes to the Accounts
8 (Loss) / earnings per share (continued)
2009 2008 (restated)
Loss for Per share Profit for Per share
the year Number of amount the year Number of amount
$m shares cents $m shares cents
Headline (LPS) / EPS (242) 174,116,102 (139.0) 647 163,803,041 395.0
Share option schemes – – – – 520,181 (1.3)
Diluted Headline (LPS) / EPS (242) 174,116,102 (139.0) 647 164,323,222 393.7
9 Dividends
2009 2008 (restated)
i
$m Cents per share $m Cents per share
Prior year final dividend paid in the year – – 94 57.3
Interim dividend paid in the year – – 92 56.3
Total dividend paid in the year – – 186 113.6
Interim dividend paid in the year – – 92 56.3
Proposed final dividend for the year – – – –
Total dividend in respect of the year – – 92 56.3
Footnotes:
i During the year the Group undertook a Rights Issue. As a result, the dividend per share figures have been adjusted retrospectively by applying a
factor of 1.048 in order to adjust for the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
10 Goodwill
2009 2008
$m $m
Cost:
At 1 October 186 186
As at 30 September 186 186
Impairment:
At 1 October 73 –
Charge in the year – 73
At 30 September 73 73
Net book value at 30 September 113 113
There are two cash generating units (CGUs) in the Group relevant for the purposes of evaluating goodwill. The Marikana CGU
operates as a single business and mines and processes substantially all of the ore produced by the Group. The Akanani CGU
is located in a separate geographic area and includes the Akanani asset acquired on the purchase of AfriOre Limited.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined using the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In determining the recoverable amounts for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs the key assumptions have been set out in
the Group’s impairment policy (see note 1).
At 30 September 2009 and 30 September 2008 goodwill is allocated as follows:
– $40 million is allocated to the Marikana CGU. This arose on the acquisition of a further 9.11% of the principal mining
operations of the Group in 2004.
– $73 million ‘tax goodwill’ is allocated to the Akanani CGU.
In 2008 a review was carried out on the carrying value of the $73 million of smelting synergies allocated to the Marikana
CGU that arose on the acquisition of Messina Platinum Mines Limited in 2005. This goodwill was fully impaired in 2008 as
explained in note 3. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 111
Notes to the Accounts
11 Intangible assets
2009 2008
Exploration Exploration
and Mineral and Mineral
evaluation rights Other Total evaluation rights Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Cost:
At 1 October 666 337 47 1,050 630 337 47 1,014
Additions 29 – – 29 36 – – 36
At 30 September 695 337 47 1,079 666 337 47 1,050
Amortisation:
At 1 October – 73 28 101 – 64 14 78
Charge for the year – 7 7 14 – 9 7 16
Impairment – – – – – – 7 7
At 30 September – 80 35 115 – 73 28 101
Net book value:
At 30 September 695 257 12 964 666 264 19 949
The net book value of other intangible assets at 30 September 2009 represented capitalised software development costs
$12 million (2008 – $19 million).
In the prior year, the Messina off-take contract was impaired ($7 million) following the impairment of the Baobab shaft at
Limpopo (as explained in note 3).
Additions to exploration and evaluation assets include $16 million of capitalised interest (2008 – $12 million).
The Group has exploration and evaluation assets of $695 million (2008 – $666 million) relating to the exploration
operations at Akanani. $611 million arose at acquisition in February 2007.
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill (see note 10).
The Group’s approach to assessing the intangible assets, including exploration and evaluation assets, for impairment is
set out in the accounting policies (see note 1).
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 112
Notes to the Accounts
12 Property, plant and equipment
Capital work Leasehold Shafts and Other plant
in progress short term underground Metallurgical Infrastructure and equipment Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Cost or deemed cost:
At 1 October 2008 382 1 1,184 536 371 93 2,567
Additions 187 – 15 16 11 – 229
Transfers (295) – 229 35 24 7 –
Other – – (4) (4) – (1) (9)
At 30 September 2009 274 1 1,424 583 406 99 2,787
Depreciation:
At 1 October 2008 – – 350 154 154 16 674
Charge for the year – – 36 21 21 2 80
Other – – (3) – – – (3)
At 30 September 2009 – – 383 175 175 18 751
Net book value:
At 30 September 2009 274 1 1,041 408 231 81 2,036
At 30 September 2008 382 1 834 382 217 77 1,893
Capital work Leasehold Shafts and Other plant
in progress short term underground Metallurgical Infrastructure and equipment Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Cost or deemed cost:
At 1 October 2007 310 1 975 503 312 77 2,178
Additions 226 – 105 7 35 16 389
Transfers (154) – 104 26 24 – –
At 30 September 2008 382 1 1,184 536 371 93 2,567
Depreciation:
At 1 October 2007 – – 243 134 113 15 505
Charge for the year – – 36 20 23 1 80
Impairment charge – – 71 – 18 – 89
At 30 September 2008 – – 350 154 154 16 674
Net book value:
At 30 September 2008 382 1 834 382 217 77 1,893
At 30 September 2007 310 1 732 369 199 62 1,673
Interest capitalised during 2009 amounted to $7 million (2008 – $11 million). In accordance with the Group accounting
policies no depreciation has been provided on surface mining land having a book value of $13 million (2008 – $13 million).
As explained in note 3, in the prior year impairment reviews of the Baobab shaft at Limpopo operations resulted in
impairment charges to property, plant and equipment of $89 million. The remaining assets that relate to the Baobab shaft at
Limpopo which have a carrying value of $35 million were not impaired because they can be used in the business. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 113
Notes to the Accounts
13 Associate and Joint Venture
The Group owns 23.56% of its associate, Incwala Resources (Pty) Limited which is incorporated in South Africa. The
functional currency of Incwala Resources (Pty) Limited is the South African Rand. As a result any foreign exchange translation
gains or losses on the net assets of the company are recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and
expense.
The Group also owns 42.5% of the Pandora joint venture whose operations are in South Africa. The Group equity
accounts for the joint venture as a jointly controlled entity. The functional currency of the Pandora joint venture is the South
African Rand. As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the entity are recognised in the
consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
2009 2008
Group Group
share of share of
net assets Goodwill Total net assets Goodwill Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Net book value at 1 October 157 6 163 125 6 131
Share of profit / (loss) 1 – 1 27 – 27
Distribution of profits (16) – (16) – – –
Capital contributions 5 – 5 – – –
Foreign exchange 6 – 6 5 – 5
Net book value at 30 September 153 6 159 157 6 163
Our share of the associate and joint venture net assets comprises the following:
2009 2008
Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets 142 18 160 137 11 148
Current assets 4 36 40 6 44 50
Current liabilities (5) (9) (14) (1) (12) (13)
Non-current liabilities (27) (6) (33) (25) (3) (28)
Net assets 114 39 153 117 40 157
Amounts recognised by the Group in respect of the associate and joint venture comprised:
2009 2008
Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Share of net assets 114 39 153 117 40 157
Goodwill 6 – 6 6 – 6
120 39 159 123 40 163
Our share of the associate and joint venture profit / (loss) comprises the following:
2009 2008
Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue / income 4 21 25 15 42 57
Expenses including taxation (2) (22) (24) (6) (24) (30)
Profit / (loss) 2 (1) 1 9 18 27
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 114
Notes to the Accounts
14 Non-current financial assets
Available Other
for sale receivables Total
$m $m $m
At 1 October 2008 96 19 115
Movement in fair value 9 3 12
Impairment loss (39) – (39)
Exchange differences 2 3 5
At 30 September 2009 68 25 93
Available Other
for sale receivables Total
$m $m $m
At 1 October 2007 226 22 248
Additions 17 – 17
Disposals (1) – (1)
Movement in fair value (127) 1 (126)
Impairment loss (19) – (19)
Exchange differences – (4) (4)
At 30 September 2008 96 19 115
Available for sale financial assets are held at fair value using the market price where available. Where market price is not
available the Directors’ best estimates of market value are used.
Other receivables at 30 September 2009 represents loans advanced to fellow investors in Incwala Resources (Pty)
Limited. These loans expire in less than two years.
2009 2008
$m $m
Listed investments 55 85
Listed investments include a 5% shareholding in Platmin Limited (2008 – 21%) which was listed on the Alternative Investment
Market on 10 August 2006.
15 Employee benefits
The Group operates defined contribution schemes in the UK and South Africa. The UK defined benefit scheme, the Lonmin
Superannuation Scheme (LSS) was settled in the prior year (see note 3). There were no accrued obligations under defined
contribution plans at 30 September 2009 and 2008.
The total pension cost for the Group was $33 million (2008 – $36 million), $32 million of which related to overseas
schemes (2008 – $34 million).
Liabilities in respect of cash settled share option schemes
The Group runs a number of employee benefit share scheme plans. The balances held on the balance sheet as employee
benefits at the year end were as follows:
2009 2008
$m $m
Liabilities in respect of cash settled share schemes (10) (13)
Social security on share options (1) (8)
(11) (21) 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 115
Notes to the Accounts
16 Inventories
2009 2008
$m $m
Raw materials and consumables 36 36
Work in progress 230 276
Finished goods 5 7
271 319
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $994 million (2008 – $1,041 million).
17 Trade and other receivables
2009 2008
$m $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables 173 249
Other receivables 99 74
Prepayments and accrued income
i
15 3
287 326
Footnote:
i Prepayments include $12m of unamortised bank fees relating to undrawn facilities (2008 – $nil).
18 Assets held for sale
2009 2008
$m $m
At 1 October 6 7
Disposals – (1)
At 30 September 6 6
Assets held for sale represent houses the Group is selling to employees, within twelve months of the balance sheet date, to
encourage home ownership. These assets are held in the Platinum business segment and the South African geographical
region.
19 Trade and other payables
2009 2008
$m $m
Trade payables 170 149
Accruals 42 98
Indirect taxation and social security 3 4
Other payables 122 95
337 346
20 Interest bearing loans and borrowings
2009 2008
$m $m
Short-term loans:
Bank loans – unsecured 58 –
Long-term loans:
Bank loans – unsecured 349 529
407 529
The maturity profile of interest bearing loans and borrowings is disclosed in note 22c.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 116
Notes to the Accounts
21 Derivative financial instruments
2009 2008
Cash flow hedges $m $m
Derivative financial instruments (asset) 1 20
The Group does not undertake trading activity in financial instruments. Forward sales may be undertaken where the Board
determines that it is in the Group’s interests to hedge a proportion of future cash flows as they mitigate exposure to future
price fluctuations. For both 2009 and 2008 such forward sales contracts have only been made to hedge the prices of nickel
and copper by-products and such contracts are typically settled within one year.
22 Financial risk management
For the narrative policies regarding financial risk management refer to the Financial Review on pages 18 to 25.
22a Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was:
2009 2008
$m $m
Non-current assets:
Other receivables 25 19
Current assets:
Trade receivables 173 249
Other receivables 99 74
Derivative financial instruments 1 20
Cash and cash equivalents 282 226
580 588
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic location was:
2009 2008
$m $m
The Americas 2 123
Asia 5 58
Europe 157 28
South Africa 9 40
173 249 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 117
Notes to the Accounts
22 Financial risk management (continued)
22b Credit risk – Trade receivables
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows. No provision has been made for trade receivables
that are past their due date.
2009 2008
Gross Provision Net Gross Provision Net
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Not past due 173 – 173 246 – 246
Past due 0-30 days – – – – – –
Past due 31-60 days – – – – – –
Past due 61-90 days – – – 13 10 3
173 – 173 259 10 249
The movement in the provision in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2009 2008
$m $m
Opening balance at 1 October 10 –
New provision recognised – 10
Provision utilised (5) –
Reversal of previous provision (5) –
Closing balance at 30 September – 10
22c Liquidity risk – Maturity of financial liabilities
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of
netting agreements:
Carrying Contractual < 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 > 5
amount cash flows year years years years
30 September 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 407 (443) (78) (260) (105) –
Trade and other payables 337 (337) (337) – – –
Carrying Contractual < 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 > 5
amount cash flows year years years years
30 September 2008 $m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 529 (577) (17) (286) (274) –
Trade and other payables 346 (346) (346) – – –
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 118
Notes to the Accounts
22 Financial risk management (continued)
22d Currency exposures
Lonmin’s operations are based predominantly in South Africa with the majority of income stream arising in US Dollars.
Cash held in South Africa is mostly in US Dollars and is normally remitted on a regular basis to the UK. When short-term
working capital facilities are required in South Africa these are in US Dollars or South African Rand as appropriate.
The table below shows the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies
other than the functional currency. Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of such assets and liabilities are taken
to the income statement.
2009 2008
SA rand Sterling Other Total SA rand Sterling Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets:
Available for sale
financial assets 12 – 56 68 11 – 85 96
Other receivables 25 – – 25 19 – – 19
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables 104 – – 104 40 2 – 42
Cash and cash equivalents 62 33 – 95 34 – – 34
Tax recoverable 1 – – 1 5 – – 5
Current liabilities:
Trade and other payables (283) (14) – (297) (262) (19) – (281)
Tax payable (10) – – (10) (55) – – (55)
(89) 19 56 (14) (208) (17) 85 (140)
22e Interest rate risk
Based on contracted maturities the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over future years as shown below:
Weighted average
interest rate in 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
% $m $m $m $m
Liabilities
Non-current
Loans
i
5.6 349 195 105 –
Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates
2008
2009 (restated
ii
) 2009 2008
$m $m $m $m
Financial assets
US Dollar 168 299 187 192
SA Rand 142 75 62 34
Sterling – 2 33 –
Other 56 85 – –
366 461 282 226
Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates
2008
2009 (restated
ii
) 2009 2008
$m $m $m $m
Financial liabilities
US Dollar 30 10 300 529
SA Rand 293 317 107 –
Sterling 14 19 – –
337 346 407 529
Footnotes:
i Figures are based on facilities outstanding at the balance sheet date.
ii Prior year figures have been restated to include tax recoverable within financial assets and to correct the allocation of financial assets and
financial liabilities between currencies. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 119
Notes to the Accounts
22 Financial risk management (continued)
22f Fair values
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet,
are as follows:
2009 2008
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
$m $m $m $m
Available for sale financial assets 68 68 96 96
Other non-current receivables 25 25 19 19
Trade and other receivables 272 272 326 326
Cash and cash equivalents 282 282 226 226
Derivative financial instruments 1 1 20 20
Financial assets 648 648 687 687
Trade and other payables (337) (337) (346) (346)
Unsecured bank loans (407) (407) (529) (529)
Financial liabilities (744) (744) (875) (875)
Net financial liabilities (96) (96) (188) (188)
Available for sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments are marked to market.
Other non-current receivables are carried at fair value as described in note 14.
For bank overdraft and cash and cash equivalents the carrying value is equal to fair value.
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables these are typically due within one month and therefore
the carrying amount is fair value.
For unsecured bank loans there is considered to be no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value.
23 Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
Deferred Deferred Net Deferred Deferred Net
tax assets tax liabilities balance tax assets tax liabilities balance
2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Exploration and evaluation assets – (167) (167) – (167) (167)
Property, plant and equipment – (474) (474) – (393) (393)
Provisions 31 – 31 31 – 31
Deferred tax on unrealised gains on
available for sale financial assets – – – – – –
Deferred tax on dividends payable – – – – (12) (12)
Deferred tax on derivatives – – – – (5) (5)
Trading losses 25 – 25 – – –
Share-based payments 6 – 6 6 – 6
62 (641) (579) 37 (577) (540)
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 120
Notes to the Accounts
23 Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) (continued)
Movement in temporary differences during the year
At 1
Recognised in income
At 30
October Exchange Special Recognised September
2008 movements items Underlying in equity 2009
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Exploration and evaluation assets (167) – – – – (167)
Property, plant and equipment (393) (47) – (34) – (474)
Provisions 31 4 – (4) – 31
Deferred tax on unrealised gains
on available for sale financial assets – – (1) – 1 –
Deferred tax on dividends payable (12) – – 12 – –
Cash flow hedges (5) – – – 5 –
Trading losses – – 6 19 – 25
Share-based payments 6 – – – – 6
(540) (43) 5 (7) 6 (579)
At 1
Recognised in income
At 30
October Exchange Special Recognised September
2007 movements items Underlying in equity 2008
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Exploration and evaluation assets (173) – 6 – – (167)
Property, plant and equipment (414) 71 14 (64) – (393)
Provisions 19 (2) (1) 15 – 31
Deferred tax on unrealised gains
on available for sale financial assets (21) – 2 – 19 –
Deferred tax on dividends payable – – – (12) – (12)
Cash flow hedges (2) – – – (3) (5)
Share-based payments 6 – – – – 6
(585) 69 21 (61) 16 (540)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2009 2008
Unrecognised Unrecognised
deferred tax deferred tax
Temporary assets / Temporary assets /
differences (liabilities) differences (liabilities)
$m $m $m $m
Capital losses carried forward 675 189 779 215
Trading and other losses carried forward 175 49 146 41
Unredeemed capital expenditure 196 55 211 59
Share-based payments 41 21 6
Unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries (1,314) (131) (1,418) (142)
(264) 163 (261) 179
The temporary differences above, except for the unremitted profits from overseas subsidiaries, are subject to the local tax rate
in the United Kingdom at 28% (2008 – 28%), South Africa at 28% (2008 – 28%) and Canada at 18% (2008 – 18%). The
unrecognised deferred tax assets generated by the timing difference relating to unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries has
been calculated using the South African secondary tax rate of 10% (2008 – 10%).
At 30 September 2009, the Group had an amount of $113 million (2008 – $126 million) of surplus Advanced Corporation
Tax (ACT) available, subject to certain restrictions, for set-off against future United Kingdom corporation tax liabilities. ‘Shadow
ACT’ amounted to $256 million (2008 – $286 million) and must be set-off prior to the utilisation of surplus ACT.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of the operating losses and the capital losses as management
believe the chances of recovery are low.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted foreign profits when it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the
foreseeable future. Generally retained profits arising in South Africa that have arisen in prior years are retained there in order to
fund capital expenditure requirements. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 121
Notes to the Accounts
24 Provisions
2009 2008
$m $m
At 1 October 50 46
Charge for the year 6 8
Unwinding of discount (note 6) 5 4
Exchange differences 6 (8)
At 30 September 67 50
Provisions represent site rehabilitation liabilities with the cash flows occurring at the end of the life of the mine.
25 Contingent liabilities
2009 2008
$m $m
Third party guarantees
i
5 7
Indemnities
ii
83 74
Preference share capital put options
iii
23 18
Vantage Capital Investments
iv
20 18
Outstanding legal claims – 2
Contingent liabilities 131 119
Footnotes:
i Third party guarantees relate to guarantees provided by the Group in connection with the sale of certain subsidiaries in 1996, 1997 and 1998 for
which amounts have been reasonably estimated but the liabilities are not probable and therefore the Group has not provided for such amounts in
the accounts.
ii Indemnities represent the vendor financing indemnity given by Lonmin following the purchase of the additional 9.11% in Eastern Platinum Limited
(EPL) and Western Platinum Limited (WPL) and the investment in Incwala Resources (Pty) Limited (Incwala). Lonmin agreed to indemnify Impala
Platinum Holdings Limited (Impala) against any non-payment on the relevant due date of any principal amount owing to Impala by any HDSA
(historically disadvantaged South African) investor in relation to loans made by Impala to HDSA investors for their purchase of shares in EPL and
WPL. The total value of the indemnity granted was the US Dollar equivalent of R618 million ($83 million of which $39 million became due after
30 September 2009, $20 million becomes due after 16 December 2009, $16 million becomes due after 30 September 2011 and $8 million
becomes due after 16 December 2011). A counter-indemnity has been given by each HDSA investor which is secured on that HDSA investor’s
shares in Incwala. For events after the balance sheet date see note 35.
iii Various preference share capital put option agreements were entered into by Lonmin with a number of banks who subscribed for preference shares
in HDSAs investing in Incwala. These options, which amount to the US Dollar equivalent of R173 million ($23 million), can be put upon Lonmin by
the banks in the event that the HDSAs default on payment. A counter-indemnity has been given by each HDSA investor which is secured on that
HDSA investor’s shares in Incwala.
iv Vantage Capital Investments:
1) In 2006, pursuant to a reorganisation of the HDSA shareholdings in Incwala, Lonmin Plc granted Standard Chartered Bank Johannesburg
Branch a put option in respect of 96 preference shares in Vantage Capital Investments (Pty) Ltd. During the year ended 30 September 2007
the bank sold 48 of these put options to Thelo Incwala Investments (Pty) Limited (Thelo). The value of the put option granted by Lonmin Plc
outstanding at 30 September 2009 was the US Dollar equivalent of R114 million ($15 million), (2008 – $13 million).
2) The Lonmin Employee Masakane Trust (LEMT) has a 25% shareholding in Thelo. Lonmin Plc has provided a guarantee to Sanlam Capital
Markets Limited, on behalf of LEMT, over their 25% share of the Thelo funding to acquire 48 preference shares in Vantage Capital. The value of
this guarantee at 30 September 2009 was the US Dollar equivalent of R35 million ($5 million), (2008 – $5 million).
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 122
Notes to the Accounts
26 Called up share capital and share premium account
Number $m
Ordinary shares of $1 each:
Authorised – 2009 and 2008 252,735,000 253
Issued and fully paid – 2009 193,054,260 193
Issued and fully paid – 2008 156,383,233 156
Deferred shares of £1 each:
Authorised, issued and fully paid – 2009 and 2008 50,000 –
Issued and Paid up Share
fully paid amount premium
Number $m $m
At 1 October 2008:
Ordinary shares of $1 each 156,383,233 156 305
The issue of shares:
(i) to satisfy the exercise of share options and awards 341,253 1–
(ii) to the Employee Benefit Trust 85,062 ––
(iii) to satisfy the exercise of the International Finance Corporation
option agreement 1,172,583 1 15
(iv) pursuant to the 2 for 9 Rights Issue (note 29) 35,072,129 35 456
At 30 September 2009:
Ordinary shares of $1 each 193,054,260 193 776
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s shares can be found on page 63 of the Directors’ Report – Governance. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 123
Notes to the Accounts
27 Share plans
At 30 September 2009, the following options and awards were outstanding:
Weighted
average Weighted Weighted
exercise average average
price of remaining fair value
Number outstanding contracted of options
of shares options (pence) life (years) granted (£)
Share Plans
Executive Share Option Scheme
Outstanding at 30.09.08 249,736 1,064.51 – –
Granted during the year – – – –
Rights Issue adjustment 10,690 – – –
Exercised during the year 34,337 999.52 – –
Lapsed during the year 26,045 1,040.71 – –
Outstanding at 30.09.09 200,044 1,022.21 3.23 2.07
Exercisable at the end of the year 200,044 – – –
Lonmin Share Option Scheme
Outstanding at 30.09.08 12,834 1,150.00 – –
Granted during the year – – – –
Rights Issue adjustment 611 – ––
Exercised during the year 2,724 1,098.00 – –
Lapsed during the year – – – –
Outstanding at 30.09.09 10,721 1,098.00 2.75 2.07
Exercisable at the end of the year 10,721 – – –
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Outstanding at 30.09.08 19,696 827.30 – –
Granted during the year – – – –
Rights Issue adjustment 846 – ––
Exercised during the year 1,704 723.32 – –
Lapsed during the year 924 1,303.66 – –
Outstanding at 30.09.09 17,914 773.39 0.36 3.18
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – –
Long Term Incentive Plan
Outstanding at 30.09.08 499,972 – – –
Granted during the year 511,668 – – –
Rights Issue adjustment 10,703 – ––
Exercised during the year 178,912 – – –
Lapsed during the year 199,346 – – –
Outstanding at 30.09.09 644,085 – 2.59 19.32
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – –
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
Outstanding at 30.09.08 73,193 – – –
Granted during the year 67,747 – – –
Rights Issue adjustment 4,192 – – –
Exercised during the year 28,937 – – –
Lapsed during the year 28,267 – – –
Outstanding at 30.09.09 87,928 – 1.92 12.33
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – –
Co Investment Plan (Matched Award)
Outstanding at 30.09.08 126,360 – – –
Granted during the year – – – –
Rights Issue adjustment – – – –
Rolled over during the year – – – –
Vested during the year 62,946 – – –
Lapsed during the year 63,414 – – –
Outstanding at 30.09.09 – – – –
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – –
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 124
Notes to the Accounts
27 Share plans (continued)
Weighted
average Weighted Weighted
exercise average average
price of remaining fair value
Number outstanding contracted of options
of shares options (pence) life (years) granted (£)
Stay & Prosper Plan*
Outstanding at 30.09.08 1,241,814 – – –
Granted during the year 663,562 – – –
Rights Issue adjustment 48,038 – – –
Exercised during the year 92,251 – – –
Lapsed during the year 294,589 – – –
Outstanding at 30.09.09 1,566,574 – 2.11 16.74
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – –
Cash Settled Plans
Scarce Skills Retention Plan
Outstanding at 30.09.08 82,000 – – –
Granted during the year – – – –
Rights Issue adjustment 2,825 – – –
Exercised during the year 61,278 – – –
Lapsed during the year 23,547 – – –
Outstanding at 30.09.09 – – – –
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – –
* Awards granted pursuant to the Stay & Prosper Plan may be share settled or cash settled.
Further information about each of the above plans including the performance conditions can be found in the Remuneration
Committee Report in pages 72 to 89.
Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust (the “Trust”)
At 30 September 2009 the Trust held 53,636 shares (beneficially and as bare trustee) (2008 – 103,661 shares). The market
value of these shares at the year end was £897,867. Where not waived, dividends payable on these shares are held by the
Trust on behalf of the participants. Each of the executive Directors are deemed to have a beneficial interest, to the extent
disclosed in the table of Directors’ share interests, and a non-beneficial interest in the balance.
Details of options granted in period
The fair value of both equity-settled and cash-settled options granted in the period have been measured using the weighted
average inputs below and the following valuation models:
LTIP Monte Carlo
DABP Monte Carlo
Stay and Prosper Monte Carlo
2009 2008
Range of share price at date of grant (£) 6.79 – 17.32 23.92 – 34.08
Exercise price (£) – –
Expected option life (years) 3 3
Volatility 60 – 73% 23 – 65%
Dividend yield 4.4% 2.7%
Risk free interest rate 1.1 – 2.4% 2.9 – 3.0%
Volatility was calculated with reference to the Group’s historic share price volatility up to the grant date. The number of years
of historic data used is equal to the term of each option.
The liability in respect of the cash-settled elements of the schemes shown above and reported within non-current
employee benefits at 30 September 2009 is $10 million (2008 – $13 million). 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 125
Notes to the Accounts
28 Total equity
Equity shareholders’ funds
Called Share
up share premium Other Retained Minority Total
capital account reserves
iv
earnings Total interests
v
equity
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2008 156 305 100 1,586 2,147 447 2,594
Total recognised
income and expense – – (11) (269) (280) (41) (321)
Dividends – – – – – (21) (21)
Share-based payments – – – 2 2 – 2
Share capital and share
premium recognised
on Rights Issue
ii
35 477 – – 512 – 512
Rights Issue costs charged
to share premium
ii
– (21) – – (21) – (21)
Exchange gain on shares
to be issued
ii
– – – 4 4 – 4
Reversal of fair value
movements of derivative
liability recognised in respect
of Rights Issue
ii
– – – 36 36 – 36
Shares issued under the
IFC option agreement
iii
1 15 – – 16 – 16
Shares issued on exercise
of share options
i
1 – – – 1 – 1
At 30 September 2009 193 776 89 1,359 2,417 385 2,802
At 1 October 2007 156 299 96 1,417 1,968 392 2,360
Total recognised
income and expense – – 4 348 352 120 472
Dividends – – – (186) (186) (65) (251)
Share-based payments – – – 7 7 – 7
Shares issued on exercise
of share options
i
– 6 – – 6 – 6
At 30 September 2008 156 305 100 1,586 2,147 447 2,594
Footnotes:
i During the year 426,315 share options were exercised (2008 – 231,338) on which $1 million of cash was received (2008 – $6 million).
ii During the year the Group undertook a Rights Issue in which 35,072,129 shares were issued as disclosed in note 29.
iii During the year 1,172,583 shares were issued under the International Finance Corporation agreement. As the shares were issued at a discount to
market value only $15 million of cash was received.
iv Other reserves represent the capital redemption reserve of $88 million (2008 – $88 million) and a $1 million hedging reserve net of deferred tax
(2008 – $12 million).
v Minority interests represent an 18% shareholding in Eastern Platinum Limited, Western Platinum Limited and Messina Limited and a 26%
shareholding in Akanani Mining (Pty) Limited.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 126
Notes to the Accounts
29 Rights Issue
(i) Overview of the Rights Issue offer.
On 11 May 2009, Lonmin announced a fully under-written 2 for 9 Rights Issue of 35.1 million new ordinary shares at
£9.00 per new share for shareholders on the London Stock Exchange and at R113.04 per new share for shareholders
on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. The offer period commenced on 15 May 2009 and closed for acceptance on
4 June 2009.
In the prospectus Lonmin anticipated raising $477 million proceeds in total which, net of expenses of $20 million,
would raise funds of $457 million. The issue was successful with a take-up of more than 96% of the shares on offer. The
Company actually raised net proceeds of $458 million which was in line with the expectations given in the prospectus,
with 97% of the funds raised in the UK.
(ii) Accounting for the Rights Issue.
The Rights Issue proceeds were received over the offer period and were credited to a shares to be issued account at
the prevailing spot exchange rates at the date of receipt resulting in the recognition of a cash inflow of $516 million
before the impact of the hedging arrangements. The retranslation of these advance receipts at the spot rate on closing
resulted in a $4 million exchange loss recognised through finance costs as a special charge. There was a corresponding
gain recognised directly in equity of $4 million for exchange movements on the shares to be issued.
Share capital and share premium of $512 million was recognised on the balance sheet utilising the prevailing spot
exchange rates on the issuance date of 4 June 2009, except for the Xstrata proceeds which were received in Dollars on
2 June 2009 (as explained further below). $21 million of issue costs were also recognised and charged against share
premium and resulted in a cash outflow in the year to give a net increase in share capital and share premium of $491
million.
In order to minimise the risk of the exposure to currency fluctuations on the net Sterling funds expected the Group
undertook two hedging arrangements in synchronisation with the Rights Issue process. The net expected proceeds
were hedged because the bulk of the issue costs were in Sterling.
– Net Sterling amounts expected, with the exception of monies due from Xstrata plc in its capacity as a Lonmin Plc
shareholder, were covered by forward exchange contracts executed over the week prior to the announcement and
due for settlement on 4 June 2009.
– In respect of the Sterling monies due from Xstrata it was agreed that settlement would be made directly in US
Dollars and the amount was set using forward market rates on the date of announcement and for settlement on
2 June 2009.
As the Dollar weakened considerably over the offer period the Sterling proceeds received translated into $516 million
were higher than due under the forward exchange contracts. This therefore resulted in the recognition of foreign
exchange losses under the forward hedging arrangements of $33 million. This $33 million fair value loss cannot be offset
against equity (which it was effectively hedging for economic purposes) as, under IFRS, hedge accounting can only be
applied to cash flows which ultimately affect profit and loss. The $33 million loss on the forward hedges has therefore
been shown as a special charge in finance costs in the income statement (see note 3) and therefore reduces retained
earnings and distributable reserves. The offset is effectively in the recognition of a higher credit to the share premium
account. As noted above the actual net proceeds were in line with the expectations on the announcement of the
Rights Issue.
A summary of the above transactions is as shown below:
$m
Cash proceeds received at spot rates 516
Foreign exchange loss on retranslation of advance cash proceeds (note 3) (4)
Gross increase in share capital and share premium (note 28) 512
Costs of issue charged to share premium (note 28) (21)
Net increase in share capital and share premium 491
Loss on settlement of forward exchange contracts (note 3) (33)
Net proceeds 458 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 127
Notes to the Accounts
29 Rights Issue (continued)
(iii) IAS 32 – Financial Instruments: Presentation as adopted by the EU.
Under IAS 32 – Financial Instruments: Presentation as adopted by the EU, a rights issue can only be classified as an
equity instrument if the contract is settled by exchanging a fixed number of shares for a fixed amount of cash. As
Lonmin is listed on both the LSE and the JSE it has raised equity from the Rights Issue in both Sterling and Rand.
However, as the Company’s functional currency is US Dollar, this has resulted in a variable amount of cash being raised
for accounting purposes via the Rights Issue. Therefore, in applying IAS 32 Lonmin recognised a derivative liability of
$307 million with a corresponding charge to retained earnings on announcement of the Rights Issue.
The fair value of the derivative liability increased by $36 million to the point of exercise with $25 million of this being
due to differences in exchange rates and $11 million due to changes in share price. This loss was charged to finance
costs in the income statement as a special item (see notes 3 and 6). On the exercise of the rights the derivative liability
was extinguished and the cumulative $343 million liability was reversed to retained earnings creating a net gain of $36
million in reserves (see note 28). There was, therefore, no overall impact on retained earnings at the end of financial year
2009 and no net impact on distributable reserves or equity. A summary of the impact is given in the table below.
Retained Derivative Income
earnings liability statement
Debit / (credit) $m $m $m
Initial recognition of liability for offer of rights 307 (307) –
Movements in fair value of rights (note 3, 6) – (36) 36
Exercise of rights (343) 343 –
Transfer to retained earnings 36 – (36)
Effect of Rights Issue on retained earnings Nil
The IASB has recognised that the above accounting treatment was not the intended outcome for equity issues
which raise proceeds which are not in the functional currency. An amendment to IAS 32 was issued in October 2009.
Under IAS 32 as amended, no derivative liability would be recognised in the balance sheet and no fair value movements
on remeasurement would be recognised in the income statement. The amendment to IAS 32 has, however, not yet
been adopted by the EU. Unendorsed standards cannot be applied by companies under the IAS Regulation if they
conflict with extant endorsed standards and therefore IFRS as adopted by the EU has to be applied unless a fair
presentation override under IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements is considered appropriate.
The Directors noted that there were divergent practices in the market in relation to this issue. The Directors decided
that, on balance, whilst under a more principles based approach the Group would account for the transaction entirely as
equity and would not recognise the $36 million loss, a fair presentation override could not be justified. Nevertheless, the
Directors have provided additional disclosures below to ensure the users of the Accounts have full information about the
transaction as recorded and the impact on the Group under the alternative equity treatment as summarised below.
The amendment to IAS 32 is expected to be adopted by the EU before 1 February 2010. Therefore, in the 2010
financial statements the Group may restate the 2009 results in respect of the amendment with the effect being as
follows:
2009 2009
Income Income
statement statement
(as reported) (if restated)
$m $m
Net finance costs (92) (56)
Loss before tax (272) (236)
Loss after tax (323) (287)
Earnings (285) (249)
Loss per share (cents) (163.7) (143.0)
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 128
Notes to the Accounts
30 Related party transactions
The Group’s related party transactions are summarised below:
2009 2008
$m $m
Purchases from joint venture – Pandora 39 99
Amounts due from / (to) joint venture – Pandora 15 (5)
Amounts due from associate – Incwala 2 –
Royalties payable to Bapo tribe
i
– 14
Amounts due to Bapo tribe
i
– 11
Subscription paid to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association
ii
12 12
Amounts due from Historically Disadvantaged South African investors in Incwala 25 19
All related party transactions are priced on an arm’s length basis.
Footnotes:
i The Bapo ba Mogale tribe own the land on which the Eastern Platinum mine is based.
ii The subscription paid by Lonmin is material to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association.
31 Capital commitments
2009 2008
$m $m
Contracted for but not yet provided 47 73
32 Operating and finance leases
The full aggregate lease payments of the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are set out below:
Land and buildings
2009 2008
$m $m
Operating leases which expire:
Within one year 1 1
Between one and five years 1 2
2 3 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 129
Notes to the Accounts
33 Net debt as defined by the Group
Foreign
As at exchange As at
1 October and non cash 30 September
2008 Cash flow movements 2009
$m $m $m $m
Cash and cash equivalents 226 83 (27) 282
Current borrowings – (58) – (58)
Non-current borrowings (529) 180 – (349)
Unamortised bank fees – – 12 12
Net debt as defined by the Group (303) 205 (15) (113)
Foreign
As at exchange As at
1 October and non cash 30 September
2007 Cash flow movements 2008
$m $m $m $m
Cash and cash equivalents 222 2 2 226
Overdrafts (1) 1 – –
221 3 2 226
Current borrowings (237) 237 – –
Non-current borrowings (359) (170) – (529)
Net debt as defined by the Group (375) 70 2 (303)
Net debt as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest
bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees.
34 Principal Group companies
The following companies have been consolidated in the Group accounts and materially contributed to the assets and / or
results of the Group and are classified according to their main activity.
Interest in
ordinary
Country of share capital
Company incorporation % Principal activities
Eastern Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining
Western Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining and refining
Messina Platinum Mines Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining
Akanani Mining (Pty) Ltd South Africa 74.0 Subsidiary Mineral exploration
A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.
35 Events after the balance sheet date
During 2009 Lonmin has been engaged in discussions with the Historically Disadvantaged South African (“HDSA”)
shareholders of Incwala and the HDSAs’ providers of finance regarding the future ownership of Incwala. These discussions
were in progress at the balance sheet date and are continuing.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date Impala Platinum Holdings Limited called on Lonmin with respect to the R294
million ($39 million) indemnity which fell due after 30 September and this amount has been paid. As explained in note 25,
Lonmin has a counter indemnity secured on the HDSAs’ shares in Incwala.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 130
Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet
as at 30 September
2009 2008
Note $m $m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 37 1 1
Investments: 1,434 1,452
Shares in subsidiary undertakings 38 1,406 1,427
Other investments 39 28 25
Fixed assets 1,435 1,453
Current assets
Deferred tax assets 40 5 –
Debtors 41 550 403
Cash at bank and in hand 164 15
Total current assets 719 418
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 42 (698) (721)
Net current assets / (liabilities) 21 (303)
Total assets less current liabilities 1,456 1,150
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 42 (6) (243)
Bank loans and overdrafts – (230)
Other creditors (6) (13)
Net assets 1,450 907
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 43 193 156
Share premium account 43 776 305
Capital redemption reserve 43 88 88
Profit and loss account 43 393 358
Total shareholders’ funds (equity) 43 1,450 907
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 November 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roger Phillimore Chairman
Alan Ferguson Chief Financial Officer 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 131
Notes to the Company Accounts
36 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Lonmin Plc (the Company) balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom
generally accepted accounting practice (UK GAAP) and in accordance with UK company law. The financial information has
been prepared on a historic cost basis as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments. The accounts have
been prepared on a going concern basis, as detailed in note 1 to the Group financial statements. The following principal
accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the
Company’s financial statements.
The Company’s functional currency is the US Dollar. The reporting currency is also the US Dollar.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in Section 408 (4) of the Companies Act 2006 from
presenting its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 1 – Cash Flow Statements and has not prepared a cash
flow statement.
Fixed asset investments
The Company’s investment in Platmin Ltd is measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except
when market value has fallen below original cost, when impairment losses are taken to the income statement. Fair value is
determined by using the market price at the balance sheet date when this is available. For fixed asset investments for which
market price is not available the Directors’ best estimate of market value is used.
Investment in subsidiaries
The Company’s investment in shares in Group companies are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
The principal subsidiaries of the Company are LSA (UK) Limited and AfriOre Limited. LSA (UK) Limited holds the
investments in Western Platinum Limited, Eastern Platinum Limited and Messina Platinum Mines Limited. AfriOre Limited
holds the investment in Akanani (Pty) Limited. For more information see note 34 to the Group financial statements.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are recorded at cost or valuation, which are not updated under the transitional arrangements of FRS 15
– Tangible Fixed Assets, less depreciation. Depreciation on fixed assets is provided on a straight-line basis. Assets are
depreciated over their estimated useful economic lives to residual value. Depreciation rates for the principal assets of the
Company are as follows:
Method Rate
Short-term leasehold property Straight line Over the life of the lease (3 – 5 years)
Fixtures and Fittings Straight line 10% – 33% per annum (3 – 10 years)
Tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
may not be recoverable. When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the
net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant income generating unit or disposal value if higher in
accordance with FRS 11.
Financial instruments
The Company’s principal financial instruments (other than derivatives) comprise bank loans, investments, cash and short-term
deposits.
Bank loans were initially recorded at fair value, and have subsequently been recorded at amortised cost using the effective
interest rate method.
Leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Current tax
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes account of the taxation deferred because of timing
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided for on timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date on a non-
discounted basis. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable
taxable profits from which future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits
For current employees, the Company either makes payments on behalf of employees into a defined contribution scheme
which the Company has set up, or makes direct payments to employees who may then make their own arrangements.
A defined contribution scheme is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into
a separate legal entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to
defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
The Company previously operated a defined benefit scheme which was settled during 2008.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 132
Notes to the Company Accounts
36 Accounting policies (continued)
Share-based payments
From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is
recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become
unconditionally entitled to payment. The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date. Any changes in
the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model
or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award. Market related performance conditions are reflected
in the fair value of the share. Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about
the number of awards expected to vest; the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-
market conditions are met.
Share options and own shares held
In accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 25 – National Insurance Contributions on Share Option Gains (UITF 25),
the Company provides in full for the employer’s national insurance liability estimated to arise on the future exercise of share
options granted.
As required under Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 38 – Accounting for ESOP Trusts (UITF 38), the cost to the
Company of own shares held is shown as a deduction from shareholders’ funds within the profit and loss account.
Consideration paid or received for the purchase or sale of the Company’s own shares in the ESOP trust is shown separately
in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds.
Dividend reinvestment program
Under the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan, shareholders can elect for the whole of their cash dividends to be
reinvested in Lonmin Plc shares which are purchased on their behalf in the market. All cash dividends are paid to the
Registrars who use the dividends of participants in the plan to fund these purchases. Accordingly, no new shares are issued,
dividends are paid and accounted for in the normal way, and there are no special accounting requirements for the
programme.
Foreign currency
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of the Company using the
exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and
liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising
on the retranslation of available for sale financial assets which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
All exploration expenses relate to pre-feasibility work and, in line with Group policy, are expensed as incurred. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 133
Notes to the Company Accounts
37 Tangible fixed assets
Fixtures and
fittings
$m
Cost:
At 1 October 2008 and 30 September 2009 3
Depreciation:
At 1 October 2008 and 30 September 2009 2
Net book value:
At 1 October 2008 and 30 September 2009 1
38 Investments in subsidiary undertakings
$m
Cost:
At 1 October 2008 1,528
Additions –
At 30 September 2009 1,528
Provisions:
At 1 October 2008 101
Increase 21
At 30 September 2009 122
Net book value:
At 30 September 2009 1,406
At 1 October 2008 1,427
$m
Cost:
At 1 October 2007 1,527
Additions 1
At 30 September 2008 1,528
Provisions:
At 1 October 2007 89
Increase 12
At 30 September 2008 101
Net book value:
At 30 September 2008 1,427
At 1 October 2007 1,438
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 134
Notes to the Company Accounts
39 Fixed asset investments
Investments Loans receivable Total
$m $m $m
At 1 October 2008 6 19 25
Movement in fair value 2 3 5
Impairment (5) – (5)
Exchange gain – 3 3
At 30 September 2009 3 25 28
Investments Loans receivable Total
$m $m $m
At 1 October 2007 7 22 29
Additions 17 – 17
Movement in fair value (5) 1 (4)
Impairment (13) – (13)
Exchange loss – (4) (4)
At 30 September 2008 6 19 25
2009 2008
$m $m
Listed investments 3 6
The listed investment is in Platmin Limited which was listed on the Alternative Investment Market on 10 August 2006.
40 Deferred tax assets
2009 2008
$m $m
Amounts falling due after one year:
Deferred tax assets 5 –
5 –
41 Debtors
2009 2008
$m $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary companies 536 397
Tax recoverable 1 1
Other debtors – 4
Prepayments and accrued income 13 1
550 403
Prepayments include $12 million of unamortised bank fees relating to undrawn facilities (2008 – $nil).
42 Creditors
2009 2008
$m $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts due to subsidiary companies 678 697
Other creditors 4 5
Accruals and deferred income 16 19
698 721 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 135
Notes to the Company Accounts
42 Creditors (continued)
2009 2008
$m $m
Unsecured bank loans falling due within 1 to 2 years – 230
Other creditors falling due after more than one year 6 13
6 243
Details of the loans are shown in note 20 to the Group accounts.
43 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
Called up Share Capital
share premium redemption Profit and
capital account reserve loss account Total
$m $m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2008 156 305 88 358 907
Loss for the financial year – – – (9) (9)
Change in fair value of available for sale
financial assets – – – 2 2
Share-based payments ––– 2 2
Share capital and share premium recognised
on Rights Issue
ii
35 477 – – 512
Rights Issue costs charged to share premium
ii
– (21) – – (21)
Exchange gain on shares to be issued
ii
– – – 4 4
Reversal of fair value movements on derivative liability
recognised in respect of Rights Issue
ii
– – – 36 36
Shares issued under the IFC option agreement
iii
1 15 – – 16
Shares issued on exercise of share options
i
1 – – – 1
At 30 September 2009 193 776 88 393 1,450
Called up Share Capital
share premium redemption Profit and
capital account reserve loss account Total
$m $m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2007 156 299 88 275 818
Profit for the financial year – – – 267 267
Change in fair value of available for sale financial assets – – – (5) (5)
Dividends – – – (186) (186)
Share-based payments – – – 7 7
Shares issued on exercise of share options
i
– 6 – – 6
At 30 September 2008 156 305 88 358 907
Footnotes:
i During the year 426,315 share options were exercised (2008 – 231,338) on which $1 million of cash was received (2008 – $6 million).
ii During the year the Company undertook a Rights Issue which resulted in the issuance of 35,072,129 shares. Under UK GAAP this followed the
accounting treatment prescribed by FRS25 – Financial Instruments: Presentation which corresponds to the accounting treatment under IAS 32 as
adopted by the EU in the Group Accounts. Further details can therefore be found in note 29 of the Group Accounts. Subsequent to the balance
sheet signing date the Accounting Standards Board issued an Exposure Draft which mirrors the Amendment to IAS 32 referred to in note 29 of the
Group Accounts. If this amendment is made to UK GAAP there will be no restatement of the Company results as there is no impact on the balance
sheet position of the Company and the Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 408 (4) of the Companies Act 2006 not to
present its own profit and loss account.
iii During the year 1,172,583 share options were exercised under the International Finance Corporation agreement. As the shares were issued at a
discount only $15 million of cash was received.
The audit fee in respect of the parent company was $0.2 million (2008 – $0.3 million). Further details can be found in note 4
to the Group accounts.
The loss of the Company for the 2009 financial year amounted to $9 million (2008 – profit of $267 million).
Further details of called up share capital and share premium can be found in note 26 to the Group accounts.
Details of shares held in the employee share ownership plan (ESOP) can be found in note 27 to the Group accounts.
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 136
Notes to the Company Accounts
44 Other information
Employees
The average number of employees of the Company during the year was 31 (2008 – 39). Total staff costs, excluding charges
for share options, were $11 million (2008 – $19 million).
The staff costs are made up of wages and salaries $7 million (2008 – $12 million), social security costs $1 million (2008 –
$2 million), pension payments $1 million (2008 – $2 million), and termination payments $2 million (2008 – $3 million).
Total directors’ emoluments were $6 million (2008 – $13 million). These emoluments were paid for their services on behalf
of Lonmin Plc Group. No emoluments related specifically to their work in the Company. For further details, see the
Remuneration Committee Report on pages 72 to 89.
Pensions
For details of the Company’s pension scheme, refer to note 15 of the Group accounts.
Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8 – Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose related party
transactions between subsidiary companies. The Group’s related party transactions are disclosed in note 30 to the Group
accounts.
The Company also has a related party relationship with its directors and key management as disclosed in the
Remuneration Committee report.
Dividends
No dividends were paid in the year as stated in note 9 to the Group accounts.
Share-based payments
For details of the Company’s share plan and share option schemes, refer to note 27 to the Group accounts.
Deferred tax asset
The Company had a deferred tax asset of $5m (2008 – $nil) relating to the South Africa branch, from which management
believes that there will be sufficient future taxable profits to justify carrying the asset.
Unrecognised tax balances
The Company had an unrecognised deferred tax asset of $68 million at 30 September 2009 based on timing differences of
$243 million (2008 – $82 million based on timing differences of $293 million). No unrecognised deferred tax assets have been
disclosed in respect of United Kingdom operations, as management believe the chances of utilising future United Kingdom
taxable profits are low.
The Company had $67 million of unrecognised surplus ACT at 30 September 2009 (2008 – $74 million). The Company
had $256 million of unrecognised shadow ACT at 30 September 2009 (2008 – $286 million).
Contingent liabilities
Details of the contingent liabilities of the parent company are included in note 25 to the Group accounts.
Events after the balance sheet date
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Company paid R294 million ($39 million) under indemnity to Impala Platinum
Holdings Limited (see note 25 to the Group accounts), as further discussed in note 35 to the Group accounts. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 137
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Consolidated Group Five Year Financial Record
for the year ended 30 September
Continuing operations
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS UKGAAP
i
$m $m $m $m $m
Income statement:
Revenue 1,062 2,231 1,941 1,855 1,128
Operating profit (excluding associate and joint venture) (142) 764 794 842 350
Underlying operating profit (excluding associate
and joint venture) (93) 963 796 830 362
Profit before taxation (272) 779 705 633 319
Underlying profit before taxation (111) 997 811 827 339
Attributable profit for the year (285) 455 314 313 158
Underlying attributable profit for the year (103) 550 453 445 168
Basic earnings per share (cents)
ii
(163.7) 277.8 195.7 209.5 106.4
Underlying earnings per share (cents)
ii
(59.2) 335.8 282.4 297.8 113.1
Balance sheet:
Non-current assets – property, plant and equipment 2,036 1,893 1,673 1,463 1,339
Non-current assets – other 1,329 1,340 1,501 677 559
Net current assets 443 501 200 279 40
Net debt (113) (303) (375) (458) (585)
Equity shareholders' funds 2,417 2,147 1,968 1,089 838
Equity shareholders' funds per share (cents)
ii
1,252 1,310 1,226 729 564
Cost of dividend paid – 186 171 124 102
Dividends per share paid (cents)
ii
– 113.6 105.0 83.0 68.7
Dividend for the year per share (cents)
ii
– 56.3 109.7 95.4 68.7
Cashflow:
Cash flow from operating activities (trading cash flow) (16) 706 692 506 279
Free cash flow (271) 264 380 290 56
Trading cash flow per share (cents)
ii
(9.2) 431.0 431.3 338.7 182.5
Free cash flow per share (cents)
ii
(155.6) 161.2 236.8 194.1 37.7
Footnotes:
i The balance sheet as at 30 September 2005 has been restated following the finalisation of fair values arising on the acquisition of Southern Platinum
Corporation.
ii During the year the Group undertook a Rights Issue. As a result all amounts per share have been adjusted retrospectively by applying a factor of 1.048
in order to adjust for the bonus element of the Rights Issue. 138
Operating Statistics
5 year review
Units 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Tonnes mined Marikana Underground – conventional 000 8,472 9,076 10,574 10,883 10,241
Underground – M&A
1
000 1,710 1,150 638 601 680
Underground – total 000 10,182 10,226 11,212 11,484 10,921
Opencast 000 234 1,300 1,597 1,583 2,653
Limpopo Underground 000 87 523 757 857 212
Opencast 000 – – – 14 –
Pandora attributable
2
Underground 000 142 124 128 100 54
Opencast 000 156 275 286 176 –
Lonmin Platinum Underground 000 10,411 10,875 12,096 12,441 11,187
Opencast 000 389 1,575 1,883 1,772 2,653
Total 000 10,801 12,449 13,979 14,213 13,840
% tonnes mined
from UG2 reef % 77.7 73.1 72.0 71.2 74.3
Tonnes milled
3
Marikana Underground 000 10,148 10,206 11,216 11,502 10,975
Opencast 000 622 1,163 1,469 1,854 2,444
Limpopo Underground 000 92 534 781 887 214
Opencast 000 – – – 14 –
Pandora
4
Underground 000 335 293 301 236 127
Opencast 000 430 595 649 394 –
Ore Purchases
5
Underground 000 – – 75 14 –
Opencast 000 – 30 20 18 –
Lonmin Platinum Underground 000 10,576 11,033 12,373 12,639 11,316
Opencast 000 1,053 1,788 2,138 2,280 2,444
Total 000 11,628 12,821 14,511 14,919 13,760
Milled head grade Marikana Underground g/t 4.57 4.71 4.98 5.00 4.98
Opencast g/t 2.63 3.06 4.11 4.25 4.88
Limpopo Underground g/t 3.66 3.47 3.50 4.09 3.84
Opencast g/t – – – 3.29 –
Pandora Underground g/t 4.84 5.11 4.88 5.05 4.54
Opencast g/t 5.23 5.04 5.33 4.92 –
Ore Purchases Underground g/t – – 3.92 3.92 –
Opencast g/t – 2.90 5.16 4.14 –
Lonmin Platinum Underground g/t 4.57 4.66 4.88 4.94 4.95
Opencast g/t 3.70 3.70 4.39 4.36 4.88
Total g/t 4.50 4.52 4.80 4.85 4.94
Metals in Lonmin Platinum Platinum oz 663,101 732,125 869,832 964,958 908,972
concentrate
6
Palladium oz 308,758 342,081 404,535 447,894 397,546
Gold oz 15,013 18,932 25,030 31,973 22,269
Rhodium oz 91,920 99,173 114,601 125,379 115,436
Ruthenium oz 140,106 152,772 182,326 198,491 187,967
Iridium oz 30,315 31,562 41,157 41,284 38,465
Total PGMs oz 1,249,214 1,376,645 1,637,481 1,809,979 1,670,655
Nickel
7
MT 2,794 3,549 4,636 5,120 4,042
Copper
7
MT 1,763 2,216 2,814 3,104 2,498
Metallurgical Lonmin refined Platinum oz 655,291 699,942 695,842 799,070 796,082
production metal production Palladium oz 297,415 330,209 318,758 369,859 348,681
Gold oz 18,277 20,257 20,485 20,955 17,059
Rhodium oz 95,596 91,063 88,469 115,453 87,632
Ruthenium oz 146,506 158,424 135,873 174,639 172,610
Iridium oz 23,908 31,599 30,430 40,836 25,110
Total PGMs oz 1,236,992 1,331,493 1,289,857 1,520,812 1,447,174
Toll refined Platinum oz 2,025 – 93,609 – 46,354
metal production Palladium oz 941 – 43,274 – 21,115
Gold oz 58 – – – 731
Rhodium oz 1,532 – 12,966 – 7,133
Ruthenium oz 2,647 – 20,439 – 11,524
Iridium oz 513 – 4,090 – 2,263
Total PGMs oz 7,717 – 174,378 – 89,120
Total refined PGMs Platinum oz 657,317 699,942 789,451 799,070 842,436
Palladium oz 298,356 330,209 362,032 369,859 369,796
Gold oz 18,335 20,257 20,485 20,955 17,790
Rhodium oz 97,128 91,063 101,435 115,453 94,765
Ruthenium oz 149,153 158,424 156,312 174,639 184,134
Iridium oz 24,420 31,599 34,520 40,836 27,373
Total PGMs oz 1,244,709 1,331,493 1,464,235 1,520,812 1,536,294
Base metals Nickel
8
MT 3,244 3,483 4,522 4,342 4,187
Copper
8
MT 1,988 2,009 2,466 2,452 2,547
Capital Rm 2,106 2,816 1,923 1,207 1,180
expenditure
9
$m 234 378 276 182 190 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 139
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Operating Statistics
Units 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Sales Refined metal sales Platinum oz 659,703 706,492 786,552 803,471 838,859
Palladium oz 305,332 329,460 362,077 373,303 364,080
Gold oz 18,910 20,151 24,449 22,133 18,122
Rhodium oz 94,160 93,337 102,916 116,281 93,453
Ruthenium oz 146,009 158,477 162,853 179,557 183,372
Iridium oz 23,522 32,140 37,858 38,092 26,676
Total PGMs oz 1,247,636 1,340,057 1,476,705 1,532,837 1,524,562
Concentrate Platinum oz 23,253 20,425 7,032 136,183 71,396
and other
10
Palladium oz (2,848) 11,888 3,232 61,110 37,003
Gold oz 13 117 201 4,641 2,362
Rhodium oz 175 889 1,008 15,965 21,552
Ruthenium oz 303 26,205 1,942 26,137 20,517
Iridium oz 387 1,789 64 5,291 2,548
Total PGMs oz 21,282 61,313 13,479 249,327 155,377
Lonmin Platinum Platinum oz 682,955 726,918 793,584 939,654 910,255
Palladium oz 302,485 341,348 365,309 434,413 401,083
Gold oz 18,922 20,268 24,650 26,774 20,484
Rhodium oz 94,335 94,227 103,924 132,246 115,005
Ruthenium oz 146,312 184,682 164,795 205,694 203,889
Iridium oz 23,909 33,929 37,922 43,384 29,224
Total PGMs oz 1,268,918 1,401,371 1,490,184 1,782,164 1,679,939
Nickel MT 3,318 3,338 5,308 4,604 3,892
Copper MT 2,045 1,978 2,474 2,974 2,481
Average prices Platinum $/oz 1,086 1,655 1,213 1,091 852
Palladium $/oz 224 372 339 300 185
Gold $/oz 912 867 647 571 425
Rhodium $/oz 1,571 7,614 5,757 3,971 1,684
Ruthenium $/oz 97 340 404 134 66
Iridium $/oz 388 414 402 233 153
Basket price of PGMs $/oz 786 1,529 1,196 972 668
Nickel $/MT 15,006 22,556 26,461 17,975 12,527
Copper $/MT 6,291 7,212 6,971 7,882 3,168
Cost per PGM ounce sold
11
Group:
Mining – Marikana R/oz 4,468 3,880 2,306 1,700 1,606
Mining – Limpopo R/oz 7,404 6,363 4,463 3,740 3,587
Mining (weighted average) R/oz 4,490 3,979 2,430 1,827 1,636
Concentrating – Marikana R/oz 808 724 470 330 283
Concentrating – Limpopo R/oz 1,820 1,743 1,506 847 814
Concentrating (weighted average) R/oz 815 761 526 361 291
Process division R/oz 693 686 600 406 269
Shared business services R/oz 632 845 612 463 345
C1 cost per PGM ounce produced R/oz 6,630 6,271 4,168 3,057 2,541
Stock movement R/oz 112 (863) 28 (9) 14
C1 cost per PGM ounce sold before base metal credits R/oz 6,742 5,408 4,196 3,048 2,555
Base metal credits R/oz (440) (482) (762) (400) (242)
C1 cost per PGM ounce sold after base metal credits R/oz 6,302 4,926 3,434 2,648 2,313
Amortisation R/oz 516 420 360 272 252
Other EBIT items R/oz – – – – (28)
C2 costs per PGM ounce sold R/oz 6,818 5,346 3,794 2,920 2,537
Pandora mining cost:
C1 Pandora mining cost (in joint venture) R/oz 3,371 3,223 2,453 1,795 N/C
Pandora JV cost / ounce to Lonmin (adjusting Lonmin share of profit) R/oz 5,956 6,200 4,225 3,110 N/C
Exchange rates
Average rate for period R/$ 9.00 7.45 7.14 6.63 6.28
£/$ 0.64 0.51 0.51 0.55 0.54
Closing rate R/$ 7.47 8.27 6.83 7.77 6.36
£/$ 0.62 0.56 0.50 0.53 0.57
Footnotes:
1 M&A comprises ore produced by our fully mechanised shafts and from Saffy shaft, which is being transitioned to hybrid mining.
2 Pandora attributable tonnes mined includes Lonmin’s share (42.5%) of the total tonnes mined on the Pandora joint venture.
3 Tonnes milled excludes slag milling.
4 Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore produced by the Pandora joint venture for onward processing which is included in downstream operating statistics.
5 Relates to the tonnes milled and derived metal in concentrate from third-party ore purchases.
6 Metals in concentrate includes slag and has been calculated using industry standard downstream processing losses.
7 Corresponds to contained base metals in concentrate.
8 Nickel is produced and sold as nickel sulphate crystals or solution and the volumes shown correspond to contained metal. Copper is produced as
refined product but typically at LME grade C.
9 Capital expenditure is the aggregate of the purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets as shown in the consolidated cash flow statement.
10 Concentrate and other sales have been adjusted to a saleable ounces basis using standard industry recovery rates. During the fourth quarter of 2008
financial year, 25,000 oz of refined Ruthenium and 1,500 oz of refined Iridium were bought and sold to meet contractual commitments. The metallurgy
section of the above table excludes these transactions as they relate to third-party mined and processed metals but they are included in the sales section.
11 It should be noted that with the restructuring of the business in 2009 the cost allocation between business units has been changed and, therefore, whilst
the total is on a like-for-like basis, individual line items are not totally comparable.
N/C Not calculated 140
Shareholder Information
Lonmin’s shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg
stock exchanges and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are
also traded in an over-the-counter market in the USA.
UK share register information
All holdings of the Company’s shares are maintained on the
Company’s UK share register, with the exception of those held
on the South African branch register. The register is administered
by Equiniti Registrars (formerly known as Lloyds TSB Registrars).
You can access information about your shareholding
including balance movements and dividend payments on
Shareview, an electronic communications service provided by
Equiniti. It also allows you to change your registered address
details, set up a dividend mandate, vote at general meetings
and register to receive Company communications
electronically.
To register for this free service, visit www.shareview.co.uk
and follow the simple instructions. You will need your
shareholder reference number, which can be found on your
share certificate, dividend tax voucher or proxy card.
South African branch register information
The South African branch register is administered by Link
Market Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd.
Contact details for both the UK and South African
registrars can be found in Corporate Information on the
next page.
Dividends
As noted in the Chairman’s Statement on page 5, the Board
does not recommend the payment of a final dividend.
American Depository Receipts (ADRs)
The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for
which The Bank of New York Mellon acts as the depository.
Each ADR represents one ordinary share of the Company.
The ADRs trade in the over-the-counter (OTC) market under
the symbol LOMNY. When dividends are paid to shareholders,
the depository makes the equivalent payment in US Dollars
to ADR holders.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on
page 141.
Further information for UK-domiciled shareholders
Capital Gains Tax
For Capital Gains Tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares
in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May 1998,
who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base
cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two
companies. Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998
of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would
be 80.498% for Lonmin Plc and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
The Company’s capital reduction was completed on
22 February 2002. For the purposes of assessing any liability
to capital gains tax, UK shareholders should apportion 13.33%
of the base cost of their original shareholding to the capital
reduction and the balance to their new holding of ordinary
shares of $1 each.
The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March
1982 was 38.9 pence (as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation
issues), 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the
Company’s shares on 24 April 1998, 125.3 pence as adjusted
for the de-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998 and
266.1 pence as adjusted for shareholders who took up their
full entitlement of ordinary shares in the Rights Issue in June
2009. Shareholders who did not take up their full entitlement in
the Rights Issue but who instead sold some or all of their
rights may be required to adjust their base cost in their Lonmin
plc ordinary shares and should seek independent tax advice
as to their liability for capital gains tax in the event they sell
their Lonmin plc ordinary shares.
Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Account (ISAs)
Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited offers
the Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA for the investment
of Lonmin Plc shares.
UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin
Corporate ISA up to a maximum currently of £7,200 in cash
or by direct transfer of eligible employee shares within 90 days
of the release from a Sharesave Scheme. However, from
6 October 2009, investors aged 50 or over on or before
5 April 2010 may invest up to £10,200 in the current tax year.
From 6 April 2010, the new allowance of £10,200 will apply
to all investors.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information
on the following page. Rensburg Sheppards Investment
Management Limited is regulated by the FSA. This is not a
recommendation that shareholders should subscribe to the
ISA. The advantages of holding shares in an ISA vary
according to individual circumstances and shareholders who
are in any doubt should consult their financial adviser.
ShareGift
Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity
share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh
Foundation (registered charity number 1052686). Those
shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the
value of which make them uneconomic to sell, can donate
the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the
proceeds to a wide range of charities. Further information
about ShareGift can be obtained from their website at
www.ShareGift.org and a ShareGift transfer form can be
downloaded from the Company’s website.
Warning to shareholders
A survey by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) has
reported that an increasing number of shareholders of UK
listed companies are being targeted by individuals
purporting to be legitimate brokers or financial advisors.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any
unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or
offers of free reports on the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
• Make sure you get the correct name of the person and
organisation and make a record of any other information
they give you, e.g. telephone number, address, etc.
• Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA
before getting involved. You can check at
www.fsa.gov.uk/register.
• The FSA also maintains on its website a list of
unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have
targeted, UK investors and any approach from such
organisations should be reported to the FSA so that
this list can be kept up to date and any other
appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with any unauthorised firm, you
would not be eligible to receive payment under
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can, preferably, be contacted by
completing an on-line form at www.fsa.gov.uk/
pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/overseas.shtml
or, if you do not have access to the internet,
on 0845 606 1234.
• Inform the registrars on the relevant telephone numbers
listed on the following page. They are not able to
investigate such incidents themselves but will record
the details and pass them on to the FSA. 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 141
Corporate Information
Company Secretary
Rob Bellhouse BSc FCIS
Registered Office
Lonmin Plc
4 Grosvenor Place
London
SW1X 7YL
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7201 6000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7201 6100
E-mail: contact@lonmin.com
Website: www.lonmin.com
Registered in England and Wales
Company number 103002
Investor Relations
Rob Gurner
Head of Investor Relations
External Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
8 Salisbury Square
London
EC4Y 8BB
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7311 8317
Fax: +44 (0)20 7311 8257
Stockbrokers
United Kingdom:
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
20 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6DA
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7588 2828
Fax: +44 (0)20 7155 9000
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5LB
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7986 4000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7986 2266
South Africa:
JPMorgan Equities Limited
1 Fricker Road
Illovo
Johannesburg 2196
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)11 507 0430
Fax: +27 (0)11 507 0503
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
UK Callers:
Tel: +44 (0)871 384 2052
Fax: +44 (0)871 384 2100
International Callers:
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7047
Fax: +44 (0)1903 833371
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
Link Market Services South Africa
(Pty) Ltd
Postal address:
PO Box 4844
Johannesburg 2000
South Africa
Physical address:
16th Floor
11 Diagonal Street
Johannesburg 2001
Tel: +27 (0)11 630 0800
Fax: +27 (0)860 674 4381
Website: www.linkmarketservices.co.za
ADR Depository
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
PO Box 358516
Pittsburgh
PA 15252-8516
US Callers:
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 (toll free)
International Callers:
Tel: +1 201 680 6825
E-mail: shrrelations@bnymellon.com
ISA Provider
Rensburg Sheppards Investment
Management Limited
Corporate ISA Department
The Plaza
100 Old Hall Street
Liverpool
L3 9AB
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)151 237 2160
Fax: +44 (0)151 255 1742
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 142
Financial Calendar for 2010
January AGM and Q1 Production Report
May Interim Results including Q2 / H1 Production Report
July Q3 Production Report
November Final Results including Q4 / Full year Production Report
Please note that the Production Reports for Q1 and Q3 incorporate the Company’s Interim Management Statements
for the respective half-year Lonmin Charter
Our Mission
To grow and build our
portfolio of high quality assets.
To deliver the requirements
of the South African broad-
based socio-economic Mining
Charter and we welcome the
opportunity to transform our
business.
To build a value-based
culture, which is founded
on safe work, continuous
improvement, common
standards and procedures,
community involvement and
one that rewards employees
for high performance.
We are successful
when
Our employees live and work
safely and experience the
personal satisfaction that
comes with high performance
and recognition.
Our shareholders are realising
a superior total return on their
investment and support our
corporate sustainability values.
The communities in which we
operate value our relationships.
We are meeting our
commitments to all business
partners and our suppliers,
contractors, partners and
customers support our
Charter.
Our Values
Zero Harm
We are committed to zero
harm to people and the
environment.
Integrity, Honesty & Trust
We are committed ethical
people who do what we say
we will do.
Transparency
Open, honest communication
and free sharing of information.
Respect For Each Other
Embracing our diversity
enriched by openness,
sharing, trust, teamwork
and involvement.
High Performance
Stretching our individual and
team capabilities to achieve
innovative and superior
outcomes.
Employee Self-Worth
To enhance the quality of life
for our employees and their
families and promote self
esteem.
We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals. We create value by
the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals.
We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct
business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
May 2009
Ian Farmer
Chief Executive
2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 143 The paper used in this report is made from 50% FSC recycled fibre, 20% virgin ECF (Elemental Chlorine
Free) pulp and 30% mill broke. The mill generates a proportion of its renewable power from water
turbines. It is fully recyclable and is manufactured within an ISO 14001 certified mill in the UK.
This has been printed using an alcohol free process and the printing inks are made from vegetable oil
and are non-hazardous from renewable sources. Over 90% of solvents and developers are recycled for
further use and recycling initiatives are in place for all other waste associated with this production. The
printers are FSC and ISO 14001 certified with strict procedures in place to safeguard the environment
through all their processes and are working on initiatives to reduce their Carbon Footprint.
Designed and produced by MAGEE
www.magee.co.uk
Photography by Roger Bull and Mike Ellis
Printed by CTD  www.lonmin.com
Annual Report and Accounts
For the year ended 30 September 2009
Lonmin Plc
Registered in England, Company Number 103002
Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
Lonmin Plc
Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009
Preparing
for recovery…
