 www.lonmin.com Annual Report and Accounts
For the year ended 30 September 2010
Lonmin Plc
Registered in England, Company Number 103002
Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
Lonmin Plc
Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2010
Delivering today
Anticipating tomorrow CONTENTS
Directors’ Report – Business Review
01 Lonmin at a Glance
02 2010 Features
04 Chairman’s Letter
07 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Operational Review
18 Reserves & Resources
20 Financial Review
28 Internal Controls and Risk Management
34 2010 Key Performance Indicators
36 Sustainable Development Review
56 Board of Directors
58 Executive Committee
Directors’ Report – Governance
59 Directors’ Report – Governance
78 Remuneration Committee Report
96 Independent Auditors’ Report
97 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts
Responsibility Statement of the Directors 
in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts
Financial Statements
98 Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
99 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
100 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
102 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
103 Notes to the Accounts
138 Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet
139 Notes to the Company Accounts
145 Consolidated Group Five Year Financial Record
Operating Statistics
146 Operating Statistics
Shareholder Information
149 Shareholder Information
151 Corporate Information
152 Financial Calendar for 2011
153 Lonmin Charter 01 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
LONMIN IS THE WORLD’S THIRD LARGEST PRIMARY
PRODUCER OF PLATINUM
LONMIN AT A GLANCE
• World’s 3
rd
largest primary producer of Platinum and one of only
three mine-to-market Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) producers
• Marikana – key operating asset with 12 shafts and inclines,
supported by concentrating, smelting and refining capability
• Total attributable resources of 181 million PGM ounces, including
total attributable reserves of 46 million PGM ounces
• Around 24,000 full time employees as at 30 September 2010 
• Listed on the London and Johannesburg Stock Exchanges 02
2010 FEATURES
2010 SAW US DELIVER ON THE PROGRAMME OF RESTORING 
THE OPERATIONAL HEALTH OF OUR BUSINESS THAT WE STARTED
TWO YEARS AGO. WE ARE NOW WELL POSITIONED TO DELIVER
FUTURE GROWTH.
• Platinum sales of 706,000 ounces, PGM sales of 1,325,000 ounces
• Metal in concentrate production of 694,000 ounces of Platinum and 1,316,000 ounces
of total PGMs
• Revenue of $1.6 billion
• Underlying Earnings Before Interest and Tax of $228 million
• Underlying Earnings Per Share of 70.2 cents
• Dividend payment recommenced
• Available ore reserves up 32% to 2.7 million square metres
• Improved Concentrator recoveries to 85%
• Safety performance improved again
• Successfully raised £160 million to facilitate the funding of Shanduka’s acquisition 
of a 50.03% stake in Incwala, our BEE partner
0
06 07 08 09 10
1,000
800
400
200
600
940
794
727
683
706
Ounces (000’s)
Financial year
Platinum sales
-200
0
1,000
800
400
200
600
830
796
963
-93
228
US$m
06 07 08 09 10
Financial year
Underlying EBIT
i
i Underlying EBIT is calculated on profit for the period excluding special items, as noted on page 98 of this Report. 03
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
ANTICIPATING TOMORROW
WE INTEND TO BUILD ON THE STRONG
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE OF 2010.
Management actions taken in 2010:
• Completed the restoration of Lonmin’s operational health
• Delivered organic growth, but more to do
• Maintained a balance between investing for the future and the need to maintain a strong
balance sheet
• Contained our costs – cost per PGM ounce up only 2%
Key focus areas in 2011 and beyond:
• Maintain our focus on safety as we continue our journey to zero harm
• Improve the efficiency of our mining methods to ensure improved productivity
• Ensure the delivery of sufficient smelting capacity
• Deliver on the capital projects that will secure future growth
• Achieve sales target of 850,000 Platinum ounces by 2013
0
06 07 08 09 10
3.0
2.4
1.2
0.6
1.8
2.5
2.0
1.7
2.0
2.7
Centares (000,000’s)
Financial year
Ore reserves
ii
0
06 07 08 09 10
15
12
6
3
9
12.50
10.80
6.27 6.21
5.87
Per million hours worked
Financial year
LTIFR
iii
ii In 2009 we changed our reporting methodology for ore reserve development, in line with industry best practice,
to exclude partially developed ore reserves. We have reported on this basis since then.
iii Lost time injury frequency rate, as measured per million hours worked, is a key safety performance indicator. 04
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
Dear Shareholders
Overview of the year
I am delighted to report that our business performed 
well in 2010. The Company met its production and 
sales forecasts, returned to profitability and reinstated 
the payment of dividends. While our mining and
concentrating activities performed extremely well,
problems encountered with the Number One furnace
were again disappointing and contributed to higher than
expected costs and significant working capital
movements with negative cash flow implications. 
We operate in a challenging inflationary environment in
South Africa compounded by a further strengthening of
the Rand against the US Dollar. The negative effects on our
margins, however, have been outweighed by higher dollar
Platinum Group Metal (PGM) prices throughout the year.
The PGM market fundamentals have effectively
remained in balance during the year although with a
modestly stronger underpinning. Recovery has been slow
but steady in the automotive market supported by
continuing strong investment demand through Exchange
Traded Funds (ETF) and relatively steady platinum
jewellery demand. Jewellery demand is historically more
price elastic but is increasingly driven by demand in China,
much boosted by the rapidly expanding middle class.
Supply side growth has remained limited given both the
constraints on capital and the pressure on margins that
the industry has experienced over the last two years.
We have met our key operational targets and this
performance reflects the progressive turnaround in our
business:
• Safety: Performance continues to improve, but there
is much still to be achieved;
• Higher output from underground operations: Metal-in-
concentrate is up from 2009’s level of 618,000 to
691,000 Platinum ounces due to an increase in
tonnes mined, grade improvements and much
improved recoveries in the concentrators – up from
81.0% to 84.8%;
• Ore reserve development: A significant increase – up
32% to 2.7 million centares;
• Platinum sales: Sales were 6,000 ounces above our
market guidance of 700,000 Platinum sales ounces;
• Costs: Rand gross operating costs were impacted by
the unexpected toll refining charges and furnace
rebuild costs, and the inflationary environment we
work in. Despite this our unit costs only increased by
2%, a pleasing result; and
• Capital Expenditure: Guidance of investing up to 
$270 million was achieved with significant spend being
allocated to development at K4, Saffy and Hossy.
The Number One furnace however experienced fresh
difficulties again this year, with a matte run out at the end
of the first half which was exacerbated by a further run out
on restart. Considerable attention is being given to
reconfiguring the furnace in its current rebuild and to
managing the inherent risk of having a single furnace to
meet all our current production needs. Earlier this year, we
announced that we would build additional smelting
capacity and this is intended to reduce significantly, if not
eliminate, this risk. In the meantime we were able to meet
our customer needs by using our pyromet furnaces and
by toll refining some concentrate.
Ian Farmer, our Chief Executive, moved his base to
South Africa in January 2010 and as the year comes to 
a close I can report that we have successfully completed
the transfer of all London based operational and
management roles to Johannesburg. We are already
seeing benefits from this decision. 
Much has been achieved in the past two years. 
The health of our operations has been largely restored 
and we can now look forward to improving on the work
practices and disciplines that have been introduced into
our operations, in order to drive efficiency and productivity.
We will also continue to give concerted attention to our
safety performance which must be further improved. 
The imperatives of growth and transformation in South
Africa 
Virtually all Lonmin’s operating assets reside in South Africa
while only some 7.4% of our shares are held there, with the
balance held internationally. Lonmin has a premium listing
in London, with a secondary listing in Johannesburg.
Our commitment to ensuring that Lonmin’s South
African operations meet the highest standards of good
corporate citizenship remains undimmed despite the
emergence of new challenges during the year. As the
South African Government seeks to reverse the wrongs 
of the apartheid system, and normalise wealth distribution
in the country, it has introduced legislation designed to
accelerate transformation. Given the mining industry’s
historic dominance and its economic and social impact, it
has understandably been a focal point for change initiatives.
During the year the Government promulgated a revised
Mining Charter which, together with a Balanced Scorecard,
defines the actions required by companies wishing to 
retain their licence to operate. The Board has constituted a
Transformation Committee under the chairmanship of Cyril
Ramaphosa to support the many, complex and sometimes
costly initiatives which management must drive in order 
to achieve acceptable progress towards meeting these
transformational requirements. These range across every
aspect of our operations, from Historically Disadvantaged
South African (HDSA) equity ownership levels through to
procurement and training. We will report each year on our
progress towards these goals which, for the most part,
must be achieved by 2014. It is to be hoped that the sheer
scale of these changes for the mining industry as a whole,
at a time when operating margins, at least in the platinum
sector, are less than generous, will not stifle the growth
imperative on which the longer term economic prosperity 
of South Africa crucially depends. It is an uncomfortable
fact that recently South Africa’s mining industry has
experienced virtually no growth whilst internationally the
mining industry has grown annually. Recognition of the need
to restore South Africa’s attractiveness to international mining
investors was fundamental to the conclusions which emerged
from the work of the tripartite Mining Industry Growth,
Development and Employment Task Team (MIGDETT)
exercise which concluded its work during the year. 
Mention must also be made of the rather vocal calls 
for nationalisation of the mining industry. These do little 
for investor confidence, but we are encouraged by the
steadfast position that key government ministers, senior
leaders within the ANC, and other industry participants
such as the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), have
taken in arguing the weaknesses and dangers for South
Africa’s economy of a policy of nationalisation.
Mining has always been a highly capital intensive
business, and our operations are no exception. Access 
to equity, and indeed the international debt markets, is of
fundamental importance to the achievement of Lonmin’s
potential. The $458 million Rights Issue last year, and the
$229 million equity placement earlier in the year under
review effectively represented a large foreign direct
investment in South Africa. Our shareholders’ and bankers’
willingness to support Lonmin in its capital expenditure
programmes and in helping Shanduka Resources
(Proprietary) Limited (Shanduka) fund its investment in
Incwala Resources (Pty) Ltd (Incwala), depend on their 05 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
confidence in our security of tenure, primarily of our New
Order Mining Licences but, underlying that, of our mineral
rights. I am happy to report that a measure of uncertainty
in the latter regard was speedily resolved during the year
with the active co-operation of the Department of Mineral
Resources (DMR). There remains only a private challenge
to our right to mine associated minerals over a small part
of our property, and we are determined to do everything
possible to preserve that right.
Incwala and Shanduka
During the year we provided significant funding for
Shanduka to acquire Incwala shares from a number of
counterparties, including certain of the original HDSA
shareholders. Shanduka now holds interests directly and
indirectly which represent in aggregate 50.03% of the
shares of Incwala, an outcome which simplifies the
ownership structure. 
Operating successfully in South Africa today 
requires a Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) partner
that can actively add value. Meeting South Africa’s
transformational aspirations, addressing productivity
challenges in partnership with unions and investing in
growth with assurance of mining right security, all require
that the relationships with our many stakeholders operate
effectively. The Board believes that Shanduka as the
majority shareholder in Incwala has a proven track record
of investing in the natural resources sector, strong
leadership qualities, and has demonstrated the financial
capacity to participate in transactions together with
Lonmin. The Board therefore considers that a strong
partnership with Shanduka will serve Lonmin well. Our
commitment to the importance of this partnership is
evidenced by Cyril Ramaphosa joining the Lonmin Board
and by Shanduka’s representatives attending the Lonmin
Executive Committee meetings.
Against this background the Board decided that robust
funding would be required for the new BEE structure, in
order to secure the long term future and stability of
Incwala. It became clear that the best way of this being
achieved would be with funding from Lonmin and we
agreed to provide Shanduka with a $304 million five year
loan, secured on Shanduka’s interest in Incwala, with
Shanduka making an equity contribution of R300 million.
In line with the Board’s policy to maintain an appropriate
capital structure Lonmin financed this funding through a
combination of the net proceeds from a Placing to
institutional investors which raised £160 million ($229 million),
and from Lonmin’s own financial resources. I place on
record Lonmin’s appreciation of the support provided in
this placing by our larger shareholders, including Xstrata.
The South African Minister of Mineral Resources 
and the DMR acknowledged Lonmin’s support for the
transaction and endorsed it as a constructive contribution
to the long term financial stability of our BEE structure. 
Role and effectiveness of the Board
We are cognisant of the best practice recommendations of
the UK Corporate Governance Code, and comply with these
wherever we believe they confer competitive advantage.
The dynamic nature of the Board means that there is a
continual evolution of its role, but our guiding principle has
always been that all policy decisions affecting the delivery
of value to shareholders are reserved to the Directors, whose
key responsibilities are to participate fully in devising the
Company’s strategy, oversee the delivery of agreed
strategic objectives and ensure that risk is fully considered
and managed. When debating such issues I ensure that
comprehensive and relevant information is provided on a
timely basis, that sufficient time is available for full and
robust discussion and that there are opportunities to meet
the relevant operational executives. Clearly, the collective
blend of skills, experience, knowledge and independence
of thought of the Board members is crucial to that debate.
Significant effort has been devoted to building a cohesive
Board drawn from a diverse range of backgrounds, all of
whose members are afforded every opportunity to develop
a deep understanding of the business and who are
encouraged to contribute to our deliberations. As assurance
of the effectiveness of our Board, its Committees and their
respective processes, we have this year for the first time
employed an external facilitator to manage the annual
review. The results have been encouraging, with a number
of opportunities for incremental improvement identified and
the Board confirmed as being effective, as discussed more
fully in Section 2 of the Directors’ Report. The results of
this review will also inform our Board succession planning,
as we need to keep under review how best to equip
“OUR BUSINESS PERFORMED WELL IN 2010 AND MET
ITS PRODUCTION AND SALES FORECASTS, RETURNED
TO PROFITABILITY AND REINSTATED THE PAYMENT 
OF DIVIDENDS.”
Roger Phillimore
Chairman 06
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER (continued)
ourselves to meet the challenges of the medium and
longer terms. The Board recognises that its primary
accountability is to shareholders, and we have decided to
accede to the new best practice recommendation and
submit all directors for re-election on an annual basis,
from the 2011 AGM onwards.
We recognise fully that there could be a perception that
the Lonmin directorate may become somewhat remote
from the operations of the business in South Africa. We
regard it as truly important that the Board retains its seat
and prime governance functions in London, and that our
UK, and international, investors and financiers continue 
to be served at the highest level. However the diversity 
of our directorate, its significant collective South African
knowledge and experience, the fact that we have two
major meetings in South Africa each year and my own
and my colleagues’ frequent visits satisfy us that we will
continue to be able, as a Board, to meet fully our
oversight and governance obligations. 
Board changes
I am delighted to welcome to the Board Dr Len Konar 
and Cyril Ramaphosa who joined us during the year as
Non-executive Directors of the Company. Len is a highly
respected businessman in South Africa and his professional
contribution to the development of Lonmin will be important.
Cyril’s breadth of experience and wise counsel will be vital
in helping Lonmin build on its operational capacity in South
Africa and to fulfil its strategic transformational objectives. 
I also look forward to Mahomed Seedat, currently 
our Chief Operating Officer, joining the Board as a Non-
executive Director on 1 January 2011. Mahomed’s
judgement and leadership have been invaluable as we have
restored the operational health of the business and he will
remain in his executive position until the end of 2010. 
I am also pleased to welcome Simon Scott who 
was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director 
on 27 September 2010 and will assume his role as Chief
Financial Officer on 15 November 2010. Simon brings
both local knowledge and relevant experience of financial
management gained at senior levels of the South African
platinum mining industry. We look forward to the
substantial contribution he will make to the continuing
development of Lonmin in years to come. 
The Board would also like to acknowledge the
significant role which Alan Ferguson has played and will
continue to play until his departure on 31 December 2010.
This is a very different Company from the one he joined
three and a half years ago and a large part of the credit 
for this transformation should go to him. He will leave 
with our gratitude and best wishes. 
Outlook
We are confident that PGM markets will sustain the
improvements already seen, and have the potential to
advance further. Recovery in western automotive markets
and rapid growth in China will underpin auto catalyst
demand. A new factor of considerable potential is the
demand for catalysts for off-road vehicles. Platinum
jewellery demand, increasingly favoured in the Far East,
will be supported inter alia by the recent narrowing of the
spread between the gold and platinum prices. We remain
of the view that production increases by the South African
PGM industry over the next few years will remain modest.
We intend to build on the strong operational
performance of 2010 and anticipate that production at
Marikana including our share of the Pandora joint venture
will grow to enable us to achieve Platinum sales of around
750,000 ounces in 2011. Our main challenge will be
containing costs in the face of inflationary pressures in 
the mining industry and the largest component of our cost
is labour. Given this, we anticipate unit cost will increase 
by less than 8% on the assumption that we achieve a
settlement with the NUM in line with that achieved by 
our two larger competitors.
Our capital spend will rise this year to some $380 million.
This is higher than our previous guidance of $300-350 million
due to a decision to invest in the new furnace ($38 million
in 2011) and tailings treatment plants ($24 million in 2011),
neither of which were within the original guidance. The
furnace spend is essential as a risk mitigation in the short
term and to ensure there is adequate capacity in the
longer term. The tailings treatment project is an exciting one
as these new plants will recover PGMs from our chrome
depleted UG2 tailings. Over the next three years we expect
to spend c.$75 million on these plants, and as a result 
to improve our concentrator recoveries from 2012 onwards
at our UG2 plants by around 2%, which based on today’s
volumes represents around 25,000 PGM ounces per
annum. 
We remain on track to produce around 850,000
Platinum ounces by 2013 from our Marikana operations,
including our share of the Pandora joint venture, with
growth coming from Hossy, Saffy and K4. In addition to
Marikana, we still have options for growth at Limpopo and
Akanani and we will be turning our attention to these
matters in the coming year. The pace at which investment
into growth projects can be applied will be impacted by
the capital requirements and cash generating capabilities
of our existing operating assets as well as long term
demand trends for our products. 
Dividend
Given the improved financial performance of the business,
its projected cash requirements and current trading
conditions the Board has decided to resume the payment
of dividends. In coming to this decision the Board has
revised its dividend policy.
Our new policy is to recommend each year an
ordinary final dividend at a rate which the Board expects
can at least be maintained in subsequent years. This
annual dividend would be announced after the year end
and would be supplemented by a special final dividend in
years when our reported earnings for the previous year,
and our projected cash requirements, allow. Dividends 
will therefore be paid only once a year.
In implementing this new policy in a year which
produced net earnings (after minorities) of $112 million
(equivalent to 56.9 cents per share), the Board has given
consideration to the fact that operating margins are
currently still relatively low, our net debt at year end was
$375 million and that the capital expenditure requirements
of the business are considerable. 
The dividend of 15 US cents per share is recommended
as the ordinary final dividend for the year, to be paid to
shareholders on the registers at the close of business on
14 January 2011, subject to approval by shareholders at
the Annual General Meeting on 27 January 2011. 
Employees
Finally, I extend warm thanks to all Lonmin employees and
contractors. Their continued hard work and commitment
has enabled us to deliver a rewarding set of operational
and financial results, and the prospect of continuing
improvement.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
12 November 2010 07 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Dear Shareholder,
1. Delivering Today
I am pleased to report that we have produced a very
encouraging set of results whilst continuing to improve
on our safety record. These results mark the end of
the two year period we set ourselves in 2008 to
restore the operational health of our business and
demonstrate the significant progress we have made 
in that time. 
We achieved Platinum sales of 706,000 ounces
from our Marikana operations, ahead of sales guidance
of 700,000 ounces. The problems we encountered
with the Number One furnace again this year were
disappointing and meant that we had to toll refine and
sell some part processed material. This was the best
commercial option for the business.
Encouragingly metal in concentrate was 694,000
Platinum ounces, well ahead of 663,000 Platinum
ounces delivered last year, whilst the mines hoisted
some 700,000 Platinum ounces as ore stocks were
built up. This improvement came about through an
increase in underground tonnes hoisted, better grades
and significantly improved recoveries, all of which
more than offset the impact of closing Limpopo and
our UG2 opencast pits in 2009. 
At the same time, we continued to make
significant progress with our development of ore
reserves, a crucial indicator of the health of our mining
operations. 
Although we operated in an environment with
inflationary pressures on key inputs such as wages
and electricity, our Rand unit costs per PGM ounce
produced only increased by 2%, much lower than
South African PPI reflecting productivity improvements.
I believe we can now put behind us the notion 
that Lonmin is not on top of its operational game. 
Of course we will still have issues as this is, and will
always be, a very challenging business. These results
however, could not have been delivered without a
management team, and an emerging culture, in 
which matters are identified and dealt with in a timely,
constructive and professional manner and where 
Key Performance Indicators are tracked and
monitored on a regular basis. 
We have reiterated our production target of
850,000 Platinum ounces by 2013 from our Marikana
operations including our share of Pandora joint
venture, with replacement and growth ounces being
generated from Hossy, Saffy and K4.
Safety
Progress with our LTIFR
Safety is fundamental in everything we do and it will
always be at the forefront of our minds. We have
worked hard at addressing the behavioural and
cultural issues which are fundamental to a good safety
performance. This includes focusing on upgrading our
safe production training programmes and increasing
safe behaviour observations. We have also improved
our procedures for compiling safety data. 
Our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)
improved marginally, from the end of the 2009
financial year to 5.87 per million man hours worked,
but sadly we suffered three fatalities, two as a result 
of fall-of-ground incidents and one from a tramming
incident. We extend our sincere condolences to 
the families and friends of our late colleagues 
Miss Betty Moekwa, Mr Bavuyise Bala and 
Mr Siyabonga Tomose. 
We lost fewer tonnes this year from Section 54
stoppages as the frequency and length of the stoppages
decreased and the manner in which they are applied
became more pragmatic. This reflects the collaborative
relationship we have developed with our employees
and the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) on
safety matters, and the emphasis we have been
placing on consistent application of high safety
standards in all our operations.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
“THESE RESULTS COULD NOT HAVE BEEN DELIVERED
WITHOUT A MANAGEMENT TEAM AND AN EMERGING
CULTURE IN WHICH MATTERS ARE IDENTIFIED AND
DEALT WITH IN A TIMELY, CONSTRUCTIVE AND
PROFESSIONAL MANNER.” Ian Farmer
Chief Executive Officer 08
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (continued)
Mining 
Our Mining Division’s performance continued to
improve throughout the year, with quarter four being
very strong. The results reflect the division’s
commendable turnaround. Mining management
throughout the year placed a strong emphasis on
quality of mining and improving mining discipline and 
it has achieved this by introducing processes,
procedures and training to support these initiatives.
The success of these programmes is reflected in
the gradual increase in momentum we have seen
throughout the year. Indeed, whilst production in the
first half of the year was adversely impacted by the
Christmas holidays and a fatal accident Section 54
related stoppage at K3, the second half showed a
marked increase with underground production
reaching 5.8 million tonnes compared to 5.2 million
tonnes in the first half.
We have agreed a new working calendar with our
employees and unions for the forthcoming holiday
season which should help improve productivity and
provide for a good Christmas break for our mining
employees.
We have also streamlined the reporting in the
Mining Division into a four unit structure and removed
excess reporting levels, to enable management to be
as close to the operations as possible. We will now
report the output from these four mines separately in
our Production Report.
Ore reserves
The Marikana operations have immediately available
ore reserves of 2.7 million centares as at the end of
the 2010 financial year. This is a 32% increase from
the 2.0 million centares that were available at the end
of 2009 and it allows us to support future production
and forecast our short term output with greater
confidence. 
If there is one statistic which for me best illustrates
the scale of the turnaround that has been achieved in
the last two years it’s the fact that available ore
reserves are over 61% higher than they were at the
end of 2008.
Progress made with Hossy
Hossy’s production profile and grade has improved
during the year and we have decided to continue with
the fully mechanised proof of concept project. The
average monthly production has ramped up to 67,000
tonnes per month in 2010, a significant increase from
2009 when it averaged 56,000, whilst the grade has
improved from 4.38 to 4.60 grammes per tonne.
Two new mining half levels, defined as quadrants in a
mechanised shaft, came on stream in the first half of
this year bringing the total number of quadrants being
mined to six.
The key drivers to Hossy’s improvements have
been enhancements to the mining layout and
infrastructure and equipment upgrades. We have also
kept up our development and training initiatives in
core areas. This is important as there is a general
shortage of people with mechanised experience in 
the industry and this will remain a key area of focus. 
We retain our target of achieving productivity of
2,200 square metres per month per suite of
equipment by the end of 2011 financial year in fully
developed quadrants. 
Mining capital projects
We have continued to make good progress with 
the capital development at Hossy, Saffy, K4, and 
the declines at K3 and Rowland shafts, all of which
are essential to our medium term production. 
While the key focus for the team is delivery on time and
budget, the Capital team, under the leadership of Frank
Russo-Bello, are examining ways of reducing capital costs
and improving project productivity. Frank is also leading a
team that is looking at further opportunities to optimise
our life of mine extraction strategy.
Processing
The Process Division produced excellent results during the
year with significant recovery improvements being recorded. 
Of particular note were the much improved recoveries
at the concentrators which averaged 84.7% throughout
the year. This represents a significant 4.9% points
improvement over 2009. The success of our concentrator
optimisation programme, which we mention in the case
study on page 40, could only have been achieved through
the excellent teamwork and commitment of the employees
in this part of our operations led by Natascha Viljoen.
The refineries also performed very well this year, again
reflecting the discipline exercised by the teams at these
plants in following strict processes aided by excellent
technical support and plant maintenance programmes.
Number One furnace
In 2010 the Number One furnace was down for almost
fourteen weeks due to scheduled maintenance and as 
a result of the double run out experienced in March and
May this year. This necessitated toll refining and selling
part processed material as the backlog was too big to
hold in stock. The quantum refined by third parties
amounted to some 75,000 Platinum ounces and this had 
an impact on costs as discussed elsewhere.
The Number One furnace was taken down again 
at the end of October 2010 for a scheduled rebuild. This
is running to plan and we expect it to be re-commissioned
in December 2010. Whilst the Number One furnace is
down, the three pyromet furnaces will operate as usual
and we will continue to toll refine a limited amount of
metal-in-concentrate until the furnace is fully operational
again. We recognise and share the concerns of our
investors about the reliability of this vessel, but I believe
we have a team who understand the issues very well. 
We continue to make modifications to the furnace
designed to reduce disruption risk and this gives us
confidence, tempered with realism, for the future.
The decision was taken to add more back up capacity
and work has commenced on building the new 10MW
pyromet furnace which is planned to come into production
in quarter three 2012 at a capital cost of some R350 million.
Whilst any disruption to the Number One furnace is
always disappointing, the value impact of such an event is
not material to the long term value of Lonmin. As a result,
we do not intend to announce any future furnace
incidents unless they impact our market guidance.
Tailings projects
Earlier in the year, we entered into arrangements with
Xstrata-Merafe Chrome Venture and ChromTech to
construct chrome recovery plants which will treat tailings
from our UG2 concentrators. This initiative will generate
additional revenue of some $20-30 million per annum with
effect from 2012, dependant on the chrome price. The
impact on 2011 will be approximately $10 million. In
addition, we have commenced an investment programme
of around some $75 million to build tailings treatment
plants which when fully operational will improve our UG2
concentrator recoveries by some 2% from 2012 onwards,
equivalent when fully commissioned to approximately
25,000 PGM ounces annually.
People focus
Motivating and developing our people is a key contributor
to achieving consistent production. We continued to
introduce a number of employee relations initiatives 
designed to promote a safe performance driven culture. These are supported by regular and improved
communication between management and employees.
We have also rolled out a programme to standardise and
align the production reward system across all our
operations.
BEE partnership restructured
We are delighted to have played our part in helping
secure the future of Incwala, our BEE partner. It is
important that we have a strong BEE partner, and we
welcome Shanduka as Incwala’s majority shareholder. 
The terms of the funding provided to Shanduka,
to help facilitate this transaction, provide for Lonmin to
receive a fair commercial return. In addition, in the
event that there is significant future value created for
Shanduka through its Incwala shareholding, the terms
of the funding provide that a proportion of such
incremental value uplift will be shared with Lonmin.
This was not available to Lonmin under the original
Incwala transaction in 2004.
Shanduka has representation on our Executive
Committee which meets every month to consider
operational and strategic issues, and Cyril Ramaphosa
has joined the Lonmin Board. This partnership will
enable us to work closely together as we explore new
initiatives and execute our transformational objectives.
We raised £160 million of fresh capital to part fund
the loan to Shanduka and I would like to thank our
shareholders for their support. 
Social and Labour Plans
Our communities and our employees are very important
stakeholders. This year we have spent R35 million 
on community projects and R15 million on converting
five hostel blocks into married and single room
accommodation for our employees. There is still much
more work to be done in both these areas and we have
budgeted to invest some R42 million in 2011 on
community projects and R100 million per annum for the
next three years on our hostel conversion programme. 
The education and training of our employees is
another key area and we continue to have employees
enrolling in the Adult Based Education Training (ABET)
adult learning scheme. Our total training budget for
2011 amounts to some R208 million, which includes
the provision of bursaries to some 43 full time university
students of which 37 are Historically Disadvantaged
South Africans (HDSAs) and 21 are female.
Our management payroll now includes 43%
HDSAs and these are all merit based appointments. 
Sustainability
Transformation is an essential area of business 
in South Africa today and we are making steady
progress. More of the work that we have done in 
this area is covered on pages 36 to 54 of this report
and is also reported on in detail in our Sustainable
Development Report on our website.
Seamless transfer of London operations to
Johannesburg
The move of all London based operational and
management roles to South Africa is now largely
complete. The transfer of these operations has run
smoothly under the leadership of Alan Ferguson and
we go into 2011 with all these functions based in South
Africa. We will be sad to bid farewell to many of our
London colleagues who will not be relocating, but we
welcome our new team members. It is already clear
that placing the Executive Directors closer to the
operations will generate many benefits some of 
which have already started to come through. 
2 Industry wide challenges and successes
There are a number of challenges faced by the South
African mining industry, some of which received
significant publicity during the year.
The Revised Mining Charter
It was pleasing to note that a collaborative approach
was adopted with the review of the Mining Charter
which was released in early September 2010. Lonmin,
along with other participants in the mining industry,
was involved through the South African Chamber of
Mines. The Revised Mining Charter has brought clarity
in some areas and has re-oriented 2014 goals to take
into account the experience of the last five years.
Concern has however been expressed by industry
participants and international investors regarding the
degree of subjectivity that still remains, as well as the
powers granted to the Minister of Mineral Resources
to unilaterally amend the Charter. In this context,
concern has been expressed that companies’ security
of tenure over their operations may be unfairly
compromised.
We cannot understate the challenge the industry
generally, and certainly Lonmin, faces in achieving
some of the 2014 goals within the timeframe
provided. Whilst investors have factored in the
imperative for transformation there is a cost in 
terms of time, effort and money associated with
implementing social transformation which is not easily
quantifiable but nonetheless exists. As South Africa
positions itself to become globally competitive, and 
an attractive destination for inward investment, these
are issues which cannot be ignored especially if the
industry is to contribute to South Africa’s well being 
to the full extent of its potential.
During 2011 we will be reviewing our Social and
Labour Plans in the light of the revised Mining Charter
and we will report annually on progress against these
plans. 
Associated Minerals 
In May 2009 we discovered that we had an issue
regarding our right to dispose of associated minerals
(i.e. non PGM metals which are found in our ore body
and which must be mined and processed together
with the PGMs) when Keysha Investments 220
(Proprietary) Limited (Keysha) applied for a prospecting
right over a small part of our property. In our view it is
illogical and wrong that a prospecting right can be
granted over an ore body where mining is already
taking place, and where that company has in good
faith converted its old order rights into new order
mining rights. The spirit and intention of the
conversion process was intended to leave title holders
in the same position after conversion as before. 
After taking comprehensive legal advice we
appealed against both the application for and the
subsequent award of the prospecting right. We also
filed section 102 applications to regularise the position
in respect of the balance of our property that was
unaffected by the Keysha prospecting right. On 4 August
2010 the DMR issued us with a notice suspending our
ability to sell all associated minerals across our business.
We announced these facts to the market which
generated significant media attention for both Lonmin
and the wider South African mining industry. Shortly
thereafter the Section 102s were all approved
confirming Lonmin’s right to extract and sell all
associated minerals. The issue with regard to the
Keysha prospecting right remains outstanding. We
await the outcome of our appeal and we will take the
matter to judicial review if necessary.
09 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc 10
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (continued)
Skills Shortage 
Skills shortages remain an issue. The scarcity of
experienced people nationally and globally means that
the industry is always chasing talent and there is an
insufficient skills pipeline to address this. This impacts
mainly on our mining operations, particularly at our
mechanised Hossy shaft. We have developed a new
training strategy for the business whereby we will
refocus our training budget on better value adding
initiatives that will help to address these challenges.
Inflationary Pressures and Rand Strength
While South Africa has reported declining consumer
price inflation during 2010, down to levels of around
3.5%, the mining sector has experienced significant
inflationary pressures, driven by the high cost of inputs
such as labour (up c.8-10%) and power (up c.26%).
As well as impacting on working cost, this also
impacts on capital investment. 
These pressures allied to the strength of the Rand
has meant that margins and the resulting free cash
flow have been held back. This means as a business
we have to strive to deliver more output from the
same input and this will be a major area of focus 
as we go into 2011. 
3 Anticipating tomorrow: the key areas of focus
Safety
We will maintain our focus on safety particularly around
training and employee behaviour as we continue our
journey to zero harm.
Productivity
We have worked hard to restore the health of our
Marikana operations in the past two years and we will
continue to monitor vigilantly the key operational
metrics of this business. Our focus on available ore
reserve development will remain undiminished.
Our challenge for next year is however subtly
different from that faced in 2009 and 2010. Whilst we
have been effective in 2010, we are not producing as
efficiently as we can and 2011 will be a year when we
will seek to drive productivity in our operations. This is
vitally important given the inflationary pressures we will
face as we go into 2011 and our objective of moving
back down the relative cost curve. Our key focus will
thereforebeon driving productivity. 
We will look at a number of areas:
Day to day productivity
We are turning our attention to areas where we can
improve our daily productivity. This is the one area
where we can see immediate flow through to our
production. We have also suffered historically from 
a shortage of developed ore reserves, but we are 
now well positioned. We will focus on mining our
shafts efficiently, considering optimisation of half levels
as well as improving metrics such as advance per
blast. Importantly, we will build on the momentum 
we have achieved in 2010 and the partnership we
have built with our employees to support us in this
challenge. This will be done through a range of
measures including appropriate bonus arrangements
and a new working calendar.
Structural issues
There are some areas which are more difficult to
change immediately as they are structural in nature.
These include declining production from our small
older shafts as they approach the end of their working
lives, the pace at which Hossy and Saffy will move
towards full capacity and the timing of K4 coming on
stream. Initially of course the new ounces from K4 will
be relatively expensive but the cost per ounce will
decrease as production ramps up.
Rebuilding the Number One furnace and bringing the
new furnace into production on time and on budget are
the other major areas of focus. 
Investing in the future
2011
Capital expenditure at around $380 million is above our
previous guidance due to the inclusion of the new furnace
as well as the tailings treatment initiatives. We will, however,
continue to monitor affordability and development capital
will always take priority. The majority of our capital spend
will be predominantly Rand based and will therefore be
impacted by exchange rate movements.
2011 and beyond
We will start to focus on how we wish to achieve 26%
BEE ownership in our operations by 2014. Currently we
have 18% BEE ownership for Marikana and Limpopo and
26% for Akanani. We see a broad based structure as
optimal, but we will be reviewing our options and ensuring
we protect our shareholders’ interests. 
Whilst Limpopo remains on care and maintenance, 
we are exploring opportunities available to us to resume
operations as well as working with other parties to examine
what possibilities we have to develop this asset further. 
4 Outlook
Guidance
Our operations have turned a corner and 2011 will be the
next important step towards achieving our sales target of
850,000 Platinum ounces by 2013. We expect to continue
to gain momentum whilst maintaining the quality of our
production. We anticipate sales of 750,000 Platinum
ounces in 2011 with additional production coming from
Hossy, Saffy, K3 and opencast whilst output from our
Newman shaft is starting to decline. 
Despite the significant inflationary pressures our
operations will face, we expect to maintain cost control by
driving productivity and limiting the increase in cost per
ounce. Given this we anticipate that unit cost will increase
by less than 8% on the assumption that we achieve a
settlement with the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM)
in line with that achieved by our two larger competitors. 
As already reported, our capex guidance is 
c.$380 million. Most of the mining capital spend will 
be on bringing K4 into production, finalising the capital
footprints in Hossy and Saffy and extending the mine 
lives of K3 and Rowland.
Beyond 2013
We also have to start turning our minds to our other
assets and profitable growth, as a business, beyond
850,000 Platinum ounces. Our initial focus for growth
beyond 2013 will be on the assets we already have in our
portfolio such as Akanani, Limpopo and Pandora and of
course Marikana. We will provide direction on the
outcome of our review of these assets and any other
potential options we may identify as appropriate. 
5 Employees’ contribution
Our business relies on the dedication and support of our
employees, contractors and community members. In a
year when we have completed the restoration of our
operations back to good health I would like to thank 
each and every one of them, for their contribution and
hard work. 
Ian Farmer
Chief Executive Officer
12 November 2010 11 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
“OUR TEAM HAS BEEN ACHIEVING ITS PRODUCTION
TARGETS WORKING IN A SAFE AND EFFICIENT
MANNER.”
ITHUMULENG PHOSOKO – SHIFT SUPERVISOR, SHAFT 1B UG2
1B Shaft is one of the shafts we have in Marikana which has access to both
the Merensky and UG2 reefs. Two years ago we took the decision to change
the mining method at this shaft from fully mechanised to hybrid mining with
the ultimate intention of converting the whole shaft to conventional mining. 
Ithumuleng is one of our Shift Supervisors in the 1B UG2 section of the
mine, where the development and stoping are currently both mechanised.
From a young age, Ithumuleng was interested in geological features and 
their composition and decided to pursue a career in mining. She has a 
BSC in Mining from the University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg. While
completing her studies, she joined Lonmin as a graduate trainee. She has
since satisfied the requirements for both her blasting and shift supervisor
certificates. She has worked in both the stoping and development aspects
of mining.
Ithumuleng has a team of 30 people who work with her. Her mine shifts
mined 189,000 tonnes of ore exceeding its budget by 2.8% for the year to
30 September 2010. She believes that good two way communication with
her team is important and leads to greater team cohesiveness and ultimately
safe and efficient production. 
CASE STUDY: SHAFT 1B UG2 12
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Market Overview
Last year we said 2010 would be a year of steady
recovery as automotive and industrial demand increased
from the very low levels of 2009 and that demand would
improve further from mid 2011 onwards. While short term
market visibility remains somewhat opaque, we still believe
this to hold true. The recovery of the global economy in
2010 was reflected in PGM pricing, with the prices of all
metals rising during our financial year as the fiscal and
monetary stimulus injected into the global economy
encouraged the replenishment of inventories which had
been depleted during 2008 and 2009.
In the short to medium term platinum demand will be
driven by a number of factors. The continued recovery in
the automotive sector in general as well as the
introduction of legislation for off road vehicles, dominated
by diesel engines, will stimulate demand. Jewellery sales
continue to play a valuable role as the elastic demand
element and this segment is helped by the increasing
number of Chinese consumers being able to afford
platinum jewellery as well as the narrowing price
differential between platinum and gold. ETF purchases
have assisted platinum price recovery although more
recently trading volumes appear to have stabilised.
During the first half of the 2010 financial year, platinum
prices rose 28% from $1,280 per ounce to $1,644 per
ounce averaging $1,481 per ounce. Platinum prices
averaged $1,596 per ounce in the second half of the
financial year, a rise of 8% on the first half average.
Palladium outperformed platinum on the back of firm
supply and demand fundamentals, with palladium
dominating the gasoline engine auto catalyst market
recovery in North America and the unabated growth in
China. In addition ETFs have been another source of
demand in the period whilst rumours persist that the
Russian stock piles are close to depletion. Prices have
risen 95% from $290 per ounce at the end of the 2009
financial year to $565 per ounce at the end of the 2010
financial year.
Rhodium pricing has shown a steady recovery on the
back of the automotive industry restocking although it has
been somewhat range bound lately largely as a
consequence of rhodium’s more limited product
application. Despite this it has maintained a price above
the $2,000 per ounce level since early November 2009.
Longer term, the impact of environmental legislation
as a driver of demand continues unabated and indeed
existing legislation will drive increased demand for our
products out through 2015. In addition, there remain other
forms of transportation which we expect will eventually fall
into the legislative net. Other areas of potential growth
such as fuel cells, both stationary and those used in
vehicles, continue to gather momentum. Electric cars
which do not use PGMs will continue to attract headlines,
but from all the research seen they are highly unlikely to
become a significant market segment in terms of vehicle
units in the next decade.
Supply side challenges remain for all producers with
the lack of free cash flow significantly reducing mining
capital investment over the last two years. This allied to
deeper mines, lower grades, skill shortages and long term
power and water supply challenges all mean the supply
side response to increasing demand is likely to be muted.
The strength of the South African Rand, and the
inflationary pressures in the country, will also continue to
squeeze operating margins and cash flows whilst they
persist. All of these factors will provide an underpin to
metal prices in the medium to long term, especially if
demand picks up more strongly than anticipated.
Consequently we will continue to carefully balance the
need to invest in growth ahead of the continued, and
maybe stronger, upturn in demand whilst at the same time
remaining focused on maintaining strong financial discipline.
Safety
It is with regret that we report the death of three of our
employees during 2010, however, continued focus on
safety has resulted in the LTIFR reducing to 5.87 per
million hours. This is the sixth year in a row that we have
achieved a year on year rate improvement. Various
milestones were reached during the year. Saffy shaft has
from the outset, ten years ago, never reported a fatality
which is an excellent achievement in the South African
mining industry. Several of our other shafts (six in total)
have achieved in excess of 1.0 million fatality free shifts
with 4B and E1 shafts currently standing on 4.0 million
and 3.4 million fatality free shifts respectively. Further
details of our Safety strategy can be found in the
Sustainable Development Review on page 43.
We have focused our drive for improved safety on six
areas; mindset, culture, safety leadership, governance,
risk assessment management and compliance. In each of
these areas tactical measures were rolled out across the
business and the individual elements were driven down
through the organisation. The road to zero harm is a
journey and there is always more we can and will do.
Our continuous focus on safety, and a more
pragmatic approach from the Department of Mineral
Resource (DMR), is reflected in the fact that tonnes lost as
a result of Section 54 safety shut downs were 0.2 million
lower than in 2009. This was the result of fewer and less
severe Section 54s issued.
Managing organisational risk exposure is paramount
to Lonmin and an extensive review of all shaft baseline risk
assessments was completed this year, which has resulted
in an improvement of all shaft based risk registers.
LONGER TERM, THE IMPACT OF ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION 
AS A DRIVER OF DEMAND CONTINUES UNABATED AND INDEED
EXISTING LEGISLATION WILL DRIVE INCREASED DEMAND FOR OUR
PRODUCTS OUT THROUGH 2015. “PROACTIVE RECTIFICATION OF SAFETY
HAZARDS IS A KEY FACTOR IN OUR ONGOING
JOURNEY TOWARDS ZERO HARM.”
LAWRENCE GCILITSHANA – SAFETY OFFICER, K3
Lawrence joined Lonmin as a General Labourer in 1985. He worked in
various mining roles and in a number of our shafts before joining the K3
Shaft Safety team as a Safety Officer in 2006.
K3 is our largest shaft. It employed around 6,000 people including
contractors, as at 30 September 2010 and mines over 20% of our
production. The Safety team is an integral part of the K3 mining team and
the shaft has seen a profound turnaround in safety statistics as evidenced by
the 11.63% reduction in the LTIFR in the year to 30 September 2010. A
constant awareness of one’s surroundings and the willingness to stop and
“make safe” areas in underground work places is one of the reasons K3 has
seen a significant improvement in safety, although there is always more to do. 
Lawrence firmly believes that regular and effective two way communication
with all members of staff at all levels is a critical factor to maintaining safe mining.
The K3 team embrace this ideology through daily verbal communication at
the crush area, reinforced through visual aides and interactive information
sessions.
In July 2010, Lawrence was awarded the SHERQ star of the Year in
Lonmin, an award which reflects the deep rooted passion Lawrence has 
to an integrated approach to safe mining. 
CASE STUDY: K3 SAFETY
13 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information “WE EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO ENHANCE OUR
WORKING METHODS AND HENCE PRODUCTIVITY
THROUGH TEAM WORK AND THE SHARING OF IDEAS.”
GRANT WEBBER – MINE MANAGER, HOSSY SHAFT
When Grant joined Lonmin in 2008, he was enrolled in an extensive
induction programme, where he gained comprehensive knowledge and an
understanding of the various mining, processing and refining components
which collectively form the mining process. Today, Grant is part of the Mining
management team, as the Mine Manager of Hossy Shaft. 
Hossy is our fully mechanised shaft and significant progress has been
made in ramping up and improving production. Production has now reached
an average of 67,000 tonnes per month compared to an average of 56,000
tonnes per month during 2009. Grant notes that 2010 was a challenging yet
exciting year for the entire Hossy team. Long and short term strategic
objectives were identified through the assessment of four key areas which
needed addressing, namely: optimisation of mining layout, trackless support
infrastructure, XLP equipment upgrades and people skills development. 
In addition, two new quadrants have commenced with stoping operations.
The redesign of our development layout has cut out 22% of the
development metres required to open up additional ground. This has
resulted in cost and grade improvements whilst the successful installation 
of the strike conveyor belts has led to an increase in our productivity.
We have also improved our overall safety record. This is mainly due to 
the intensive trackless supervisor training given to the mining employees,
the utilisation of a risk analysis and tracking system for each of the working
areas as well as constant communication with all employees.
CASE STUDY: HOSSY SHAFT
14 15
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
OPERATIONAL REVIEW (continued)
Mining Division
In our 2010 financial year, the Mining Division demonstrated
continuous improvement, culminating in very strong
production results for the last quarter. Total tonnes mined
during the 2010 financial year were 11.3 million, a 0.5 million
tonne increase from 2009. This is largely attributable to
the ramp up in production from our Middelkraal (Hossy
and Saffy) operation. Marikana opencast operations
resumed production in March 2010 having been closed
during the first half of 2009. However, the increase in
Marikana opencast was more than offset by the decrease
in Pandora opencast production as this was mined out
during 2009. There was no production from the Baobab
shaft at Limpopo during the year and this shaft continues
on care and maintenance while we evaluate potential
options to restart operations.
A primary area of focus for the Mining management
team continued to be ore reserve development. At the
end of September 2010, immediately available underground
ore reserves at Marikana reached 2.7 million square metres.
The year on year increase of 32% is a very positive
indicator and it demonstrates that the health of the ore
body has been largely restored. Our two deep shafts, K3
and Rowland, increased ore reserves by 59% and 49%
respectively, although K3 UG2 is still not where we want it
to be. The two shafts in ramp up, Hossy and Saffy, also
increased ore reserves by 41% and 14% respectively. Of
course higher extraction rates will continue to require even
greater levels of development to maintain a satisfactory
ore reserve position and our plans in this regard are well 
in hand.
Our continued focus on delivering quality tonnes
resulted in an improvement in the milled head grade for
underground ore of 2.2%, which equates to around an
additional 29,000 PGM ounces.
A number of the productivity programmes that were
initiated by the Mining team are starting to show benefits
in 2010. These include:
• New incentive programmes for our productive
employees to increase the element of variable pay.
These have delivered significant efficiency improvements
most noticeably towards the end of the financial year. 
• The removal of technical bottlenecks and the
implementation of improved operating systems at
each shaft have contributed somewhat to the
increased output, however, this still remains an area 
of further opportunity.
• The implementation of several initiatives to assist us 
in better managing inspections by the DMR, including
a review of relevant procedures and the roll out of a
union consultation and communication plan relating 
to Section 54 stoppages.
• The implementation of a new working calendar for the
year should improve productivity as well as providing our
mining employees with a well earned Christmas break.
Management attention is directed on achieving
productivity improvements to mitigate the inflationary cost
pressures being experienced by the industry. Issues such
as absenteeism remain problematic and will be receiving
further attention during the course of 2011. Further work
will also be carried out on improving our mining operating
and cost management reporting systems.
Marikana Mining
The total underground production at 10.8 million tonnes
was the highest achieved since 2007. This represented an
increase of 6% from the 10.2 million tonnes produced in
2009. It was encouraging to see momentum building over
the course of the year, with tonnes mined in quarter four
being 20% above the same period last year, and 19%
above quarter three 2010. 
The Merensky opencast operations at Marikana
started production towards the end of the second quarter
of the 2010 financial year and is well on track. The current
production of around 80,000 tonnes per month from
opencast operations should be maintained during 2011. 
During the year we revised the management structure
into four discrete business units which will improve
accountability and help drive performance. We will report
against these units from now onwards.
In 2010 we mined 4.1 million tonnes from our Karee
operations (currently K3,1B/4B but will include K4 when it
comes into production), an increase of 0.2 million tonnes
from 2009. This is a result of the improvement in ore
reserves and reduction in the year on year impact of tonnes
lost due to Section 54 shut downs. Cost per tonne increased
year on year by 13% to R537 per tonne largely due to the
wage increase and a 24% increase in development costs.
The challenge here is to improve the performance of K3
and we are starting to see encouraging results.
Production from our Westerns operations (Rowland
and Newman) at 3.7 million tonnes declined by 0.2 million
tonnes on 2009. This was all due to the closure of two
mined out shafts, W1 and B3 during 2009 which produced
0.4 million tonnes. Unit costs were well contained with
cost per tonne increasing by just 4% to R474 per tonne.
The build up in production from our mechanised 
and hybrid shafts at Middelkraal (Saffy and Hossy) is
progressing well and increased by 0.5 million tonnes, or
39% to 1.9 million. Cost per tonne reduced by 1% to
R629 per tonne with the ramp up in production and
productivity measures improving efficiencies.
Saffy continued to perform extremely well, despite the
multiple challenges faced by shaft management in
converting from fully mechanised to hybrid mining during
the year, with the shaft exceeding its September month
target, the highest in the year, by 14%. The transition to
full hybrid mining was completed on schedule. Saffy also
exceeded its ounce production target for 2010 through a
combination of the quality tonnes delivered and a shaft
head grade above the planned grade. Saffy’s growth rate
will be much lower in 2011 as development work to open
up lower levels is completed. Growth rates should
accelerate again in 2012.
Hossy also recorded a good year, reflecting improved
productivity on centares per month per suite of
mechanised equipment during the 2010 financial year.
Over the course of the year, production at Hossy
continued to ramp up with the average in 2010 of 67,000
tonnes per month growing by almost 20%. The biggest
challenge being faced by the mechanised mining team
centres around machine reliability, the availability of
replacement parts and the supply of trained artisans and
we have ongoing programmes to address these issues.
The target of 2,200 square metres per suite of equipment
from fully developed quadrants is still expected to be
achieved by the end of the 2011 financial year. 16
OPERATIONAL REVIEW (continued)
Our Easterns operation (E1, E2, and E3) also showed
an improvement due to the focus on development and
productivity improvements. Tonnes mined at 1.1 million
were up 0.1 million or some 16% up on 2009. Cost per
tonne was up 7% to R544 per tonne.
Costs for the 2010 financial year at our core
underground conventional operations at Marikana Mining
were R532 per tonne, up 8% from 2009. It should be
noted that this was achieved despite the continued cost
pressures with wage increases of 10% and electricity rate
increases of 26%, both well in excess of the published
PPI data. Development costs have also increased 13%
resulting in increased ore reserves. Additionally extra 
costs were incurred during the year to increase the roof
support in some of the mines to improve safety, as well 
as to extract ore from previously abandoned areas.
Therefore, whilst this performance demonstrated some
underlying productivity improvements, including the full
year benefits of the March 2009 restructuring programme,
more needs to be done to continue to mitigate the
inflationary increases expected for 2011.
Despite the increase in cost per tonne, improvements
in grade and recoveries mean that the C1 cost per saleable
PGM ounce produced for Mining increased by just 2%.
Capital expenditure during 2010 at our Marikana
Mining division was $205 million, the majority of which
was allocated to Hossy, Saffy, K3 and K4.
Pandora joint venture
Our share of production from the Pandora joint venture
underground operation during the financial year was
166,000 tonnes mined, up 17% over 2009. Opencast
production at the joint venture came to an end during
2009 giving a year on year decrease of 156,000 tonnes.
Total production was, therefore, down 132,000 tonnes 
on 2009.
Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore from the Pandora
joint venture and this ore contributed 49,345 saleable
ounces of PGMs in concentrate to our production.
Pandora joint venture activities made a profit of $5 million
after tax for our account in the financial year.
The extension of the current Pandora underground
operation which will give access to two additional levels,
extending the life of the shaft, has commenced and
completion is planned for 2011. The feasibility study on
the 180,000 tonnes per month project was concluded
during 2010 and various components of the study
continue to be reviewed in order to extract the optimal
value for the joint venture. This includes an option to
extend the current decline project resulting in access to
four additional levels.
Process Division
The Process Division’s focus over the last two years on
improving efficiencies was rewarded with overall recovery
increases. The most significant increase was in
underground recovery rates at the concentrators which
increased year on year by 3.8% points to 84.8%. This is
the highest since 2005 and is a significant achievement.
This, combined with the reduction of opencast ore in the
mix resulted in an improvement of 4.9% points in the
overall concentrator recovery rate.
C1 unit costs for the year in the Process Division were
R809 per saleable PGM ounce produced which represents
an increase of 17% over 2009. If toll treatment and
smelter rebuild costs are removed from the calculation,
but not the associated ounces, the unit cost for the division
would have actually decreased by 1%. This was achieved
despite wage increases of 10%, increased expenditure on
plant maintenance at the concentrators of 44% and a
26% price rise for electricity.
Capital expenditure was $54 million with the main
areas of spend being the concentrator optimisation
project, upgrade of the PMR security system and tailings
and storm water upgrades.
Concentrators
The concentrators produced a total of 694,376 saleable
ounces of Platinum in concentrate during the 2010
financial year, a 4.7% year on year increase, mainly as a
result of more Marikana underground tonnes, higher
concentrator recovery rates and improved head grade.
Indeed the saleable ounces of Platinum in concentrate
from underground mining (including Pandora) rose by
11.8% in the year. This significant increase outweighed
the impact of the shafts and pits closed in 2009. 
Overall concentrator recoveries improved during the
2010 financial year to 84.7%, from 79.8% in 2009, and
the underground recoveries increased to 84.8% in 2010,
from 81.0% in 2009, mainly as a result of the extensive
concentrator optimisation programme undertaken over
the last two years, which has focused on plant availability
and reliability, milling the right ores at the right
concentrator and excellent management disciplines.
Performance against our internal plant recovery models,
which take account of ore mix issues, also showed a
significant improvement during the year and we are now
operating close to the optimal level.
Given this, we are now considering how to take our
performance to higher levels and our main focus is on
extracting value from the treatment of our tailings.
Contracts for the extraction of chrome have been signed
with Xstrata-Merafe Chrome Venture and ChromTech and
construction on three new plants has commenced. These
are to be commissioned in the second half of the 2011
financial year. This will result in around $10 million
additional revenue in 2011 and there will be a further
increase in 2012 as the plants will be on line for a full year.
Tailings treatment plants which re-treat tailings from the
chrome plants to recover additional PGMs are also to be
constructed and commissioned. The first is currently
under construction, with commissioning scheduled
towards the end of 2011. When all three treatment plants
are operational the recoveries from our UG2
concentrators should increase by up to 2%.
Underground milled head grade was 2.2% higher 
year on year at 4.67 grammes per tonne (5PGE+Au)
mainly as a result of better mining grade control allied to
reduced dilution at Saffy as the mining method changed
assisted by increased production from the stoping
horizon, and at Hossy as a result of a revised mine layout.
Overall milled head grade increased significantly year on
year from 4.50 to 4.65 grammes per tonne (5PGE+Au)
due to less open cast ore being processed. The bulk of
the open cast ore mined this year has been stockpiled
and will be milled during the Christmas break. 17 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Smelter
The Smelter processed 136,818 tonnes of concentrate
during 2010, an 8% year on year decline, mainly as a
result of lower Number One furnace availability. In
November 2009 the Number One furnace was taken
down for a scheduled rebuild whilst on 30 March 2010 a
matte run out occurred when matte came into contact
with two lower waffle coolers after the heat up phase
following a mickey block repair. During recommissioning 
a leak occurred on the slag side which delayed the restart
of the furnace.
In total the availability of the Number One furnace in
2010 was only 74%. As a consequence the back up
pyromet furnaces and external toll smelting / refining 
were also used to process the excess concentrate
produced in the second half of the financial year.
A risk mitigation programme at the Number One
furnace was put in place which included reviewing the
vessel’s original specification, with a view to making it
more robust. As a result, the furnace was taken down 
at the end of October when modifications will be made 
to reduce the risk of further matte run outs. These
modifications include increasing the safety margin, in
terms of matte levels and replacing the lower waffle
coolers with refractory bricks and plate coolers. 
In order to mitigate the impact of future Number One
furnace disruptions, the Lonmin Board approved capital
expenditure for a new 10MW furnace and it is expected
that this new vessel will be commissioned in May 2012.
Refineries
The continuous focus on recoveries is showing through
and efficiencies and recoveries have improved year on
year supported by robust plant maintenance programmes.
The BMR and PMR produced a total of 607,794
saleable ounces of Platinum and a total of 1,205,443
saleable ounces of PGMs during the 2010 financial year,
down 7% and 3% respectively from the same period in
2009 due to the impact of the Number One furnace
downtime.
Final metal sales for 2010, including the toll refining of
77,571 Platinum ounces and the sale of 24,850 Platinum
ounces in concentrate in the fourth quarter of the year,
was slightly ahead of our sales guidance at 706,274
ounces of Platinum and 1,325,390 of total PGMs. 
Unit costs
In line with our peers in the South African mining industry,
Lonmin has experienced continued inflationary cost
pressures. Gross costs rose from R8.8 billion in 2009 to
R9.7 billion in 2010, an increase of just under 10% driven
by wage increases of 10%, 26% electricity price rise, toll
refining costs, furnace rebuild costs, additional development
costs which resulted in improved ore reserves, increases
in royalties and share based payment costs. In addition,
maintenance costs increased as we drove improved
recoveries and of course variable costs rose to support
the 6% increase in refined PGM ounces produced. 
It should be noted that toll costs will still impact on
profits in 2011. There will be some toll refining carried out
in quarter one as part of a risk mitigation plan, given the
planned down time at the Number One furnace. In
addition there are still ounces in stock which are being toll
refined. When sold their carrying cost will include a toll fee.
Excluding the unexpected costs of R106 million for toll
refining concentrate and R52 million for rebuilding the
Number One furnace, as well as excluding the new 
state royalty of R40 million and the increase in share
based payments of R30 million, the drivers of which are
not linked to South African inflation, gross costs increased
by 7%. This is slightly higher than the latest published PPI
figure of 6.8%.
Despite these gross cost increases, unit costs per
PGM ounce only increased by 2% to R6,773. Excluding
just the toll refining and smelter rebuild costs would mean
that underlying unit costs would have increased by less
than 1%. Lonmin remains committed to move down the
cost curve with continuous focus on productivity
improvements planned for 2011.
Further details of unit cost analysis can be found in
the operating statistics table on page 148. It should be
noted that with the further restructuring of the business
that occurred in the year the cost allocation between
business units has been changed to a degree and,
therefore, whilst the total is on a like for like basis
individual line items are not totally comparable. 18
RESERVES & RESOURCES
During 2010, Lonmin has reviewed its Mineral Resource and Reserves and certain areas have been re-estimated where
necessary. The more notable changes are as follows:
• The Mineral Resources at Marikana were largely unchanged. The tonnage depletion through mining was offset by
slightly more Inferred Resources as a result of additional data acquired through surface drilling. Exploration drilling at
Marikana in FY10 was focused on infill drilling rather than Mineral Resource extension;
• A revision of the relative proportions of the individual precious metals resulted in slight adjustments to the Platinum
quantities at Marikana and Pandora;
• The Nickel and Copper grades of the Marikana Mineral Resource were reviewed and the average Nickel and Copper
percentages are reported in the main Resource and Reserve report for each ore type;
• The Marikana Mineral Reserve grade increased by 3% (0.12 g/t). As a result the 3PGE+Au content of the reserve
was slightly higher (0.6 Moz). This was largely due to several areas of Probable Reserves being removed from the
reserve and replaced by new higher grade reserves;
• The Proved Reserves increased by 24%, reflecting the Company’s focus on Ore Reserve Development in 2010;
• The down-dip extension to the Pandora Plan 4 area was included in the Mineral Reserve in 2010, resulting in
approximately 0.3 Moz of 3PGE+Au being added to in the Probable Reserve category attributable to Lonmin;
• Modelling of the assay results received from the prior year’s diamond drilling at Akanani further increased the
confidence in the P2 portion of the Mineral Resource. Over 80% of the P2 Resource is now declared as an Indicated
Resource. The quantity of P2 Mineral Resource increased by 3% and 3PGE+Au grades remained largely
unchanged, confirming the robustness of the grade of this portion of the Akanani Mineral Resource. In addition, the
volume and grade of the underlying P1 Mineral Resource was increased, albeit in the lower confidence category
(Inferred Resources);
• An Inferred Resource has been declared on the Denison Property, near Sudbury Ontario, Canada which is subject to a
JV that was formed with INCO (now Vale) in 2005. This is the first Mineral Resource declared for the JV and although the
initial resource is relatively small it demonstrates the economic potential for this style of mineralisation in the area; and
• The total 3PGE+Au content of the overall Lonmin Mineral Resource increased by 2% and the grade decreased
marginally. This was primarily a result of the increase in the Inferred P1 Resource at Akanani.
A summary of the changes in both the Lonmin Mineral Resources and Reserves is shown in the following tables and
should be read in conjunction with the Key Assumptions outlined below. The complete 2010 Mineral Resources and
Reserves statement can be found on our website: www.lonmin.com.
Mineral Resources (Total Measured, Indicated & Inferred)
1,4,5
30-Sep-2010 30-Sep-2009
Mt
5
3PGE+Au Pt Mt
5
3PGE+Au Pt
Area g/t Moz Moz g/t Moz Moz
Marikana 740.1 5.05 120.1 71.7 750.7 5.01 120.8 71.2
Limpopo
2
144.7 4.23 19.7 10.0 144.7 4.22 19.6 10.0
Limpopo Baobab shaft 46.1 3.91 5.8 3.0 46.1 3.91 5.8 3.0
Akanani 216.0 3.84 26.7 10.9 176.6 3.96 22.5 9.4
Pandora JV 54.8 4.30 7.6 4.5 54.9 4.29 7.6 4.7
Loskop JV
3
10.1 4.04 1.3 0.8 10.1 4.04 1.3 0.8
Sudbury PGM JV
3
0.35 6.23 0.07 0.04 ––– –
Total Resource 1,212.0 4.65 181.1 100.9 1,183.1 4.67 177.6 99.0
Mineral Reserves (Total Proved & Probable)
1,5
30-Sep-2010 30-Sep-2009
Mt
3
3PGE+Au Pt Mt
3
3PGE+Au Pt
Area g/t Moz Moz g/t Moz Moz
Marikana 293.9 4.22 39.9 24.1 297.5 4.11 39.3 23.8
Limpopo
2
42.4 3.20 4.4 2.2 40.1 3.23 4.2 2.1
Limpopo Baobab shaft 9.4 3.16 1.0 0.5 9.4 3.16 1.0 0.5
Pandora JV 5.2 3.98 0.66 0.39 3.1 4.25 0.42 0.27
Total Reserve 350.8 4.07 45.9 27.1 350.1 3.98 44.8 26.6
Notes
1) All figures are reported on a Lonmin attributable basis, the relative proportions of ownership per project being shown in the Key Assumptions
outlined below.
2) Limpopo excludes Baobab shaft.
3) Loskop JV and Sudbury PGM JV excludes Rh, due to insufficient assays, and therefore 2PGE+Au is reported.
4) Resources are reported Inclusive of Reserves.
5) Quantities and grades have been rounded to one or two decimal places, therefore minor computational errors may occur. 19
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Key assumptions regarding the 2010 Lonmin Mineral Resource and Reserve Statement
• Mineral Resources are reported inclusive of Mineral Reserves. Resources that are converted to Reserves are also
included in the Mineral Resource statement; and
• All quoted Resources and Reserves include Lonmin’s attributable portion only. There have been no changes in the
percentage attributable to Lonmin during the year, aside from including the Sudbury resource. The following
percentages were applied to the total Mineral Resource and Reserve for each property:
Limpopo – Limpopo – Baobab, Sudbury
Marikana Dwaalkop JV Doornvlei, Zebediela Akanani Pandora Loskop PGM
Lonmin Attributable 82% 41% 82% 74% 34.85% 41% 50%
• Incwala Resources, Lonmin’s BEE partner, owns 18% of both Western Platinum Limited and Eastern Platinum
Limited, and 26% of Akanani;
• Limpopo includes Dwaalkop JV which is a Lonmin managed JV between Mvelaphanda Resources (50%) and
Western Platinum (50%);
• Pandora JV: Eastern Platinum Limited has an attributable interest of 42.5% in the Pandora JV together with Anglo
Platinum (42.5%), Mvelaphanda Resources (7.5%) and the Bapo Ba Mogale Mining Company (7.5%);
• Loskop JV: Western Platinum Limited has an attributable interest of 50% in the Loskop JV with Boynton
Investments;
• Sudbury PGM JV – PGE grades are stated as Pt+Pd+Au (3E). Through the JV, Lonmin acquires its pro rata share,
currently a nominal 50%, of the product from any PGE deposit developed on the participating properties. The
agreement is that Lonmin will be allocated its pro-rata share in PGEs and Vale will be allocated its pro-rata share in
Nickel, Copper, Cobalt, Gold and Silver. The exchange of metals will be governed by prevailing metal prices at the
time of the refined metal production; 
• Where grades are reported as 3PGE+Au these are a summation of the Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium and Gold
grades. Modelling of available assay information, obtained from drillhole core, indicates that the proportion of
3PGE+Au contained in 5PGE+Au, which includes Ruthenium and Iridium, is approximately as follows:
UG2 Merensky Platreef
Marikana 0.81 0.92 –
Limpopo 0.86 0.93 –
Akanani –– 0.95
Pandora 0.81 ––
• Where Nickel (Ni) and Copper (Cu) grade estimates are derived from sufficient reliable information for the various
Mineral Resources, they are reported as average grades in percent. These grades represent acid soluble
proportions. Acid soluble percentages of Ni and Cu are closely correlated to the metals present as sulphide minerals;
• Mineral Resources are reported as “in-situ” tonnes and grade and allow for geological losses such as faults, dykes,
potholes and Iron Rich Ultramafic Pegmatite (IRUP);
• Mineral Resources are estimated using a minimum true width of at least 90 cm and therefore may include some
diluting material;
• Proved and Probable Mineral Reserves are reported as tonnes and grade expected to be delivered to the mill, are
inclusive of diluting materials and allow for losses that may occur when the material is mined;
• Mine tailings dams are excluded from the above Mineral Resource summary;
• For economic studies and the determination of pay limits, consideration was made of both short and long term
revenue drivers. The following long term global assumptions were used: 
• Precious Metals (per Troy Ounce): Pt $1,800, Pd $500, Rh $3,000, Ru $200, Ir $450, Au $800;
• Base Metals (per metric tonne): Ni $15,000, Cu $5,000;
• Average exchange rate of US$1 to R8.28; and
• Dilutions are quoted as waste tonnes / waste + ore tonnes in percent.
Unless otherwise stated, the Lonmin Mineral Resources and Reserves estimates were prepared or supervised by
various persons employed by Lonmin. 20
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Basis of preparation
The financial information presented has been prepared on
the same basis and using the same accounting policies as
those which were used to prepare the financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009. There have been
no changes in accounting policy or new standards applied
which have had an effect on reported performance in
comparison to the prior year.
Overview
The 2010 financial year has been characterised by
significant recovery both in terms of the operational
performance of the business and the financial results.
A major feature of Lonmin’s performance has been
the increase in saleable metal-in-concentrate produced
from Marikana and Pandora’s underground ore. The
production of 691,447 Platinum ounces is 73,162 ounces
or 11.8% ahead of the prior year and has been achieved
by growth of 6.3% in underground tonnes mined,
essentially from Hossy and Saffy shafts, together with a
4.7% improvement in concentrator recovery rates and
better grades. The only operational disappointment was
the performance of the Number One furnace, which
suffered two unplanned shut downs. As a result of these,
and a rebuild earlier in the year, the Number One furnace
was down for 95 days during the year. This resulted in
sales being back end loaded and the necessity for some
toll refining and sales of concentrate. This gave rise to
increased costs and working capital, the latter being
much higher at year end than previously anticipated.
From a market perspective the year can be
considered in two halves. For the first half of 2010 the
recovery in metal prices continued the strong growth rates
experienced in the second half of 2009. In the second half
of 2010, however, pricing stabilised. Nonetheless, pricing
has been strong in comparison to the prior year and this
has contributed $471 million to operating profit.
Foreign exchange has had a material impact on the
results for the year with the Rand strengthening from
R9.00/$ to R7.45/$ in 2010. This has given rise to a net
adverse exchange impact of $185 million. 
When looking at costs, the period can also be
considered in two halves. For the first half of 2010 Lonmin
benefited from the restructuring programme which was
implemented in March 2009. This resulted in savings 
of $41 million in the ongoing business and $27 million
from the closure of opencast and Limpopo operations.
The second half of 2010 has seen an increase in South
African operating costs of $123 million versus the first half
of the year. This is driven in part by the increase in tonnes
hoisted and milled in the second half with costs increasing
by $64 million in these areas. However, costs were also
impacted by the resumption of opencast mining at
Marikana costing $21 million, and processing cost
increases of $27 million (with $15 million relating to
additional toll fees and $7 million on furnace repair costs). 
Turning to the full year, as well as the toll refining and
smelter costs, the introduction of the new Mining Royalty
at $5 million and increased share-based payments of 
$5 million were also factors in the year on year increase.
Adjusting for the unexpected costs associated with the
Number One furnace and the incremental royalty and
share-based payment costs means underlying costs rose
by 7%. This is marginally above the latest published South
African PPI figure of 6.8%. 
During 2010 the Group provided a loan of £200 million
($304 million) to Shanduka to facilitate its acquisition of a
majority holding in Incwala buying out all previous HDSA
shareholders with the exception of the Bapo Ba Mogale
who continue to hold 2.85%. This resulted in a cash
outflow of $285 million in the year. To support this
transaction an equity placing was carried out which raised
$229 million net of costs. The Group therefore funded 
$56 million from its own resources as well as rolling over
some loans. This, together with the adverse working
capital effects of the extended Number One furnace
downtime, has led to net debt of $375 million which is
higher than planned at the outset of the year.
Analysis of results
Income Statement
The $321 million movement between the underlying
operating profit of $228 million for the year ended 
30 September 2010 and the underlying operating loss of
$93 million for the year ended 30 September 2009 is given
below. This substantial increase in profitability reflects a
high proportion of price increases flowing through to the
bottom line as a result of good cost control and is despite
the significant adverse impact of a stronger Rand.
$m
Year to 30 September 2009 reported 
operating loss (142)
Year to 30 September 2009 special items 49
Year to 30 September 2009 underlying 
operating loss (93)
PGM price 471
PGM volume 45
PGM mix (8)
Base metals 15
Revenue changes 523
Cost changes (including foreign exchange 
impact of $185m) (202)
Year to 30 September 2010 underlying
operating profit 228
Year to 30 September 2010 special items (25)
Year to 30 September 2010 reported 
operating profit 203
THE 2010 FINANCIAL YEAR HAS BEEN CHARACTERISED BY
SIGNIFICANT RECOVERY BOTH IN TERMS OF THE OPERATIONAL
PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS AND THE FINANCIAL RESULTS. “THE COST PER PGM OUNCE PRODUCED INCREASED
BY ONLY 2.2% DEMONSTRATING THE BENEFITS OF 
THE MANY OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS AND COST
REDUCTION PROGRAMMES INITIATED DURING THE 
LAST TWO YEARS.” Alan Ferguson
Chief Financial Officer
21 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Revenue
As noted in the introduction the PGM pricing environment
has improved significantly since this time last year and the
average prices achieved on the key metals sold is shown
below:
Year ended Year ended
30.09.10 30.09.09
$/oz $/oz
Platinum 1,525 1,086
Palladium 448 224
Rhodium 2,308 1,571
PGM basket 1,139 786
Price gains added $471 million in revenue. Average
platinum and palladium prices increased by 40% and
100% over the previous year, respectively contributing
$301 million and $70 million to the PGM price gain. 
The improvement in these metals has been driven by a
recovery of automotive and industrial demand, as well as
new ETFs which were launched in the US early in 2010.
The rhodium price increased by 47% mainly due to
automotive demand and added $78 million to revenue
with the remaining $22 million of price gain coming from
other PGMs. The price improvement for all the key metals
occurred mainly in the first half of 2010 and since March
prices remained relatively directionless with the overall
PGM basket price achieved ranging from $1,100 per
ounce to $1,250 per ounce. This was largely due to the
consistency of platinum with prices achieved ranging from
$1,500 to $1,675 per ounce in the second half. Rhodium,
which peaked at c.$2,700 per ounce in April and May, fell
back to $2,200 per ounce by September. 
It should be noted that whilst the US Dollar basket
price has increased by 45% over 2009 in Rand terms the
basket price increased by only 22% due to the stronger
Rand.
PGM sales volume for the year to 30 September 2010
at 1,325,390 ounces was 56,472 PGM ounces or 4.5%
up on 2009 despite the loss of some 79,000 PGM ounces
from the suspension of mining at Limpopo and closure of
opencast operations. The increase has been achieved
largely through the ramp up of activity at Middelkraal
(Hossy and Saffy) and good improvements in grade and
recovery.
Revenue fell by an estimated $62 million due to the
reduction in volumes at Limpopo and opencast however
this was offset by a $107 million revenue improvement
from underground operations resulting in a net revenue
improvement of $45 million. The mix of metals sold
resulted in an adverse impact to revenue of $8 million
mainly due to a lower proportion of Platinum due to metal-
in-process inventory timing differences. Base metal
revenue was up $15 million due to a 24% increase in
Nickel prices. Total revenue for 2010 of $1,585 million is
$523 million higher than 2009.
Cost changes
Total underlying costs in US Dollar terms increased by
$202 million mainly due to an adverse foreign exchange
movement of $185 million due to the strengthening of the
Rand compared to the prior year. A track of the cost
changes is shown in the table below:
$m
Year ended 30 September 2009 
– underlying costs 1,155
Increase / (decrease)
Marikana underground mining 96
Concentrating and processing 34
Limpopo operations (8)
Overheads (11)
Operating costs 111
Pandora ore purchases (4)
Metal stock movement (118)
Foreign exchange 185
Depreciation and amortisation 28
Cost changes (including foreign exchange) 202
Year ended 30 September 2010 
– underlying costs 1,357 22
FINANCIAL REVIEW (continued)
Marikana underground mining costs increased in the
period by $96 million or 14%, as a result of increased
production, the 10% wage increase incurred in the year,
increased development costs and a 26% escalation in
electricity costs due to an increase in tariffs. Cost per
tonne was up 8%, whilst cost per saleable PGM
produced was only up 2% due to better grades and
recoveries. Marikana opencast volumes increased by 
41% over 2009, however, due to new contractual
arrangements, and the fact we are now mining different
pits, costs did not increase.
Concentrator and processing costs were adverse by
$34 million. This was due to incremental toll fees and rebuild
costs ($22 million in total) following the furnace leaks,
together with increased maintenance spend and escalation
effects, in particular electricity costs as described above.
Mining was suspended at Limpopo at the end of
December 2008, and thus normal operating costs were
only incurred in the first quarter of financial year 2009.
Costs in 2010 are $8 million lower with only care and
maintenance costs incurred.
Overheads were $11 million favourable year on year
with savings from restructuring, training, and pre-feasibility
studies offsetting salary escalation, increased share-based
payments and costs of the new Mining Royalty which
added $5 million to the cost base and came into effect 
on 1 March 2010.
There was a $118 million favourable impact on
operating profit, excluding exchange impacts, of metal
stock movements. Due to the furnace issues in 2010
stock levels are higher at the year end than previously
anticipated, up 16% on the prior year, and, together with
cost escalation and mix, the Rand stock value has
increased 34% as a result.
Foreign exchange has been a very significant factor with
a $185 million adverse impact. This mainly arose from the
translation of costs into US Dollars with the effective Rand
exchange rate strengthening by 18.5% to give an adverse
variance of $192 million. In addition the translation of Rand
monetary working capital balances gave rise to an adverse
impact of $32 million. The strengthening Rand, however,
increased the US Dollar value of stocks held generating a
favourable $39 million which partially offset the above.
Depreciation and amortisation in 2010 is $28 million
higher than 2009. Depreciation is calculated on a units of
production basis, spreading costs in relation to proved
and probable reserves and so the increase in production
in the year resulted in higher depreciation. Furthermore,
during 2010 the depreciation of assets was calculated
using the reserves identified in the 2009 Accounts, being
the latest known position, and as these were lower than
the previous year this resulted in an increase in the
depreciation rate per unit of production. It is worth noting
that the 2010 reserves have increased marginally over 2009.
Cost per PGM ounce
The cost per PGM ounce produced for 2010 was R6,773.
This was an increase of only 2.2% compared to 2009 and
has essentially been achieved by containing cost
escalations, increasing underground production and
through improvements in head grade and recovery. If we
adjust for the toll and furnace rebuild costs incurred in the
year and assume the related ounces were processed
through the Process Division then it is estimated that the
C1 cost per ounce produced would have risen by less
than 1%. This clearly demonstrates the benefits of the
many operational improvements and cost reduction
programmes initiated during the last two years.
Further details of unit costs analysis can be found in
the Operating Statistics. 
Special operating costs
In 2010 special operating costs of $25 million were charged.
The move of the operational headquarters from London to
South Africa cost $9 million. This move will be completed in
the last quarter of this calendar year. Fees of $5 million were
incurred in relation to the transaction under which Shanduka
acquired a controlling interest in Incwala Resources (Pty)
Limited (Incwala) and became Lonmin’s BEE partner. The
strategic decision to decommission the Merensky furnace
in order to leverage certain of its infrastructure for the new
pyromet furnace has resulted in a $10 million impairment
charge and, in addition, a $2 million charge was taken on
the write-down of houses. These costs were offset, to a
limited extent, by a $1 million credit on the final winding 
up of defined benefit scheme pension obligations.
In the year ended 30 September 2009, $49 million of
special costs were incurred on restructuring together with
the abnormal operating costs for Limpopo operations
subsequent to the announcement of closure, and the cost
of the restructuring programme itself.
Impairment of available for sale financial assets
The Group holds listed investments which are marked 
to market. In the six months to 31 March 2009, given 
the depressed financial markets, the value of these
investments fell below original acquisition cost and this
resulted in a $39 million impairment which was taken 
to the income statement, effectively rebasing the cost 
of acquisition. In the second half of 2009 there was a 
$9 million recovery in value and this gain was recorded 
in the statement of comprehensive income. In the year to
30 September 2010 the value of investments declined by
$6 million, largely reversing the gain made in the second
half of 2009, and this loss was also recognised in the
statement of comprehensive income. 
Summary of net finance income / (costs)
Year ended 30 September
2010 2009
$m $m
Net bank interest and fees (43) (20)
Capitalised interest payable 
and fees 43 23
Exchange 1 (20)
Other – (2)
Underlying net finance 
income / (costs) 1 (19)
Impact of raising share capital 2 (73)
HDSA receivable 14 0
HDSA derivative 12 0
Net finance income / (costs) 29 (92)
Net bank interest and fees is $23 million higher than
the comparative period. The key reasons for the increase
were a $10 million increase in bank interest expense,
mainly reflecting the higher margins charged in the more
challenging credit environment, and higher pricing on
Rand debt, together with incremental amortisation of fees
of $12 million subsequent to the refinancing and waiver of
covenants agreed at the end of financial year 2009.
In 2010 exchange on net debt was broadly neutral
with a loss of $7 million on the revolving credit facility in
South Africa, which is now Rand denominated and “IMPROVING OUR EFFICIENCIES AND RECOVERIES
WILL ENSURE THAT OUTPUT IS OF THE HIGHEST
QUALITY METALS AT THE LOWEST POSSIBLE COST.”
MALUSI MKHIZE – SENIOR MANAGER, BASE METAL REFINERY (BMR)
Malusi joined Lonmin in 2008 as an Automation Manager at the Base Metal
Refinery (BMR). In August 2010, Malusi was appointed Senior Manager
responsible for the BMR. Malusi’s background is in electrical engineering
and technology management and he has extensive experience in introducing
new processes and systems. 
The core focus of Malusi and his team is in improving PGM efficiencies
and recoveries in a safe environment, whilst removing the two base metals,
nickel and copper, from the matte they receive from the smelter, so that 
a high quality PGM concentrate is sent to the Precious Metal Refinery. 
During the March 2010 BMR stock take, the BMR completed a
successful plant control system upgrade which helps ensure efficient and
stable plant operations. Malusi and his Automation team played a significant
role in ensuring that the project was completed safely and in time for
production to recommence on schedule.
The BMR team has identified a number of other areas where they can
increase efficiency and improve recoveries. These include close monitoring
of inventory in the process, continuous improvement of measuring systems
and assays to improve Metals accounting, managing plant availability,
implementing an integrated security model to minimise theft of metal and
improving the quality and reducing losses of copper and nickel. 
All these actions require integrated management plans to be put in place 
by Malusi and his management team.
CASE STUDY: BMR
23 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 24
FINANCIAL REVIEW (continued)
supports South African working capital requirements,
offsetting an $8 million gain on Sterling cash held temporarily
after the equity placement pending completion of the loan
facility for Shanduka. The volatility and significant weakening
of the Rand against the US Dollar at times during 2009 had
a marked impact on Rand cash balances held for operational
and funding purposes. This resulted in $23 million of
exchange losses on net debt which was the main
component of the $20 million charge in the prior year. 
In 2009 the Group carried out a Rights Issue which
resulted in $73 million of finance costs being charged.
This comprised $33 million arising from taking forward
currency hedges to fix the US Dollar value from the
Sterling receipts, $4 million foreign exchange losses on
proceeds received in advance and a $36 million loss
which arose because the Rights Issue had to be treated
as a derivative under IAS 32. Whilst an amendment to the
Standard changed the position for companies raising
capital in currencies other than their functional currency,
this was not adopted in time for the 2009 Accounts. In
2010 Lonmin carried out an equity placing. This is not
covered by the amendment to IAS 32 which is only
applicable to Rights Issues. This transaction, therefore, again
gave rise to a derivative under IFRS and this resulted in the
recognition of a $2 million gain which is offset in reserves. 
The HDSA receivable, being the Sterling loan to
Shanduka, increased by $14 million with $11 million of
foreign exchange gains recognised in addition to $3 million
of accrued interest. The fair value of the associated HDSA
derivative increased by $12 million largely due to changes
in Lonmin’s share price.
The total net finance income of $29 million for the year
ended 30 September 2010 was therefore $121 million
favourable compared to the year ended 30 September 2009.
Share of profit of equity accounted investments
The share of profit from the associate and joint venture
has increased by $7 million to $8 million for the year
ended 30 September 2010. This was mainly due to
improved profitability at Pandora.
Profit / (loss) before tax and earnings
Reported profit before tax for the year ended 30 September
2010 at $240 million is $512 million better than the prior
year. This increase consists of a $321 million improvement
in underlying operating profit, a reduction of $24 million in
special operating costs, a $39 million favourable variance
on impairment of available for sale assets, a $121 million
benefit on net finance costs and a $7 million improvement
in the Group’s share of profit from the associate and 
joint venture. 
Reported tax for the current period was a charge 
of $118 million although this is after exchange losses 
on the translation of Rand denominated tax balances 
of $37 million and a $1 million charge on special costs.
Therefore, the underlying tax charge is $80 million with 
an effective rate of 34%. The underlying charge reflects
deferred tax charges of $78 million, largely due to
accelerated capital allowances with only $2 million current
tax in the period. The current tax related to secondary tax
charges in the year due to the dividends paid to non-
controlling interests. Corporation tax was offset by losses
and unredeemed capital allowances brought forward. 
Profit for the year ended 30 September 2010
attributable to equity shareholders amounted to $112 million
(2009 – loss $285 million) and the earnings per share was
56.9 cents compared with a loss per share of 163.7 cents
in 2009. Underlying earnings per share, being earnings
excluding special items, amounted to 70.2 cents (2009 –
underlying loss per share 59.2 cents). 
Balance sheet
A reconciliation of the movement in equity shareholders’
funds for the year ended 30 September 2010 is given
below:
$m
Equity shareholders’ funds as at 
1 October 2009 as reported 2,417
Prior year adjustment on deferred tax (61)
Equity shareholders’ funds as at 
1 October 2009 as restated 2,356
Total comprehensive income and expense 107
Net proceeds from equity placing 229
Movement on derivative liability on equity placing (2)
Transfer to reserve for own shares 14
Share-based payments and shares issued 5
Equity shareholders’ funds as at 
30 September 2010 2,709
The prior year adjustment on deferred tax represents
the equity shareholders’ share of deferred tax liabilities 
on non-current assets which were not recognised on
transition to IFRS in 2006. There are no cash implications
of this adjustment.
Equity shareholders’ funds during the period increased
by $107 million due to the recognition of $112 million
attributable profit offset by a $5 million loss from other
movements in comprehensive income, which was mainly
the marking to market of available for sale financial assets.
The equity placing raised a net $229 million which
increased share capital and share premium. The derivative
gain on the income statement (covered under net finance
income / (costs) above) reversed through reserves
creating a $2 million charge resulting in no impact on
reserves at the end of the year. A transfer of $14 million
occurred during 2010 from share-based payment
accruals to the reserve for own shares as the Directors
opted to satisfy all future award schemes with equity
which included a $5 million charge to this point. A further 
$4 million of share-based payment charges were
subsequently recognised directly in equity increasing the
reserve for own shares and $1 million was recognised on
the issuance of shares for share schemes. 
Net debt at $375 million has increased by $262 million
since the 2009 year end. Issues with the smelter led to a
significant back end loading of sales, toll refining and the
sale of concentrate together with a stock build-up. This
has had a significant impact on working capital. Debtors
and stock are estimated to be $180 million higher than
would have been the case under normal operations, a
large portion of which has already been converted into
cash as at the date of this report.  25
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Gearing, calculated on net borrowings attributable to
the Group divided by those attributable net borrowings
and the equity interests outstanding at the balance 
sheet date, was 10% at September 2010 and 2% at 
30 September 2009.
Cash flow
The following table summarises the main components of
the cash flow during the year:
Year ended 30 September
2010 2009
$m $m
Operating profit / (loss) 203 (142)
Depreciation, amortisation 
and impairment 134 94
Changes in working capital (218) 110
Other 14 1
Cash flow generated from 
operations 133 63
Interest and finance costs (41) (31)
Tax (12) (48)
Trading cash inflow / (outflow) 80 (16)
Capital expenditure (261) (234)
Dividends paid to non-controlling
interests (22) (21)
Free cash outflow (203) (271)
Investment in joint venture (3) (5)
Net proceeds from equity issuance 229 462
HDSA financing (285) –
Other shares issued 1 16
Equity dividends received – 3
Cash outflow (261) 205
Opening net debt (113) (303)
Foreign exchange 1 (27)
Unamortised fees (2) 12
Closing net debt (375) (113)
Trading cash inflow / (outflow) 
(cents per share) 40.7c (9.2)c
Free cash outflow (cents per share) (103.2)c (155.6)c
Cash flow generated from operations in the year ended
30 September 2010 was positive, at $133 million, despite
being impacted by working capital outflows of $218 million.
Debtors increased by $138 million in 2010 as a result of 
a back end loaded sales profile due to the issues at the
smelter. This also led to a higher year end inventory of
$125 million. In total it is estimated the smelter problems
have resulted in increased stocks and debtors of some
$180 million. Compared to the prior year, cash flow
generated from operations was up $70 million. Whilst
there was a $345 million improvement in reported
operating profit, this was offset by a $328 million turnaround
in the working capital position. Operating profit was also
impacted by $40 million higher depreciation, amortisation
and impairment and a $10 million movement in relation 
to share-based payments.
Trading cash inflow for 2010 amounted to $80 million
against a $16 million outflow in 2009. The cash flow on
interest and finance costs increased due to the agreement,
at the end of the 2009 financial year, to pay arrangement
fees on the renegotiation of bank facilities. The tax
payment in 2009 represented the final payment in respect
of 2008 profits and a limited outflow of secondary taxes 
in respect of the dividend. Following the difficult trading
conditions in 2009, tax payments in 2010 have been 
de-minimis and relate to secondary taxes on minority
dividends and limited payments for corporation tax, partly
relating to earlier years. The trading cash inflow per share
was 40.7 cents for the year ended 30 September 2010
against a 9.2 cents outflow in the prior year.
Capital expenditure cash flow at $261 million was 
$27 million above the prior period and is within market
guidance despite the significant strengthening of the Rand
in the second half. In Mining the expenditure incurred was
focused on development of the operations at Hossy and
Saffy, equipping and development at K4, investment in
sub-declines at K3 and Rowland and developing Newman
Merensky opencast. In the Process Division spend was
focused at the concentrators. We continue to monitor the
balance between the need to invest for future production
with the requirement to maintain a strong balance sheet
and provide a return to shareholders.
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests in the year
at $22 million were essentially the same as in 2009 and
reflect the minimum payment required to enable Incwala
to service its loan facilities.
Free cash outflow at $203 million was $68 million
favourable to the prior year with the free cash outflow per
share of 103.2 cents improving by 52.4 cents. Whilst the
reported free cash flow was negative at $203 million, it is
estimated that this was impacted by c.$195 million of
timing differences due to the smelter, including the
payment of toll fees, and in addition there was a net
outflow, after equity placing proceeds, of $56 million in
connection with the provision of finance to Shanduka. 
Dividends
The Board’s new policy on dividends is to recommend
each year a final ordinary dividend at a rate which the
Board expects to at least be maintained in subsequent
years, or possibly increased over time. This final dividend
will be supplemented by special dividends when our
reported earnings and projected cash requirements allow.
Clearly the combination of metal prices, the Rand to US
Dollar exchange rate and capital expenditure plans will be
key factors to be considered when making this decision.
Given this new policy, the Directors believe it is
appropriate to resume the payment of dividends and
propose a dividend of 15.0 cents per share for the year.
Financial risk management
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the
availability of funds to meet business needs (liquidity risk),
the risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions
(credit risk), fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange
rates and commodity prices. The Group also has a
number of contingent liabilities.
These factors are the critical ones to take into
consideration when addressing Going Concern. As is
clear from the following paragraphs, we are in a strong
position. There are, however, factors which are outside
the control of management, specifically, volatility in the
Rand / US Dollar exchange rate and PGM commodity
prices, which can have a significant impact on the
business. 26
FINANCIAL REVIEW (continued)
Liquidity risk
The policy on overall liquidity is to ensure that the Group
has sufficient funds to facilitate all ongoing operations. 
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of
equity funding and bank borrowings. The Group’s
philosophy on this is to maintain a low level of financial
gearing given the exposure the business has to fluctuations
in PGM commodity prices and the Rand to US Dollar
exchange rate.
As part of the annual budgeting and long term planning
process, the Group’s cash flow forecast is reviewed and
approved by the Board. The cash flow forecast is
amended for any material changes identified during the
year, for example material acquisitions and disposals.
Where funding requirements are identified from the cash
flow forecast, appropriate measures are taken to ensure
these requirements can be satisfied. Factors taken into
consideration are:
• the size and nature of the requirement;
• preferred sources of finance applying key criteria of
cost, commitment, availability, security / covenant
conditions;
• recommended counterparties, fees and market
conditions; and
• covenants, guarantees and other financial
commitments.
During the course of the year, we extended the 
R1.75 billion revolving credit facility which now matures 
in November 2011 (previously this was a multi-currency
$175 million facility which matured in November 2010). 
In addition, as previously noted, all EBITDA covenants at
March 2010 were waived as well as the net debt to
EBITDA covenant at September 2010. Our relationship
banks continue to show confidence in our business and
we expect this support to continue.
As at 30 September 2009, we had net debt of $113
million. At 30 September 2010, net debt had increased to
$375 million, comprising $533 million of drawn down
facilities net of $148 million of cash and equivalents and
$10 million of unamortised bank fees. 
Lonmin has $888 million of committed facilities in
place. The main elements of these facilities can be
summarised as follows:
• a $250 million revolving credit facility in the UK, which
will expire in November 2012;
• a $130 million amortising loan facility in the UK, which
will expire in November 2012. The amortisation of this
facility consists of $20 million payable every six
months, which started in July 2010, with a final
repayment of $50 million in November 2012;
• the margin on both these facilities is 400 basis points
up to 31 March 2011, and will thereafter be
determined by reference to net debt / EBITDA and will
be in the range 250bps to 400bps;
• the key covenants in these facilities include a
maximum net debt / EBITDA ratio of 4.0 times, the
next test being in March 2011; a minimum EBITDA /
net interest ratio of 4.0 times, tested in September
2010; and a maximum net debt / tangible net worth
ratio 0.7 times;
• in South Africa, we have secured an extension to the
maturity of the existing R1.75 billion revolving credit
facility to November 2011; 
• in addition, in South Africa, we have a $255 million
term loan (previously a $300 million term loan which
amortised by $45 million during the financial year)
which expires in mid 2013; and
• key covenants in both these South African facilities 
are consistent and are tested at the WPL / EPL level.
These include a minimum EBITDA / net interest ratio
of 3.5 times, and a maximum net debt / EBITDA ratio
of 2.75 times; these covenants are to be tested on a
rolling 12 month basis every 6 months on 31 March
and 30 September. We successfully secured a
covenant waiver for the net debt / EBITDA ratio at 
31 March 2010 and 30 September 2010 and the
EBITDA / net interest ratio at 31 March 2010 in both
the R1.75 billion revolving credit facility and the 
$255 million term loan. 
The effective funding rate was circa 6% for the
financial year.
Credit risk
Banking counterparties
Banking counterparty credit risk is managed by spreading
financial transactions across an approved list of
counterparties of high credit quality. Banking counterparties
are approved by the Board.
Trade receivables
The Group is exposed to significant trade receivable credit
risk through the sale of PGM metals to a limited group of
customers.
This risk is managed as follows:
• aged analysis is performed on trade receivable
balances and reviewed on a monthly basis;
• credit ratings are obtained on any new customers and
the credit ratings of existing customers are monitored
on an ongoing basis;
• credit limits are set for customers; and
• trigger points and escalation procedures are clearly
defined.
HDSA receivables
HDSA receivables are secured on the HDSAs
shareholding in Incwala.
Interest rate risk
Currently, the bulk of our outstanding borrowings are in
US Dollars and South African Rand and at floating rates of
interest. Given current market rates, this position is not
considered to be high risk at this point in time. This
position is kept under constant review in conjunction with
the liquidity policy outlined above and the future funding
requirements of the business.
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s operations are essentially based in South
Africa and the majority of the revenue stream is in US
Dollars. However, the bulk of the Group’s operating costs
and taxes are paid in Rand. Most of the cash received in
South Africa is in US Dollars. Most of the Group’s funding
sources are in US Dollars.
The Group’s reporting currency remains the US Dollar
and the share capital of the Company is based in US
Dollars.
Our current policy is not to hedge Rand / US Dollar
currency exposures and, therefore, fluctuations in the
Rand to US Dollar exchange rate can have a significant
impact on the Group’s results. A strengthening of the
Rand against the US Dollar has an adverse effect on
profits due to the majority of operating costs being paid 
in Rand.  Contingent liabilities
As a result of Shanduka acquiring the majority of the
shares held in Incwala, guarantees provided by Lonmin 
in respect of the former shareholders have now largely
been extinguished and contingent liabilities have fallen
to $25 million.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Group faces many risks in the operation of its
business. The Group’s strategy takes into account known
risks, but risks will exist of which we are currently
unaware.
Alan Ferguson
Chief Financial Officer
12 November 2010
27
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
The approximate effects on the Group’s results of a
10% movement in the Rand to US Dollar 2010 financial
year average exchange rate would be as follows:
EBIT ± $118m
Profit for the year ± $70m
EPS (cents) ± 35.4c
These sensitivities are based on 2010 prices, costs
and volumes and assume all other variables remain
constant. They are estimated calculations only.
Commodity price risk
Our policy is not to hedge commodity price exposure on
PGMs, except gold, and therefore any change in prices
will have a direct effect on the Group’s trading results. 
For base metals and gold, hedging is undertaken
where the Board determines that it is in the Group’s
interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows. The
policy is to hedge up to a maximum of 75% of the future
cash flows from the sale of these products looking
forward over the next 12 to 24 months. The Group has
undertaken a number of hedging contracts on Nickel,
Copper and Gold sales using forward contracts.
The approximate effects on the Group’s results of a
10% movement in the 2010 financial year average metal
prices achieved for Platinum (Pt) ($1,525 per ounce) and
Rhodium (Rh) ($2,308 per ounce) would be as follows:
Pt Rh
EBIT ± $108m ± $23m
Profit for the year ± $64m ± $13m
EPS (cents) ± 32.3c ± 6.8c
These sensitivities are based on 2010 costs and
volumes and assume all other variables remain constant.
They are estimated calculations only.
Fiscal risk
The South African Government introduced a new Mining
Royalty on 1 March 2010. The Royalty is calculated based
on a percentage of Gross Sales. The percentage is
calculated using a formula depending on whether the
Company sells concentrate, ore or refined products. The
Royalty percentage is subject to a minimum rate of 0.5%. 
The formula for refined products is:
% of Gross Sales = ( Adjusted EBIT* x100) + 0.5
Gross Sales x 12.5
* Adjusted EBIT for the purpose of the Royalty calculation is
statutory EBIT adjusted for, amongst other things, depreciation
and a capital deduction based on Mining Tax rules.
The Mining Royalty charge for this financial year
amounted to $5 million. 28
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
This section explains the Group’s internal control environment, how we assess its effectiveness and how we identify,
evaluate and manage risk. There is also a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, the
consequences if these are not managed, and the mitigations currently relied upon by management.
Internal controls
The Company complied throughout the year under review, and continues to comply with, the provisions of the
Combined Code on internal controls and the relevant parts of the Turnbull and Smith guidance. While the Board has
overall responsibility for the Company’s system of internal control, management is responsible for implementing agreed
Board policies. It is important to recognise that systems of internal control can only be designed to manage, rather than
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and cannot provide absolute assurance against material
mis-statement or loss.
Key features of the Company’s internal control framework include:
• a schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s decision;
• detailed terms of reference for the Board Committees;
• a Code of Business Ethics and external whistle-blowing hotline;
• Human Resources policies which establish a consistent set of values and standards for managing employees and
contractors throughout the group;
• a document summarising the delegation of authority cascade from the Board to the various levels of Group
management;
• documented policies and procedures for certain key group wide matters, including treasury, capital investment, 
risk management, human capital and procurement, supported by local policies and procedures as necessary; 
• the Group strategy and Life of Business Plan, supported by the mineral resource database and model, and annual
technical and financial budgets;
• systems including the SAP enterprise resource planning system, a bespoke metallurgical tracking system and a
detailed mine planning system;
• management reporting against plans, budgets and forecasts;
• external audit and other assurance, including a biennial audit of mineral reserves and resources; and
• internal audit and other in-house review processes including control self assessments.
To ensure the Audit and Risk Committee has full oversight of the work of the internal audit function, the Head 
of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, with a joint reporting line with effect from 
1 October to the CFO (previously it was to the VP , Treasury and Risk). The Audit and Risk Committee meets regularly
with both the internal and external auditors to discuss internal control and other matters arising from the assurance
process.
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial,
operational and compliance controls and systems for the identification and management of risk. This task is carried out
on behalf of the Board by the Audit and Risk Committee, which has undertaken a review of the internal control
environment following the year end. To do so, the Committee assessed the following:
• responses provided by c.90 senior managers in management confirmation letters completed at the end of the
financial year and designed to provide assurance on the effectiveness of internal controls and compliance with
Group policies and procedures;
• a number of external parties providing assurance to different parts of the business on its control environment;
• progress made by management in identifying and mitigating the key risks facing the Group;
• routine management reporting on business performance and results; and
• reports provided to the Audit and Risk Committee by both internal and external auditors and other specialist
advisors in relation to the Group’s risk and control environments. 
Action has been, or is being, taken where necessary to address as far as practicable any significant failings and
weaknesses identified in the reviews of effectiveness of internal controls whether they are financial, operational or
compliance. 29
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Risk management
We have an integrated approach to risk management and internal controls to ensure that our review and assessment of
risk is used to inform the internal audit process and the design of the internal controls environment. The risk management
process, which has been in place throughout the year under review and to the date of approval of the accounts,
identifies, evaluates, manages and monitors the significant risks facing the business. The Audit and Risk Committee
regularly reviews this process and monitors its effectiveness on behalf of the Board, in line with the guidance appended
to the Combined Code.
The approach taken is systematic and combines both a “top-down” and a “bottom-up” review and approval
process. All senior managers are responsible for managing and monitoring risks in their area of responsibility that could
impede the achievement of business objectives and these are recorded in a risk register. It is mandatory for this process
to take place at least once a year but in practice, reviews take place more frequently in most business areas. For each
risk identified, management assesses the root causes, consequences and mitigating controls in relation to the risk. An
assessment is then made of the maximum risk exposure and the effectiveness of the controls in place to mitigate that
risk. A numerical scoring matrix is used to derive a risk score and priority after taking account of mitigating controls.
Where the risk score and priority remains high after mitigating controls are taken into account, action plans are devised
to reduce these risks further and progress against these plans is regularly reviewed. Each of the business areas is
supported by an Operational Risk Champion who co-ordinates all risk management activity in that business area and
ensures that actions are implemented appropriately. Applying this risk management process across all business activities
ensures all risks are measured, monitored and reported on a consistent basis.
Due to the nature of our operations, a significant part of our risk register relates to safety, environmental and social
matters. To further enhance our focus on such matters, each business area has dedicated personnel responsible for
managing environmental and safety matters respectively, including monitoring the progress of action plans recorded in
the risk register. In this way, we ensure accountability and responsibility for these matters remains with the operational
management team.
The principal risks faced by the Company are considered and reviewed regularly by the Board. Risks specifically
relating to safety, environmental and social matters are reviewed separately and in more detail by the Safety &
Sustainability Committee, which then provides views on the management of these risks to the Board.
Lonmin groups risks into strategic, financial, external and operational risks. The key risks faced by Lonmin, based on
our current understanding, along with their potential impact and the mitigation strategies developed are detailed on the
following pages. There is no implied ranking in the order of disclosure. The Company’s strategy takes into account these
known risks, but risks will exist of which we are currently unaware and the severity or probability of the occurrence of
known risks may change from time to time.
Lonmin Plc Board
Safety & Sustainability
Committee
Executive Committee
Integrated strategic, business and operational risk management
Identification & Evaluation Mitigation Reporting KPIs
Capital Projects Operating Units Support Functions
Audit & Risk Committee 30
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
Strategic Risk
Impact – Ineffective or poorly executed strategy fails to create shareholder value or fails to meet shareholder expectations.
Risk Impact Mitigation
Investment and business Shareholder value not optimised. Review of strategy at Board level on an annual basis 
decisions fail to deliver with monthly monitoring of operational and financial 
shareholder value performance. Consistent investment appraisal
process applied to new capital spend. Opportunities
have been taken to restructure the business to
maximise shareholder value. 
Access to a secure Could impact on the ability to run current Measurement of water usage and water saving 
supply of water* operations and deliver future expansion plans. initiatives implemented. Plans aligned with long term
strategy of the Company. Water supplies secured for
key areas of the business and strategies developed 
to support expansion plans. Active participation in
relevant Industry Bodies.
Access to a secure Could impact on the ability to run current Measurement of energy usage and energy saving 
supply of electricity* operations and deliver future expansion plans. initiatives implemented. Load shed and contractual
agreements in place with Eskom (SA energy
supplier). Continuity planning in place and additional
supply for key areas to be secured accordingly 
e.g. additional power supply secured for the new 
K4 mining shaft. Active participation in relevant
Industry Bodies.
* see Sustainable Development Review for more detailed disclosure.
Financial Risk
Impact – Asset performance and / or excessive leverage results in the Group not being able to meet its financial obligations.
Risk Impact Mitigation
Foreign exchange risk Significant fluctuations in exchange rates to Current policy is not to hedge this currency pair. 
(specifically US Dollar/ which the Group is exposed could have a There is a long term correlation between US Dollar/
SA Rand) material adverse effect on the Group’s SA Rand and PGM basket price, although this can 
financial condition. dislocate over the shorter term.
Commodity price risk Significant fluctuations in commodity prices Current policy is not to hedge PGM basket prices. 
to which the Group is exposed could have There is a long term correlation between US Dollar/
a material adverse effect on the Group’s SA Rand and PGM basket price, although this can 
financial condition. dislocate over the shorter term. Hedging of base
metals and gold is undertaken under the remit of 
the Price and Risk Committee.
Uncompetitive gross Could have a material adverse effect on the High cost per ounce operations put on care and 
and/or unit costs Group’s competitive position and future maintenance. Cost base was significantly reduced in 
financial condition. 2009 and we continue to monitor this closely. Clear
understanding of our competitive position and
significant focus on productivity improvement plans.
Balanced scorecard measures incentivise cost
control and productivity. Introduced additional cost
controls such as the “Bill of Materials” which better
aligns usage of consumables with production.
Access to cost The Group may not be able to obtain cost All debt matures beyond FY11. Key covenants in 
effective funding** effective funding when required which banking lines constantly monitored through rolling 
could impact on the ability of the Group cash flow forecasts. Regular contact with our 
to meet its liabilities as they fall due. banking group. Financing for the Shanduka
transaction facilitated by an equity placing.
** see Financial Review for more detailed disclosure. 31
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
External Risk
Impact – The political, industry or market environment may negatively impact on the Group’s ability to independently
manage and grow its business.
Risk Impact Mitigation
Changing political The occurrence of such a change could Ongoing dialogue with government at all relevant 
landscape in any of the have a material adverse effect on the levels and other key stakeholders. Effective 
countries in which we Group’s future operational performance communications programmes with key stakeholders. 
operate negatively and financial condition. Many PGM mining companies would face the 
impacts the business same issue.
PGM supply & demand Significant changes to either/both the Gathering market information from customers and 
volatility demand and supply side in the PGM other sources. Monitoring market segments and 
industry (e.g. product substitution or trends in the industry. Continue to support initiatives 
supply side constraints) could have a to develop existing and new markets for PGMs. 
material adverse effect on the Group’s Longer term volume contracts with key customers.
future operational performance and 
financial condition.
Operational Risks
Impact – Operational event impacting staff, contractors, communities or the environment leading to loss of revenue and
/ or reputation or increased costs.
1. Losing Licence to Operate
Risk Impact Mitigation
Failure of safety routines Could result in a catastrophic loss of life, The Safety & Sustainability Committee oversees all 
and/or safety strategy severely disrupt operations and have a safety matters. Safety standards set and monitored 
material adverse effect on the Group’s regularly throughout the Company. Clearly defined 
financial condition. safety protocols including Safe Behaviour
Observations. Plant maintenance programmes
supported by critical spares inventory. Regular safety
audits carried out by the company and independent
experts as well as inspections by the Department of
Mineral Resources (DMR). Business interruption
insurance cover in place. Balanced scorecard
measure and other bonus schemes incentivise
appropriate safety behaviour.
Impairment to Lonmin’s Lonmin’s right to mine may be In 2010, Lonmin received confirmation from the 
mineral rights compromised in some measure. DMR of its mineral rights including the right to mine
associated minerals. A private challenge may exist in
relation to a limited portion of the estate which
Lonmin intends to contest vigorously.
Corporate & Social Non-delivery of our Social and Labour plan Social and community programmes are monitored 
Responsibility* could result in the withdrawal of our by the Executive Committee and the Safety and 
Mining Licence. Sustainability Committee. KPIs are set and measured
on a regular basis. Ongoing dialogue with the relevant
authorities. Balanced scorecard measures incentivise
delivery of a selection of targets.
Failure to comply with Results in a deteriorating relationship with Engagement with the DMR in South Africa and with 
Black Economic the DMR in South Africa and puts mineral all other stakeholders to ensure compliance. We have
Empowerment (BEE) rights at risk. transformed our BEE vehicle (Incwala) by focusing 
codes in relation to on one strong partner (Shanduka) and have 
mining e.g. failure to financially supported the transaction that facilitated
achieve BEE equity this change.
participation of 26% 
by 2014
Theft of explosives Lives are put at risk both internally and Delivery and tracking of explosives is strictly 
externally e.g. where explosives are stolen controlled and independently audited. Audit points 
to perpetrate a further criminal act outside are closely followed up. Access points are controlled 
of the business. across the property and identification checks and
employee searches are conducted.
* see Sustainable Development Review for more detailed disclosure. 32
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
Operational Risks (continued)
2. Serious Impairment in Production
Risk Impact Mitigation
Inadequate and/or poor Significant changes to our assessment of Bore hole sampling and seismic surveys conducted 
quality ore reserves the quality and extent of our ore reserves under the supervision of specialist geologists coupled
could have a material adverse effect on the with independent audits of reserves. Quality in-house
Group’s future operational performance technical team with multiple internal review 
and financial condition. processes.
Lack of long term ore Shareholder value not optimised over the Independent peer review of Long Term Plan before 
reserve depletion long term. submission to the Board.
planning
Lack of short term ore Could severely disrupt operations and have Technical Services functions acting independently of 
reserve development a material adverse effect on the Group’s mine management located at mine shafts scrutinising
planning and resultant financial condition. flexibility and working areas. Clear mining management
shortfalls in mining structure with defined accountabilities and 
output responsibilities. Performance measured and 
reported to the Board. Balanced scorecard measure 
incentivises appropriate ore reserve development. 
Theft of equipment Lives are put at risk e.g. electronic safety Access points are controlled across the property and 
and materials equipment no longer functions effectively identification checks and employee searches are 
e.g. copper cable where copper cable has been stolen. conducted. Constant vigilance required.
Metal recoveries Could have a material adverse effect on the Grade targets set and measured by assay and 
throughout operations Group’s financial condition. sampling in Mining. In Processing, plant maintenance
not maximised programmes ensure plant stability to assist in
optimising recoveries. Technical Services functions
acting independently of operational management
scrutinise management information. Experienced
management teams and clear benchmarks set.
Balanced scorecard measure ensures focus on
recoveries. Third party audits and peer reviews
conducted.
Inadequate smelting Could severely disrupt operations and have Pyromets provide an element of back-up capacity. 
performance & back-up a material adverse effect on the Group’s Spare capacity in Number One furnace currently 
capacity financial condition. gives ability to catch up. Number One furnace
includes improved monitoring and fault detection
technology. The Board has approved the necessary
investment to increase smelting capacity by the
construction of an additional furnace and for ongoing
improvements to the Number One furnace.
Major fault on key Could severely disrupt operations and have Plant maintenance programmes coupled with an 
piece of equipment a material adverse effect on the Group’s on-site stock of critical spares.
e.g. smelter financial condition.
Deteriorating industrial Could result in an unstable workforce that Full engagement strategy with the unions and 
relations and/or union severely disrupts operations and has a employees. This strategy is supported by our other 
disruption material adverse effect on the Group’s external relationships, community projects and 
financial condition. regular communication with our employees. New
union meeting structure in place. 33
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Operational Risks (continued)
3. Major Financial Fraud or Theft
Risk Impact Mitigation
Fraud and/or theft Could have a material adverse effect on Fraud awareness training and security reviews 
of PGM product the Group’s financial condition. supported by a code of ethics and a whistle blowing
programme. Security and Investigations department
operations carried out in key areas of the business.
New management structure for Security has been
implemented to improve line accountability and to
provide a better check and balance within the
security function. 
Failure of internal Could severely disrupt operations and have Clear organisational structure with appropriate 
controls a material adverse effect on the Group’s segregation of duties which is independently 
financial condition. monitored on an ongoing basis. Significant focus on
tracking the ounces through the production process.
Independent internal and external audits with follow
up of outstanding action points. Aligning the Risk
Management framework to the Internal Audit
framework to provide further assurance that key
controls effectively mitigate key risks.
4. Catastrophic Environmental Event
Risk Impact Mitigation
Catastrophic Could lead to loss of life, health concerns Flood barriers in place at mine shafts. Safety and 
environmental event in local communities, withdrawal of relevant monitoring procedures in place on return water 
results in contamination licences and potential litigation. and tailings dams. Surface and ground water 
and/or emissions that contamination levels monitored. Emissions monitored 
impact on the by regular sampling and scrubber systems in place. 
surrounding environment Business interruption insurance cover in place.
and communities*
* see Sustainable Development Review for more detailed disclosure. 34
2010 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
0
06 07 08 09 10
1,000
800
400
200
600
940
794
727
683
706
Ounces (000’s)
Financial year
Sales – platinum ounces sold
Platinum ounces sold are those ounces we produce either 
as refined ounces or recoverable ounces sold in concentrate.
-200
0
1,000
800
400
200
600
830
796
963
-93
228
US$m
06 07 08 09 10
Financial year
Underlying EBIT (Earnings Before Interest and Taxation)
For any business the ultimate aim is to grow underlying EBIT 
and deliver value to shareholders. We track our performance by
looking at our EBIT from continuing operations. Underlying EBIT 
is calculated on profit for the year and excludes the effect of 
one-off and non-trading items.
-300
400
300
0
-200
-100
100
200
380
290
264
-271 -203
US$m
06 07 08 09 10
Financial year
Free cash flow
We believe that a key metric of how successful we are as a business
is ultimately the amount of cash we generate before dividends and
acquisitions. 35
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
0
06 07 08 09 10
7,000
5,600
2,800
1,400
4,200
3,057
4,168
6,271
6,630
6,773
Rand per PGM oz produced
Financial year
Lonmin Costs – C1 costs of own production
Cost per unit is key to allowing us to operate profitably for far longer
through any down cycle. C1 costs are defined as cash operating
costs per PGM ounce produced.
0
06 07 08 09 10
3.0
2.4
1.2
0.6
1.8
2.5
2.0
1.7
2.0*
2.7
Centares (000,000’s)
Financial year
Development – Immediately available ore reserves
We have placed a renewed focus on mine development, using 
a metric of immediately available ore reserves in square metres 
or centares. 
* In 2009 we changed our reporting methodology for ore reserve development, 
in line with industry best practice, to exclude partially developed ore reserves.
We have reported on this basis since then.
0
06 07 08 09 10
15
12
6
3
9
12.50
10.80
6.27 6.21
5.87
Per million hours worked
Financial year
Safety – Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per million man 
hours worked
As a Company we are committed to Zero Harm to our employees
and contractors. We also regard safety performance as a lead
indicator of the health of any business. Lost time injury frequency
rate is measured per million man hours worked and reflects all
injuries sustained by employees which mean that the injured party 
is unable to return to work on the next shift.
0
06 07 08 09 10
6.0
4.8
2.4
1.2
3.6
4.10
5.03
4.80
5.22
5.31
Gigajoules per PGM oz
Financial year
Electricity efficiency
We continue to closely monitor and measure our electricity usage
and efficiency. We are running a number of initiatives across our
operations to ensure energy efficiency levels are improved. 36
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
Overview of 2010 
Highlights
• Development of an Integrated Safety strategy
reflecting a shift to a more proactive approach.
• Development of a revised housing model, including
earmarking accommodation for women in mining.
• Developing an integrated real time water balance
system to measure and monitor water flows
throughout the Company. 
• School attendance and performance in the Greater
Lonmin Community (GLC) have improved helped by
our investments in the education and nutrition
programmes. 
• 43.3% of our managers are from designated groups,
exceeding our target for this year.
• We have reduced our total fresh water intake, per unit
of production, by 25% compared to the 2007
baseline. 
• We are managing our risks associated with HIV/AIDS.
Challenges 
• Failure to eliminate fatal accidents: regrettably we had
three mine accident fatalities during the year.
• The delays on the housing project slowed down the
delivery on our Social and Labour Plan (SLP)
commitments.
• The effectiveness of our training and development
initiatives.
• Targeting the GLC with tertiary education bursaries. 
• To secure an adequate supply of water to sustain and
expand our operations.
• Promoting awareness of energy efficiency.
• To reduce the amount of ground level fugitive SO
2
emissions by 40% by 30 September 2014.
• Behavioural and technological obstacles to further
reduce Noise Induced Hearing Loss (NIHL) cases. 37
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
OUR APPROACH TO INTEGRATED REPORTING
This section of the Annual Report and Accounts provides
an overview of the key elements of our sustainability
performance, focusing in particular on our management
approach and performance with respect to those issues
that we have identified as being our principal risks in the
area of sustainable development. 
Our separate web-based Sustainable Development
Report (SDR), available online at www.lonmin.com,
provides a higher level of detail on our Sustainable
Development strategy and profile, management approach,
performance and case studies for those requiring more
in-depth information. The SDR is of particular interest 
to a broader set of stakeholders, such as SRI analysts,
sustainability professionals and civil society bodies. 
The Company’s primary listing is on the London Stock
Exchange and it is therefore subject to The Combined
Code on Corporate Governance, published in 2008 by the
UK’s Financial Reporting Council. The Company also has
a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange
and whilst it is not subject to the provisions of King III, the
Board has reviewed the recommendations in King III and
identified minor areas where adopting the provisions of
the code on a voluntary basis is felt likely to confer
advantage to the Company and its shareholders.
As this report is specifically addressed to
shareholders, we have concentrated on those principal
issues necessary for an understanding of Lonmin’s
business and the environment in which it operates. Many
of the initiatives underway in the business or planned for
2011 are therefore not reported on in this section on the
grounds of significance, and the omission of the
information should not be taken as implying any lack of
commitment on the Company’s part.
Reporting on our principal sustainable development risks
Our Company operates in an increasingly turbulent
environment and we face additional risks as a result of this
uncertainty. All of our productive operations are in South
Africa which faces significant development challenges
relating to poverty and inequality, manifesting itself in
unemployment, poor health, a lack of education and other
issues. 
The Company places high importance on identifying
and managing all risks that could have an impact on itself
and allocates the necessary resources to adequately
manage our sustainable development risks. It should be
noted that not all risks are significant and as such those
risks that we have identified as our principal and key
sustainable development risks, as well as our
performance against targets to address these risks, are
provided on the next two pages. Additional information on
our management approach and sustainability performance,
in addition to other sustainable development risks that we
have identified, is provided in the SDR.
Performance against our targets
This year we undertook a comprehensive assessment of
what sustainable development means for the Company
and incorporated inputs from stakeholders at various
phases to establish our principal and key sustainable
development risks. Governed by our Safety and
Sustainable Development Policy we have targets in place
in order to direct adequate resources to the effective
management of those risks.
The Business Case for Sustainable Development
We believe that there are sound business reasons for going beyond compliance in terms of our social and environmental
performance. Integrating sustainable development and social transformation issues in a strategic and coherent
manner protects our legal licence to operate, enhances our social accountability, contributes to more effective risk
management, improves operational efficiencies and so potentially creates valuable business opportunities.
Further, there are the obvious financial benefits associated with improving resource efficiency. This has taken 
on greater significance in the context of recent (and anticipated) increases in energy prices, as well as growing
concerns relating to the security of the longer term supply of energy, water and other resources. We recognise 
that we need to be innovative not only in terms of securing the supply of these resources, but also in identifying
opportunities to reduce the demand for these inputs.
In addition to these opportunities associated with protecting value, we believe that sound sustainability practices
also present opportunities for creating value. One of our most important value drivers is the productivity of our
employees. By investing in the health and safety of our employees, and by providing them with opportunities to
further develop their careers, we are making direct investments in the longer term success of the Company and 
the South African nation as a whole. 
Recognising these business case benefits, we are integrating many aspects of sustainability into the Life of
Business Plan for our operations. 38
OUR APPROACH TO INTEGRATED REPORTING (continued)
Table 1 Performance against our targets
Target 2010 Our 2010 performance Targets beyond 2010
Disruption to our operations resulting from poor safety performance and culture
We will have zero fatal injuries at Tragically, three fatalities occurred We continue to maintain a target of zero fatal 
each of our operations each year. at our operations in 2010. injuries across all of our operations.
(page 43)
We will improve our Lost Time LTIFR has improved by 5.5% We will improve our LTIFR by a further 5% by 
Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) by relative to 2009. (page 43) 30 September 2011 to a total reduction of 
10% by 30 September 2010 10% from the 2009 baseline.
(baseline year 2009).
Possible withdrawal of our Mining Licences resulting from failure to deliver commitments made in our SLP regarding
housing and converting our hostel units.
We will convert five hostel We converted five hostel blocks, We will convert an additional 26 hostel 
complexes into bachelor and/or – at Karee, Wonderkop and complexes into bachelor and/or family 
family accommodation by Eastern Platinum – at a total cost accommodation by 30 September 2011 
30 September 2010. of US$2 million into family and at a cost of US$10.9 million.
bachelor accommodation 
in 2010. (page 44) We will upgrade a further 252 houses at 
our Marikana operations by 30 September 2011.
Possible withdrawal of our Mining Licences resulting from failure to deliver commitments made in our SLP regarding
training and empowerment of our employees and communities.
We will improve the literacy rates 793 employees enrolled in our The target will be reviewed in the light of the 
of our employees by 2% by Adult Basic Education and revised mining charter.
30 September 2010 based on Training (ABET) course in 2010 
our performance in 2009. with our rate of functional 
numeracy and literacy in the 
Company improving by 2% 
compared to 2009. (page 45)
We will increase the participation We have 43.3% employees from We will increase the participation of employees
of employees from designated designated groups within senior. from designated groups within each level of
groups within senior and middle and middle management. management to 40% by 30 September 2014
1
.
management to 53% by 2014. (page 45)
We will increase female participation We managed to increase women We will increase female participation at the 
at the mine in line with our in core mining representation to mine by 11.6% by 30 September 2014 
commitments under our Social 3.22% and women at the mine (2010 baseline year).
and Labour Plans. to 7.04%. (page 45)
We will have 63% of our total We spent 69% of total We will have 65% of our total discretionary 
discretionary spend with historically discretionary spend on HDSA spend with HDSA suppliers by 
disadvantaged South African suppliers. 30 September 2012.
(HDSA) suppliers by 
30 September 2010.
Inability to secure an adequate electricity supply for our current operations and for the planned expansions in line with
our Life of Business Plan.
We will reduce our aggregate Aggregate energy consumption We are still on track to achieve the committed 
energy consumption per unit of has decreased by 6.9% on our target.
production by 10% by 2007 consumption to 
30 September 2012, thereby 4.73 (GJ)/PGM oz in 2010. 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions (page 48)
by 5% (2007 baseline year).
Inability to secure an adequate supply of water to sustain and expand our operations.
We will reduce our aggregate fresh We have reduced our aggregate We are still on track to achieve the committed 
water intake by 15% per unit of fresh water intake by 25% per target.
production (2007 baseline year) unit of production since 2007.
by 30 September 2012. (page 47)
1 The target was reviewed in the light of the revised mining charter. The target focuses on all levels of management and not just specifically on senior and
middle management.
7
7
7
4
4
4
4
4
4 39
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Target 2010 Our 2010 performance Targets beyond 2010
Loss of sustainable fresh water for our operations and communities due to deterioration of surface and ground water
quality.
No targets were in place for 2010 as the risk was only added We will prevent any discharges from our 
as a key risk during 2010. Marikana return water dams and Waste Water 
Treatment Plants into the environment by 
30 September 2014
2
. 
Possible withdrawal of our licence to operate if we fail to meet the legislative requirements of SO
2
emissions.
No targets were in place for 2010 as the risk was only added We will reduce the amount of ground level 
as a key risk during 2010. fugitive SO
2
emissions by 40% (2010 baseline 
year) by 30 September 2014. (page 49)
3
.
Deterioration of the health of our employees and their reduced productivity due to the impact of HIV/AIDS and
Tuberculosis amongst our workforce.
We will increase participation of 498 employees were enrolled in We will increase participation of patients in our 
patients in our wellness programme our wellness programmes as at wellness programme by a further 5% by 
by 20% by 30 September 2010 the end of this financial year. 30 September 2011 (2010 baseline year).
(2009 baseline year). This is 45 or 4% lower than the 
2009 baseline. (page 50)
We aim to maintain one active We have 311 active peer We aim to maintain one active workplace 
workplace peer educator for educators for the workforce, peer educator for every 75 employees by 
every 75 employees by thus one active peer educator 30 September 2011.
30 September 2010. for every 77 employees. (page 50)
Impaired hearing of our employees and the resultant impact on our safety performance due to the lack of adherence to our
hearing conservation programme.
We will reduce our number of The number of NIHL cases has We will reduce our number of new NIHL cases 
new Noise Induced Hearing Loss been reduced by 11.1%. We have by a further 5% by 30 September 2011 
(NIHL) cases by 10% by achieved our target of reducing (2010 baseline year).
30 September 2010 our number of new NIHL cases, 
(2009 baseline year). by 10% September 2010.
(page 50)
2 This target is dependent on the Government granting the Company an Integrated Water Use Licence and its continuing supporting thereafter of the
Integrated Water Management Plan (of which the Water Balance is an integral part). 
3 Ground level fugitive SO
2
emissions account for 57% of the total SO
2
at full capacity.
7
7
4
4
4 “WE CONTINUE TO FOCUS ON THE RECOVERIES
AND EFFICIENCIES OF OUR CONCENTRATORS AS
THIS IS VALUE ENHANCING.”
KAJA TSHIMANGA – LEADER, THE ENHANCERS
Kaja Tshimanga leads the Process and Technical team (“the Enhancers”)
which looks at process improvement and optimisation of the Rowland, 
1 Shaft UG2, Merensky and K4 Concentrators. The Enhancers were
established as part of a MDWT (Mission Directed Work Teams) programme
some two years ago by Natascha Viljoen, our Concentrators VP , to look 
at initiatives which would enhance and then sustain the performance.
The Enhancers all have an engineering background. Under the
leadership, coaching and mentoring of Kaja, this team has successfully
defined the shortfalls in the production process, identified the lead indicators
for good performance, analysed and improved the process and shared its
findings with others. All this has been achieved by applying a highly
disciplined and focused methodology. The team has journeyed along what
we refer to as the “S” curve, from the basic principles of mineral processing
to exploring and evaluating new application possibilities. 
Kaja and his team use the six sigma approach and MDWT framework
when considering ways of improving the efficiencies and recoveries. Kaja is
also focused on building an experienced team which will be equipped with
the right skills for production and process management. 
CASE STUDY: THE ENHANCERS –
CONCENTRATORS
40 41
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOVERNANCE
Managing sustainable development at Lonmin
The Company’s overall governance practices are
underpinned by the values set out in the Lonmin Charter
and supported by the Lonmin Code of Business Ethics.
Our commitments relating specifically to the governance
of sustainable development are defined in the Lonmin
Safety and Sustainable Development Policy.
Implementation of these commitments is informed by our
Safety and Sustainable Development Management
Standards and by the principles of the International
Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the United
Nations Global Compact (UNGC). 
Ultimate responsibility for promoting sustainable
development within the Company rests with our Chief
Executive Officer. He is assisted by the members of the
Executive Committee, which is responsible for reviewing
our progress and performance on safety and sustainability
issues. During the year, the Executive Vice President for
Processing took over line responsibility for the sustainable
development programme; further changes to the
structures have been made and we are confident that
these changes will translate into sustainable development
being more firmly embedded throughout the Company.
Establishing integrity through auditing and assurance
Regular auditing and assurance processes are undertaken
to improve the integrity of our measurement and data
management systems and our external reporting activities.
The Board’s Audit and Risk Committee approves the annual
Company wide internal and external audit plans. Audit
findings are updated monthly and progress on corrective
management plans are reviewed by the Executive
Committee on a monthly basis and by the Audit and Risk
Committee of the Board on a quarterly basis. In addition to
the Company wide external assurance process conducted
for our annual Sustainable Development Report (SDR), this
year we have also conducted an internal audit on selected
key sustainability indicators to monitor the effectiveness
and inclusiveness of our systems. External assurance is
provided on selected parameters in the SDR, the
alignment of our policies and business practices with the
ICMM principles and our reporting in accordance to the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting principles.
WE ARE FULLY COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICE, WHICH WE BELIEVE IS
NECESSARY FOR THE BUSINESS INTEGRITY REQUIRED TO DELIVER
ROBUST AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS RESULTS.  42
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOVERNANCE (continued)
External auditing of our ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and
OHSAS 18001 management systems is designed to
support continuous improvement of our performance at
an operational level. In 2010, all our operations have
retained ISO 14001 certification. Currently the Smelter,
BMR and PMR and Analytical Laboratories are OHSAS
18001 certified, with Lonmin Services, Marikana Mining,
Limpopo Mining, Concentrators and the Training
Academy not yet certified. We found that the target for all
of our operations to be OHSAS 18001 certified by 2011
to be challenging. We are therefore aligning our
management systems so that we will be able to be
audited for full OHSAS 18001 certification during 2012.
We also generate regular Environmental Management
Programme Reports (EMPRs) which form part of the
annual external Environmental Performance Assessment
audits. This is a legal requirement under the Minerals and
Petroleum Resource Development Act 28 of 2002
(MPRDA) under which our mining licences and
prospecting rights are granted. In 2011, we will update
our 2005 Environmental Management Programmes in
terms of the MPRDA and National Environmental
Management Act of 1998 taking into account all the
environmental legislation recently being promulgated. In
2010, we achieved our target to receive no prosecutions
or fines relating to safety, health and environmental
management.
Membership of external organisations and initiatives
We have been members of the International Council of
Mining and Metallurgy (ICMM) since 2004, and we are a
signatory to the United Nations Global Compact.
“The ICMM (International Council on Mining and
Metals) was established to act as a catalyst for
performance improvement in the mining and metals
industry. Today, the organisation brings together 19
mining and metals companies as well as 30 national and
regional mining associations and global commodity
associations to address the core sustainable development
challenges faced by the industry. The ICMM Sustainable
Development Framework comprises three elements, a set
of 10 Principles (including a set of supporting position
statements), public reporting and independent assurance;
these have been developed systematically over the past
10 years.” More details on the ICMM can be found on
their web-site (www.icmm.com).
Through our participation in the ICMM, we support 
the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a
coalition of governments, companies, civil society groups,
investors and international organisations that aims to
strengthen governance by improving transparency and
accountability in the extractive sector. 
We are members of and, participate in, the
International Platinum Group Metals Association (IPA),
International Chamber of Commerce, South African
Chamber of Mines, Business Leadership South Africa,
and a number of forums in a local context applicable to
our individual operations. In 2010 we continued to
participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project and provided
climate change related information to our shareholders.
We remain included in the FTSE4Good Index and the
JSE’s Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) index. 
Public policy positions
The Company made submissions to the Financial Reporting
Council in the United Kingdom on their revision of the
United Kingdom Corporate Governance Code. A Company
representative also belongs to two groupings of company
secretaries / general counsel that undertake significant
lobbying in the United Kingdom and Europe on corporate
legal and governance matters on a cross-industry basis.
In South Africa we have been engaging with the
Department of Mineral Resources both directly and via 
the Chamber of Mines on the Mining Industry Growth,
Development and Employment Task Team. Our focus 
has been on issues related to the MPRDA and our SLP
requirements in particular. Our Chief Executive Officer
participates as an Executive Council member of the
Chamber of Mines with our Chief Operating Officer as 
his alternate.
Engaging our Stakeholders
We believe that developing sound relationships with 
our stakeholders is a pre-requisite in creating robust
operations, enabling us to achieve operational stability
and maximise the long term creation of value. We are
committed to maintaining transparent, enduring and 
two way relationships with our stakeholders and to
incorporating their views into our decision making
processes. To manage our stakeholder relationships we
have developed the Lonmin Stakeholder Engagement
Protocol that is based on industry best practice.
We identify stakeholders as those groups or
individuals whose behaviour has an impact on the
performance of the Company, or for whom the
Company’s behaviour or decisions have consequences.
Part of analysing stakeholders is based on their stake in
the Company (for example ownership, or an economic or
social stake), as well as their level of influence (which
could be formal, economic or political). Significant issues
raised by our different stakeholders and how we have
addressed those issues is discussed in detail in the SDR.
We also provide a detailed review of the nature of our
stakeholder identification and engagement practices in
the SDR.  43
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
DEVELOPING A CULTURE OF SAFETY
Our Safety and Sustainable Development Policy, Safety
and Sustainable Development Management Standards
and Fatal Risk Control Protocols provide a risk-based
framework for Company wide safety management,
continuous improvement and alignment with international
best practice. This year we are developing a new Group
wide Safety Strategy. Up until now we had Safety
Strategies per business area.
The Safety Department specifies safety standards and
training material; they further audit the implementation of
these Lonmin specific requirements. Safety remains the
responsibility of each employee, with line management
accountable for delivering safe systems and places of work.
Ultimately, our Chief Executive Officer is accountable for
the safety of all of our employees and contractors on site.
Visible leadership is crucial to success in safety and in
creating an interdependent safety culture. We undertake
Safe Behaviour Observations as a lead indicator of our
safety performance, and we conduct risk assessments 
to address unsafe behaviour or conditions. We rigorously
investigate all serious incidents through the Incident
Cause Analysis Method (ICAM). Findings from these
incidents inform our drive for zero harm and are
communicated across our operations.
Work related fatalities in 2010
We regret any injuries suffered in our operations, but
tragically three of our employees were fatally injured this year: 
• Mr Siyabonga Tomose succumbed to his injuries on
10 December 2009 following an incident involving a
fall-of-ground at K3 Shaft; 
• Mr Bavuyise Sganeko Bala was fatally injured on 
1 March 2010 following in an incident involving a fall-
of-ground in Newman Shaft; and 
• Ms Betty Metsiapula Moekwa was killed on 
19 August 2010 in an incident involving an
underground locomotive at Rowland Shaft. 
The entire Lonmin community extends our deepest
sympathies to the families and friends of our late colleagues. 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate
The year-on-year LTIFR
1
decreased by 5.5% from 6.21 in
2009 to 5.87 in 2010, however this is below the target
reduction of 10%. We have set our target for 2011 to reduce
the LTIFR by a further 5%. In 2010, the number of Lost Time
Injuries (LTIs) was 473, a year-on-year increase of 2.6%. The
Severity rate
2
was 267, a year-on-year increase of 6.5%.
The Company wide fatality rate
3
remained constant at 0.04.
It should be noted that in 2010 we have improved the
accuracy for the man-hours worked and as a result it is
possible that the man-hours have been previously
understated and hence the LTIFR may have been overstated
in prior years. We have been unable to quantify the impact
of this on the prior year’s data; upon assessment we do
not believe the difference to be material and therefore we
will not restate the previous year’s LTIFR.
In 2010, we were issued with seventeen notifications, in
relation to Section 54 of the Mine Health and Safety Act 29
of 1996, compared to the 35 notifications in 2009. All of
these were at the Marikana operations. 
Key safety activities undertaken during the year
We have conducted a number of safety initiatives in 2010.
Those with the greatest impact were: 
• We continued to implement the “Laduma Score a Goal
for Safety Campaign”, a learning map with a soccer
theme that reinforces the importance of safe behaviours
and adherence to safety procedures. 
• We rolled out our ten week “Tsoka-Vuka-awake”
awareness campaign, which we believe contributed
towards a united alignment towards tackling the
common safety goals.
• The “Safety Calendar Campaign” to link safety talks to
specific safety incidents that are more likely to occur at
different times during the year. We believe that this is
contributing to a culture shift towards more preventative
risk behaviour.
• We performed a baseline assessment of the legal
compliance of our Safety and Sustainability Standards
and we have also determined the maturity level of the
Company’s safety programme.
1 The total number of LTI’s per million man hours worked. An LTI is a
work related injury resulting in the injured being unable to attend or
return to work to perform the full or similar duties of his / her regular
work, as per advice of a suitable qualified medical professional, on
the next calendar day after the injury.
2 The total days lost for the total lost time injuries per million hours worked.
3 The total number of work related fatalities per total number of hours
worked.
THE WELLBEING OF OUR EMPLOYEES AND THEIR FAMILIES,
CONTRACTORS AND COMMUNITIES REMAINS IMPORTANT TO US.
OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON PEOPLE AND BY PROVIDING A SAFE
AND HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT OUR PEOPLE CAN CONTRIBUTE TO
CREATING AND SUSTAINING VALUE. 
0 
06 07 08 09
Fatalities
Financial year
LTIFR
10
15
9
6
12
3
0 
6
4 
2 
3 
1 
5 
Lost time injuries per 
million hours worked
Number of fatalities
LTIFR and fatalities in 2010 44
HOUSING OUR EMPLOYEES
AS PART OF OUR COMMITMENT TO ENHANCING EMPLOYEE
WELLBEING WE HAVE UNDERTAKEN TO PROVIDE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING TO OUR EMPLOYEES IN THE SURROUNDING COMMUNITIES.
Recognising the shortage of available and affordable
housing in the surrounding communities, in our Social
and Labour Plans (SLP) we committed to converting a
total of 114 hostel blocks into 2,718 family and bachelor
accommodation units and construct 5,500 houses within
the Greater Lonmin Community (GLC), the GLC is the
communities situated within a fifteen kilometre radius of
our operations.
Regrettably there have been several challenges that
have required us to review the target of 5,500 houses. 
These challenges include a lack of readily available land,
insufficient water and electricity supply, financial
constraints, affordability of the units that were to be
constructed and the actual housing needs of our
employees, the majority of who require rental
accommodation. Given the challenges faced we have
designed a new Integrated Human Settlement Strategy.
Our housing stock currently comprises 1,798 houses,
544 family units and 92 bachelor units. We have three
hostel complexes, all of which are available for our
unskilled and semi-skilled employees. A living out
allowance is available as an alternative to Company
provided accommodation. 
A revised strategy
We have recently revised the housing strategy, informed
by a recent extensive survey that identifies the actual
needs of our employees and by the experience gained in
implementing our existing strategy. The new Integrated
Human Settlement Strategy will focus on: developing
strategic partnerships between the Company, property
developers and investors and financiers; promoting higher
density of housing thereby developing more affordable
structures informed by successful government schemes.
Hostel conversions and Housing
This year we have recommenced our hostel conversions
project that was put on hold in 2009 and we are currently
in discussion with the Department of Mineral Resources
(DMR) and other interested parties to agree a practical
and realistic timeframe to meet the SLP commitment. Our
commitment to convert all of our hostel accommodation
remains a goal for completion by 2014. 
We have begun a campaign to promote home
ownership. To date of an available 1,149 houses in
Marikana 103 houses have had ownership transferred 
to the individuals. We have also recognised and
responded to the need for awareness and training 
around home ownership.
One of the most important considerations in this
process is the availability of land. We have secured land
for approximately 2,500 houses. So far, 860 stands have
been serviced and 1,700 stands have been approved by
the Rustenburg Municipality for the two Marikana
extention township establishment. 45
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
INVESTING IN EMPLOYEE TRAINING 
AND EMPOWERMENT
The viability of our business is ultimately dependent on our
ability to attract, retain and develop skilled talent. This is
becoming an increasing challenge in the context of the
escalating national and international demand for skilled
recruits in the mining industry. It is also critical that we
strive to address the legacy on inequality in South Africa
by promoting empowerment opportunities, as well as
further improving our employees’ productivity through
initiatives aimed at assisting them in managing their careers.
Attracting, retaining and developing employees
We aim to attract highly skilled and motivated employees,
while at the same time seeking to develop a diverse
workforce and empowering the GLC through the provision
of employment and training opportunities. We have
recruitment programmes in place to attract people from
our local communities particularly targeted at women.
Managing talent and developing employees
Our talent management programme comprises talent
review, performance management, career development,
succession planning and mentoring. In 2010, we had 636
employees registered for the mentorship programme and
321 active mentees. Career development plans are also
reviewed annually and to date 6.1% of employees have
participated in the process. We implement a range of
targeted training initiatives, including induction courses,
annual refresher training and specific technical training
through the Lonmin Training Academy. We provide a Front
Line Supervisory Development Programme and Mission
Directed Work Team training for our managers, and we
provide opportunities for employees to study at
independent institutions. We also provide adult basic
education and training initiatives (ABET) for employees, with
the aim of facilitating functional literacy and numeracy. In
2010, our rate of functional numeracy and literacy improved
by 2% compared to 2009. We also provide bursaries,
internships and sponsorships.
Promoting employment equity
Our employment equity programme is intended to remove
any institutional barriers that may have historically existed
on the basis of race, gender, ethnicity, age or disability.
Our programme includes targeted recruitment, employee
development, succession planning and adjustments to
the work environment. Employees classified as designated
groups are women, people with disabilities, and South
African citizens classified as of Asian, Coloured or
African origin.
We have had to revise our employment equity targets
to align with the revised mining charter.
The following revised target, integrated into our SLPs,
is now in place:
• 40% designated groups participation in all levels 
of management by 2014.
Responsibility for the implementation of all
employment equity policies rests with the Executive Vice
Presidents, supported by the Human Capital department
and the Employment Equity Forum, with sub committees
comprised of managers and representatives from all major
trade unions. We are pleased to report that 43.3% of our
senior and middle managers are from designated groups,
exceeding our target for this year. 
Promoting Women in mining
Although the revised mining charter does not have
specific targets for women in the workforce, we have
continued to set relevant targets:
• 10% women in core mining operations and applicable
to certain employment categories; and
• 11.6% women in all operations by 2014.
As at 30 September 2010, 7.04% of our mine
employees were women a year on year improvement of
0.24%. We employed 3.22% of women in core mining
positions. Women in mining exclude those women who
work in support functions. Together with the International
Finance Corporation (IFC), we developed a guide to
integrating women into the workforce, which we
presented and shared with other mining houses at the
Mining Indaba in Cape Town held in February 2010.
Investing in the Community
Investment in education directly addresses our skills
shortage, as it enables the Company to build capacity 
in the GLC that should help us develop future workforce.
In building this capacity, we are able to meet our SLP
commitments to employ from our local community and
invest in the economic sustainability of the GLC.
We focus our efforts in education at learners, educators,
parents and the nutritional needs of learners. We understand
the interrelated nature of these components. Targeted
investment in childhood development, primary and
secondary education, and in tertiary education and training
help build capacity in the GLC. It also helps us identify and
develop a pool of eligible learners for bursaries and tertiary
level development, matched to our skills requirements.
These activities also support our efforts to develop small
and medium enterprises and so create a set of viable and
vibrant communities.
There is evidence of the positive impact that our
investment in education and nutrition has had on GLC
school attendance and performance. We trained 86
community members as Rock Drill Operators and 65 of
them have been found competent. Fifteen men and two
women from the GLC have been trained and found
competent as Blaster Assistants and to date twelve of
these trainees have been employed by the Company. 
IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT WE ATTRACT, DEVELOP AND RETAIN A
SKILLED WORKFORCE AND FOSTER DIVERSITY, PROVIDING A WORK
ENVIRONMENT THAT ENABLES OUR EMPLOYEES TO REACH THEIR
POTENTIAL AND ADD VALUE TO THE COMPANY. “IT IS IMPORTANT FOR US TO PUT SOMETHING
BACK INTO OUR COMMUNITIES.”
Tozama Kulati, Manager: Community Projects
SILINDINI THUSONG SERVICE CENTER PROJECT – EASTERN CAPE PROVINCE
A significant percentage of our employees come from the Eastern Cape
Province and we therefore consider this community to be very important to us.
A few years ago we partnered with the local municipality of Engcobo in this
province to identify the needs of its community. We consulted with the local
authorities and identified that this community did not have adequate access
to basic government services such as police, health and social services. 
We committed to building what is now known as the Silindini Thusong
Service Centre, a place where this community comprised of eight villages
now has access to these essential government services. The service centre
also employs three people from the community. As we planned the project
we realised that access to the centre during the rainy season would be
difficult, because of the river that runs through this community, so we decided
to build a steel bridge across the river. The bridge was completed and handed
over to the community this year. The bridge now also enables children to
cross the river and attend school located on the same side as Thusong. 
During the construction of the centre ten community members were
provided with accredited training in portable skills such as brick laying,
plastering, carpentry and painting. The centre was built using some local
labour. It is an environmentally friendly building which uses solar panels for
power and has a rainwater catchment system for water supply. 
In October 2010, Lonmin jointly won the Nedbank Capital Green Mining
Awards for 2010 in the Socio-economic category for this infrastructure
project. The award recognises the work done by our External Affairs team
and in particular Tozama Kulati, the Community Manager who has been
spearheading our community investment in the Eastern Cape.
CASE STUDY: COMMUNITY
46 47 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
MANAGING ACCESS TO QUALITY WATER
Our management of water resources is based on an
integrated three fold approach that: 
• secures the availability of sufficient water for our
current and likely future mining operations; 
• reduces our freshwater consumption by improving
water use efficiencies and water recycling; and 
• prevents the contamination of ground and surface
water resources in the regions where we operate. 
We are developing an integrated real time water
balance system to measure and monitor water flows
throughout the organisation. This will allow for wastewater
from certain processes to be used in other areas of our
operations that can tolerate lower quality water. Other
outcomes include reduced mixing of different quality
waters and more efficient use of this scarce source for
example by identifying and repairing leaking infrastructure.
We intend to finalise the integrated water balance within
the next financial year and, based on the outcomes, we
plan to implement water saving and waste reduction
initiatives within the next financial year and into 2012. 
We are confident that further reductions to our overall
water demand can be achieved.
We have secured access to water resources that we
expect to be sufficient for our current and planned mining
and processing needs at our Marikana operations, subject
to no material change occurring in rainfall patterns. We are
in the process of securing further water resources for 
our Akanani operations in the Limpopo Province. While
climate change may well have an impact on water
supplies, we will continue actively to manage our need 
for security of supply of water resources over the medium
to long term.
Managing the quality of ground and surface water
resources
We aim to prevent pollution and environmental
degradation of surface and groundwater resources. 
We continue to monitor the impacts of our operations 
on water resources and the outcome of our remediation
efforts. Freshwater usage at our operations in Marikana
and at our PMR is sourced from the regional water utility,
while our Limpopo operations access freshwater from a
regional well field. Ground water consumption is limited 
to our exploration activities.
In 2010, our total fresh water intake from the regional
water utility at the Marikana operations and from the
wellfield in Limpopo amounted to 8,005kilo-m
3
, which 
is a year-on-year decrease of 10%. The total freshwater
efficiency has improved by 14.7% from 7.14m
3
/PGM oz 
in 2009 to 6.09m
3
/PGM oz in 2010. To date we have
reduced our total freshwater intake, per unit of production,
by 25% compared to the 2007 baseline. 
OUR MINING OPERATIONS ARE LOCATED IN WATER SCARCE
REGIONS OF SOUTH AFRICA. SHIFTING RAINFALL PATTERNS 
AND INCREASING WATER DEMAND ARE LEADING TO A GROWING
LIKELIHOOD OF WATER SHORTAGES, WHICH PRESENTS A SIGNIFICANT
CHALLENGE FOR THE COMPANY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES. 
0 
06 07 08 09 10
14,000,000
12,000,000
8,000,000
6,000,000
4,000,000
2,000,000
10,000,000
m
3
Total freshwater intake efficiency 
(m
3
/PGM oz)
Total freshwater intake (m
3
)
0
9
8
1
4
3
2
7
6
5
m
3
/PGM oz
Financial year
Total freshwater intake and efficiency
At our Limpopo operations, the yield of the aquifer from
which we obtain our freshwater is approximately 30,000
m
3
/day, of which we are permitted to utilise 17%. As our
Limpopo operations are still under care and maintenance
our water use was not significant, but on average, based
on four years of consumption, we utilise 5% of the yield of
the aquifer.
In 2010, across our operations fourteen “Level Three”
unplanned discharges to surface water resources occurred
and were reported to relevant authorities as per legislative
requirements. Volumes of these discharges are unknown.
We have undertaken various initiatives throughout the
year aimed at maintaining access to quality water:
• we have made investments to maximise water recycling
through closed system reticulation.
• at our Marikana operations we are researching the
availability and practicality of reusing poorer quality
water from our tailings facilities.
• we are continuing with work on our static water balance
model and on developing a Company wide dynamic
integrated water balance. 
• storm water measures are being implemented over a
five year period at our Marikana operations to comply
with the National Water Act 36 of 1998. 
• a guideline has been implemented for the lining
specification for all newly constructed dirty water storage
facilities to minimise seepage to the receiving environment. 48
MAINTAINING ACCESS TO ENERGY AND
MANAGING CLIMATE RISKS
In South Africa we face particular challenges relating both
to the reliable supply of energy, especially electricity, and
increased pressure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
We expect these trends to contribute to higher energy
prices in the medium to longer term. Hence, sound
energy management is vital for our operations to function
efficiently, to reduce energy demand and to minimise our
direct and indirect impact on the environment.
Our total energy consumption in 2010 was 6,215 TJ,
a year-on-year decrease of 6.0%. Our energy per unit of
production has decreased by 6.9% on our 2007
consumption to 4.73GJ/PGM oz.
Electricity from the national grid represents 80% 
of our total energy consumption. The rest of the 20% of
our total energy consumption is from coal, gas and fuel.
Our approach to energy management is centred on
securing the availability of sufficient energy for our 
current and future mining operations, reducing our energy
consumption by improving energy use efficiencies and 
so ultimately minimising our carbon footprint. 
Reducing our energy use
We committed to reducing our energy consumption per
unit of production by 10% in the period from 2007 
to 2012. Electricity is our most significant indirect energy
source. In 2010, our Company wide electricity use
amounted to 1,380,218 MWh, which is a year-on-year
decrease of 6.9% and 14.8% below our 2007 baseline.
The decrease in total energy per PGM oz in 2010 is
encouraging but, with increased energy requirements
from conventional mining and the need to mine at greater
depths, we are concerned that we may not meet our
energy reduction targets. We therefore need to increase
our efforts to reduce energy consumption whilst being
pragmatic about what is feasible for our operations.
During 2010 we implemented various initiatives aimed
at reducing energy and fossil fuel use:
• We have launched two Demand Side Management
(DSM) projects on compressed air optimisation with
the aim of offsetting the impact that will accrue from
the deepening of our mines.
• We have started to quantify energy saving
opportunities and we are in the process of revising 
the Energy Efficiency Policy. 
• We have increased the awareness within each
operation of their current energy consumption and
their performance against the target.
• A power factor correction system at the Wonderkop
Substation.
• Improved control philosophy for the coal fired Hot Gas
Generator at the Smelter.
One of the biggest obstacles we face in reducing our
energy consumption is changing people’s behaviour.
Energy efficient technology is not difficult to implement,
but we have found that changing people’s attitudes and
behaviour generally poses the biggest challenge.
ENERGY IS INDISPENSABLE TO MINING AND WEALTH CREATION. 
IN THE CONTEXT OF THE GROWING DEMAND FOR ENERGY AND
INCREASING CONCERNS AROUND SECURITY OF SUPPLY, WE ARE
COMMITTED TO USING ENERGY RESPONSIBLY.
0 
06 07 08 09 10
8,000
7,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
6,000
TJ
Total energy efficiency 
(GJ/PGM oz)
Total energy 
(TJ)
0
6
1
4
3
2
5
GJ/PGM oz
Financial year
Total energy use and energy efficiency
Operating in a changing climate
We recognise our role, as a mining-to-metals company, in
mitigating and adapting to the impacts of climate change.
We aim to contribute towards addressing this global
challenge through energy efficiency initiatives, as well as
through the supply of PGMs that can be used in cleaner
burning technologies. 
We have set targets to improve our greenhouse
efficiency by 5% by 2012 based on our 2007 performance.
As this target was set in 2007 we will review it once our
Climate Change Strategy is in place. In 2010 we emitted a
total of 1,534 kilotonnes of CO
2
-equivalents. This
comprised of 102.1 kilotonnes of direct greenhouse gas
emissions (Scope One) and 1,428.2 kilotonnes of indirect
emissions associated with the purchase of electricity
(Scope Two) and 4.1 kilotonnes of greenhouse gas
emissions (Scope Three). 
We are currently developing a Climate Change Strategy
guided by the ICMM. The strategy seeks to identify and
address the key risks and opportunities presented by
climate change and will guide the process of achieving our
target of lower emissions through carbon reduction
improvement initiatives. It includes an assessment of the
corporate and operational impacts of climate change, and
provides for the development of an adaptation programme
and a carbon performance improvement strategy aligned
with the Company’s energy efficiency initiatives.  49
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
MANAGING OUR ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
Our principal atmospheric emissions are SO
2
, particulate
matter and greenhouse gases. Our air quality
management system ensures monitoring, reporting and
mitigation of these emissions emanating from sources
across our operations. We track our mitigation actions 
at the operations on a monthly basis against our set
performance indicators for both on and off site air quality.
South African legislation governing air quality
management has undergone significant changes in recent
years. 2010 saw the implementation of the National
Environmental Management Air Quality Act 39 of 2004
(NEMAQA). This shift in air quality regulation reflects a
source based control to that of a receiving environment
effects based approach. The main objective of the Act is
to ensure the protection of the environment and human
health through reasonable measures of air pollution
control within a sustainable (economic, social and
ecological) development framework. We have drafted a
strategy to comply with the new requirements of the
NEMAQA.
We have an environmental community forum twice a
year, where we present air quality projects and data and
to respond to community expectations and concerns
relating to air quality issues.
Reducing our SO
2
emissions
A key aspect of the NEMAQA includes maximum
emission standards to be imposed for our smelter
operations with respect to SO
2
emissions. A component
of our alignment strategy identifies the compliance
timeframes required by NEMAQA for the years 2015 
and 2020. In respect of ground level release of SO
2
, we
have a developed an SO
2
reduction strategy, which has
been submitted to the regulating authority. The reduction
strategy includes the management of ground level fugitive
emissions. Through extensive studies undertaken it was
determined that these emissions influence the ambient
environment. The fugitive management plan entails
capture, and if required cleaning and final release of
emissions. We will reduce the amount of ground level
fugitive SO
2
emissions
1
by 40% (2010 baseline year) by
30 September 2014. During 2010 our smelter operations
emitted an average of 14.1 tonnes of SO
2
per day, a year-
on-year increase of 3.0 tonnes of SO
2
per day.
1 Ground level fugitive SO
2
emissions account for 57% of the total
SO
2
at full capacity.
OUR OPERATIONS INFLUENCE THE AMBIENT AIR QUALITY.
WE ACKNOWLEDGE OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO MANAGE THIS
CONTINUOUSLY AND REDUCE THE IMPACT. WE AIM TO MINIMISE
OUR RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH EMISSIONS FROM OUR MINING 
AND PROCESSING ACTIVITIES. 
0
06 07 08 09 10
16
12
14
10
6
4
2
8
Tonnes  SO
2
/day
Financial year
Average tonnes of SO
2
emitted from point and
non-point sources 50
MANAGING HEALTH RISKS
Our approach to managing health
We are committed to honouring our health and safety
commitments and sustaining an environment that promotes
the safety, health and wellbeing of our employees and their
families, our contractors and the communities where we
operate.
Our CEO is ultimately accountable for the health and
wellbeing of our people, embodying our commitment to
promote this important issue. Healthcare delivery,
occupational health and hygiene policies, standards,
monitoring and the auditing thereof is the responsibility 
of the Company’s Health Department. Responsibility for
the implementation of occupational health and hygiene 
in practice resides with line management.
We partner with the government, our communities
and our peers to achieve the common goal of improved
health and wellbeing. We participate in forums and
collaborate with industry peers and government nationally
and internationally, including through the South African
Chamber of Mines’ Health Policy Committee and the
ICMM Health and Safety working groups. This enables us
to benchmark our health and safety activities intervention
and outcomes. We comply with all relevant South African
legislation and adhere to international conventions and
best practice. We aim to reduce exposure to risk, and to
educate and to help affected employees and contractors
to enable them to manage the impacts of ill health through
risk assessments and surveillance. 
Managing HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis in the Workplace
HIV/AIDS has had a marked impact on illness rates,
absenteeism and employee deaths as well as the general
wellbeing of the communities where we operate. From 
our HIV testing statistics we believe one in five of our
employees is HIV positive. It presents a risk to our
business but one that we believe can be managed. 
HIV prevalence accounts for the sharp increase in
reported incidents of Tuberculosis. Two new cases of
Extreme Drug Resistant Tuberculosis were reported in
2010 amongst our employees. 
The table below provides a summary of our
performance:
We are encouraged by the number of Lonmin
employees on our ART programme, but we failed to reach
our target of 620 employees in our wellness programmes
with only 498 employees enrolled. A contributing factor of
this is that some employees are redirected to participate
in our ART programme on entry into the wellness
programme as a result of their CD4 counts. Once an HIV-
positive employee’s CD4 T-lymphocyte count is below 
the acceptable limit, they are encouraged to join the 
ART programme. We make this available through the
employee’s medical aid with no additional cost. ART 
are offered to employees for life.
Our partnership with global mining companies to fund
Virax’s Southern Africa HIV Therapeutic Vaccine Project
drew to a close in 2010. Although this trial failed to yield
a proven therapeutic vaccine against HIV, we believe that
there was an encouraging move in the right direction.
Eliminating Noise Induced Hearing Loss (NIHL)
NIHL remains the most significant occupational disease in the
platinum mining industry. As such NIHL is a key occupational
health risk faced by our employees and contractors. 
We continue to support the directive issued by the
Department of Mineral Resources in 2007 to realise zero
new cases of NIHL. We have a comprehensive hearing
conservation programme in place supported by a Group-
wide risk management framework which builds on the
guidelines of the South African mandatory Code of Practice
for noise. This includes a workplace noise assessment,
personal exposure monitoring, silencing of loud equipment,
education and training, medical surveillance reporting and
review. As a preventative measure, employees and
contractors who are exposed to noise levels risks are
screened annually and individuals exposed to high noise
levels undergo audiograms every six months. 
We have focused on reducing the causes of NIHL by
noise attenuation of equipment with sound pressure levels
exceeding 110dB(A). To date, we have silenced underground
fans, pumps and loaders to below 110 dB.
We have achieved our target of reducing our number
of new NIHL cases by 10% by 2010. Newly diagnosed
cases of NIHL were reduced from 45 in 2009 to 40 in
2010 representing a 11.1% improvement. 28 cases were
compensated including three cases from 2009. 
THE HEALTH OF OUR WORKFORCE HAS A DIRECT IMPACT ON OUR
BUSINESS RESULTS AND IS THEREFORE MATERIAL TO THE SUCCESS
OF THE COMPANY.
1 This figure includes VCT offered to both employees and contractors
daily and those in the wellness campaign and will therefore include
employees tested more than once during the year.
2 One active workplace peer educator per 77 employees.
2010
Number of AIDS related deaths 88
Percentage of in service deaths as a result
of AIDS 51%
Number of Voluntary Councelling and
Testing (VCT) conducted 39,006
1
Number of active workplace peer educators 311
2
Number of employees enrolled in wellness
programmes 498
Number of patients on Anti-Retroviral Treatment 1,349 51
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
SCORECARD OF THE REVISED MINING CHARTER
SCORECARD FOR THE BROAD-BASED SOCIO-ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT CHARTER FOR THE SOUTH AFRICAN MINING INDUSTRY 
The Minister of Department of Mineral Resources published the revised Mining Charter in September 2010, along with it the amended Charter
Scorecard. The Scorecard is a scoring sheet on which companies monitor and record compliance with the Charter. The Scorecard has nine
elements of which three absolute elements (see elements one, two and three) that companies have to achieve but the remaining six elements
companies are required to achieve a minimum score of 50% per element.
Progress achieved by
Compliance Compliance
Target Target
Element Description Measure by 2014 by 2010 YTD Actual 2010 Weighting
1 Reporting Has the company reported the Documentary proof of receipt Annually Submit 2010 Annual reports were Y/N
level of compliance with the from the department audited annual submitted over the 
Charter for the Calendar year report by March 2011 past 3 years
2 Ownership Minimum target for effective Meaningful economic 26% 15% At least 18% Y/N
HDSA ownership participation
Full shareholder rights 26% 15% 18%
3 Housing Conversion and upgrading of Percentage reduction of Occupancy rate 124 blocks 3.66% Y/N
and living hostels to attain the occupancy occupancy rate towards of one person as base-line of 
conditions rate of one person per room 2014 target per room which 34 have been 
Conversion and upgrading of Percentage conversion of Family units 
converted to date.
hostels into family units hostels into family units established
(70 bachelor units
52.48%
and 424 Family units) 
4 Procurement Procurement spend with Capital goods 40% 5% 68.71% 5%
& Enterprise HDSA suppliers
Services 70% 30% 67.54% 5%
Development
Consumable goods 50% 10% 71.51% 2%
Multinational suppliers Annual spend on procurement 0.5% of 0.50% Awaiting guidelines 3%
contribution to the social fund from multinational suppliers procurement from DMR
value
5 Employment Diversification of the workplace Top Management (Board) level 40% 20% 33.33% 3%
Equity to reflect the country’s 
Senior Management (Exco) 40% 20% 25.71% 4%
demographics to attain 
Middle Management 40% 30% 38.43% 3%
competitiveness
Junior Management 40% 40% 50.57% 1%
Core Skills 40% 15% Awaiting guidelines 5%
from DMR
TOTAL 43.3%
6 Human Development of requisite skills, HRD expenditure as percentage 5% 3% 4.6% 25%
Resource incl. support for South African of total annual payroll (excl. 
Development based research and development mandatory skills development 
initiatives intended to develop levy)
solutions in exploration, mining, 
processing, technology efficiency 
(energy and water use in mining), 
beneficiation as well as 
environmental conservation 
and rehabilitation
7 Mine Conduct ethnographic community Implement approved community Up-to-date Implementation of WPL 1: Provision of 15%
community consultative and collaborative projects project projects will serve Water and Sanitation NW
development processes to delineate implementation to enhance
WPL 2: Brick 
community needs analysis relationships amongst 
Making Factory
stakeholders leading
WPL 3: Educational
to communities 
Support & Upliftment
owing patronage 
WPL 4: Housing &
to projects
Hostel Conversion
WPL 5: Provision of 
Access to Basic 
Services EC
WPL 6: Institutional 
Support & Capacity 
Development EC 52
SCORECARD OF THE REVISED MINING CHARTER (continued)
Progress achieved by
Compliance Compliance
Target Target
Element Description Measure by 2014 by 2010 YTD Actual 2010 Weighting
7 Mine WPL 7: Multi-Purpose 
community Community Centre EC 
development & Silindini Bridge
(continued)
EPL 1: Improving Health 
Care Services
EPL 2: Commercial 
Agri-Business
EPL 3: Community 
Skills Development
EPL 4: Sports and 
Recreation
EPL 5: Provision of 
Water and Sanitation EC
8 Sustainable Improvement of the industry’s Implementation of approved EMPs. 100% Annual progress EMP Performance 12%
development environmental management achieved against Assessment Report 
& growth approved EMPs was submitted to DMR 
as required in terms 
of Regulation 55 of the 
MPRDA, 2002 in 
June 2010. 
To report environmental 
performance against the 
amended Mining Charter 
scorecard, we need to 
seek direction from 
DMR on application of 
definitions and targets.
Improvement of the industry’s Implementation of the tripatite action 100% Annual progress In 2003, Mine Health & 12%
mine health and safety plan on health and safety achieved against Safety Council set an
performance commitments in improvement target
the tripatite action of 20% per annum.
plan on health The current improvement
and safety requirement on fatalities
is 0.05% and Lonmin is 
standing at 0.038%.
Utilisation of South African Percentage of samples in South African 100% establish baseline 0% 5%
based research facilities for facilities
analysis of samples across the 
mining value chain
9 Beneficiation Contribution of a mining Additional production volume Section 26 The beneficiation Beneficiation forum has –
company towards beneficiation contributory to local value addition of the strategy and its been established in 
(this measure is effective beyond the base-line MPRDA modalities of this regard.
from 2012) (percentage implementation 
above baseline) outline the 
beneficiation 
requirements per 
commodity extracted 
in South Africa
Legend
0-25% (Gross non-compliance).
25-50% (Non-compliance).
50-75% (Marginal to acceptable performance).
75-100% (Excellent performance). 53
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
KEY SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE STATISTICS
Marikana Group Group Group Group 
Measurement FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010
Production
PGMs produced
1
oz 1,520,812 1,464,235 1,331,493 1,244,709 1,314,772
Economic
Net cash generated
Customers, consumers 
and investment income
Cash received for products US$ million
Cash return on investment US$ million 1,611 2,016 2,270 1,138 1,442
Suppliers
2
US$ million 1 16 13 33
Cash payments for materials
and services purchased US$ million (429) (395) (445) (486) (473)
Cost of borrowings US$ million (32) (41) (23) (34) (44)
Net cash flows US$ million 1,151 1,596 1,815 621 928
Cash distributed
Human capital 
(salaries and benefits) US$ million 406 492 557 501 659
Social capital US$ million 3.1 3.9 7.3 6.2 8.7
Government taxes US$ million 186 267 245 56 36
Directors remuneration US$ million 979 76
Shareholders distribution US$ million 124 171 186 ––
Cash retained for 
sustainable growth US$ million 426 655 811 51 218
Net cash distributed US$ million 1151 1,596 1,815 621 928
Employees
Employees Number 23,804 24,122 25,967 21,623 23,915
Contractors Number 6,932 8,580 7,758 10,497 9,131
Designated groups employed 
in management on a 
permanent basis Percentage 36.0 37.9 42.3 41.3 43.3
LA
Women employed 
in mining Percentage 1.4 1.4 1.8 2.9 3.22
LA
Women employed
at mining Percentage 4.1 4.9 6.1 6.8 7.04
LA
Employee turnover rate Percentage 1.1 4.1 6.6 23.3 6.6
Employees and contractors 
trained in ABET Number 1,681 1,389 2,866 1,139 793
Occupational Health and Safety
Fatalities Number 633 33
RA
LTIFR Incidents/million 
hours worked 12.50 10.80 6.27 6.21 5.87
3 RA
New NIHL cases diagnosed Number 862
4
624 236 45 40
NIHL cases compensated Number 570 490 229 45 28
RA
Diagnosed and treated
tuberculosis cases
5
Number 338 504 533 472 528
LA
HIV/AIDS related deaths Number 154 112 95 110 88
Employees for VCTs conducted Number 3,236 13,761 18,692 4,680 39,000
6
Patients on ART
(excludes PMR)
7
Number 587 836 989 962 1,349
Patients on the wellness 
programme Number N.D.A N.D.A 1150 518 498 54
KEY SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE STATISTICS (continued)
Marikana Group Group Group Group 
Measurement FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010
Environment
Total freshwater intake m
3
10,858,464 11,795,482 9,256,244 8,885,360 8,005,092
RA
Total freshwater intake efficiency m
3
/PGM 7.14 8.06 6.95 7.14 6.09
Electricity MWHr 1,617,771 1,619,922 1,575,917 1,481,744 1,380,218
RA
Electricity efficiency MWHr/PGM 1.06 1.11 1.18 1.19 1.05
Energy Terajoules 7,348 7,434 6,555 6,613 6,215
RA
Energy efficiency GJ/PGM 4.83 5.08 4.92 5.31 4.73
Greenhouse gas emissions Kilotonnes 
CO
2
equivalent 1,775 1,673 1,659 1,595 1,534
RA*
Greenhouse gas efficiency Kilotonnes 
CO
2
equivalent/
PGM 1.17 1.14 1.25 1.28 1.17
Tailings disposed 
to tailings facilities Kilotonnes 15,519 14,487 12,649 11,478
8
11, 038
Waste rock disposed 
to rock dumps Kilotonnes 1,376 1,203 1,128 1,343 1,602
Hazardous waste disposed 
of to landfill and by incineration m
3
8,973 7,038 N.A N.A N.A
Hazardous waste disposed 
of to landfill and by incineration Tonnes N.A N.A 42,857 55,906 50,562
General waste to landfill m
3
52,559 53,110 N.A N.A N.A
Tonnes N.A N.A 8,279 7,199 9595
Average sulphur dioxide emissions Tonnes/day 7.4 11.3 9.1 11.1 14.1
LA
Communities
Percentage spend of our 
financial commitments on local 
economic development projects 
as per the SLP by 2010 Percentage N.A N.D.A 24 41 57.11
9
Rand Value spent on 
Approved SLP Projects Rand N.A N.D.A 42,120,000 28,768,000 28,175,000
RA
N.D.A – No data available. Where it is indicated that no data is available, this is primarily as a result of low confidence in the accuracy of the data or an absence
of measurement of the data.
N.A. – Not applicable.
LA – Limited Assurance provided by KPMG.
RA – Reasonable Assurance provided by KPMG.
RA* – Reasonable Assurance by KPMG was only provided on Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions which equals 1,529 CO
2
equivalent Kilotonnes.
1 A correction was required to the PGM production data to align to the data released in the Annual Report. As a result, the efficiencies have been adjusted for
water, electricity, energy and greenhouse gas.
2 We have a 30 day payment policy on services and procurement.
3 In 2010, we have improved the capturing of man-hours worked at our operations, the denominator used for calculating LTIFR. As a result the LTIFR in prior
years may have been overstated, but we believe the difference to not be material. It is not possible to restate the previous data.
4 In 2006, audiogram baselines for all employees were determined.
5 This was incorrectly published prior to 2009 – the data represents total tuberculosis cases and not only pulmonary tuberculosis cases.
6 This figure includes VCT offered to employees daily (average of 2000 tests a month), the wellness campaign and does not exclude those employees tested
twice.
7 PMR patients access ART through their membership of the private medical aid schemes.
8 This figure was incorrectly reported in 2009 as 17,068 kilotonnes.
9 A full reconciliation will be carried out at the end of the five year period.
For further details on the assurance provided by KPMG please refer to the web-based Sustainable Development Report for the full
assurance opinion. “WE ASPIRE TO CONTINUE IMPROVING THE DEPTH
AND VALUE OF OUR ANALYSIS, THEREBY SUPPORTING
LONMIN AS IT INVESTS FOR THE FUTURE.”
Troye Brady
MARKET INTELLIGENCE SUPPORTS FUTURE INVESTMENT DECISIONS
Mining is a capital intensive business that requires making significant long
term financial commitments such as sinking the next shaft or building the
next smelter. Access to market intelligence that provides clear and detailed
information to support the company’s decision making is crucial to such
long term commitments. Since 2007, Lonmin has reorientated its marketing
function from a sales and logistics department to one that also focuses on
collating, interpreting and forecasting the PGM markets. Over the last three
years we have grown the expertise within the department and altered our
interaction with our customers to a symbiotic relationship where the
exchange of supply demand information helps both Lonmin and our
customers keep abreast of market dynamics. 
As a department we process, dissect and put into context the
information and data shared by our customers, media and other sources
and translate it to a core set of information tools that can be used by the
various departments – from long term business planning and Capital
Projects through to our Process division – who all utilise our market
intelligence to guide their thinking. Our annual markets day sessions at 
which we share our insights and PGM market views, attended by analysts,
fund managers and other market stakeholders, have grown in prominence
over the last few years. 
CASE STUDY: MARKETING
55 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 56
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1. 2. 3.
4. 5. 6.
7. 8. 9.
10. 11. 57
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
1. Roger Phillimore (61) Chairman
(British and South African)
Roger was appointed Chairman in 2009,
having served as an independent Non-
executive Director since 1997, and also
chairs the Nomination Committee. Born
and raised in South Africa, Roger is a
graduate in economics and law and has
career-long experience of the international
mining industry. He is a non-executive
director of Harry Winston Diamond
Corporation and his previous non-
executive experience includes Engelhard
Corporation. 
4. Simon Scott (52) Executive Director
(South African and British)
A South African registered Chartered
Accountant, Simon joined the Company
and the Board in September 2010 and
will become CFO in November. A
graduate with accounting and commerce
degrees, he also attended the
management development programme
at the University of Cape Town. He has
held a number of financial management
roles in South Africa, with local and
global employers, including a total of nine
years with Anglo Platinum. Most recently
he was CFO of JSE-listed Aveng, an
engineering and construction group
with significant involvement in the 
mining sector.
7. Len Konar (56) Independent 
Non-executive Director (South African)
Appointed to the Board and the Audit &
Risk and Nomination Committees in March
2010, Len holds degrees in accounting
and commerce from South African and
US universities. After qualifying as a
Chartered Accountant, he pursued an
academic career at the University of
Durban-Westville, then spent six years with
the Independent Development Trust as
head of investments and internal audit. He
now has a broad-ranging business career,
chairing the boards of leading South African
companies including Exxaro Resources
and serving on others including Sappi
and the South African Reserve Bank. 
A member of the King Committee on
Corporate Governance, he is also a
director of the Securities Regulation
Panel and the Institute of Directors.
10. Jim Sutcliffe (54) Independent
Non-executive Director (British)
Appointed in 2007, Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee and a member 
of the Audit & Risk and Nomination
Committees. An actuary by profession,
Jim has extensive UK and South African
business experience, including senior
executive roles with Prudential UK and
Old Mutual, being CEO of the latter for 
7 years. He is a director of the Financial
Reporting Council and chairs the UK
Board for Actuarial Standards, and is
also a director of Liberty Group and
Liberty Holdings, Sun Life Financial and
chairman of FXPro.
2. Ian Farmer (48) Chief Executive Officer
(British and South African)
Ian joined the Company in 1986 and after
working in UK and Zambian operations, he
was appointed Finance Director of Lonmin
Platinum in South Africa in 1995, holding
this role until he joined the Board and
transferred to London in 2001. He was
appointed as CEO in September 2008,
following seven years as Chief Strategic
Officer. A chartered accountant with a
B.Com. (Hons) degree, he has now
completed his relocation to Johannesburg to
be based closer to our operational assets.
5. Karen de Segundo (63) Independent 
Non-executive Director (Dutch)
Appointed in 2005, Karen is a member of
the Audit and Risk, Nomination and Safety
& Sustainability Committees. A graduate in
law, with an MBA from a US university, she
spent more than 30 years working globally
with Shell, becoming their first female
country head in 1983. After 2 years as CEO
of Shell’s global Gas & Power business, 
she spent 5 years developing and leading
Shell’s renewable energy business. Karen is
a Non-executive Director of British American
Tobacco (where she chairs the Corporate
Social Responsibility Committee) and
bioethanol producer Ensus, a director of
Pöyry and a member of the supervisory
boards of E.ON and Ahold.
8. Michael Hartnall (68) Senior Independent
Director (British)
Appointed in 2003, Michael chairs the Audit
& Risk Committee and is a member of the
Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
A chartered accountant, he held senior
general and financial management positions
in a number of manufacturing companies,
culminating in 16 years as FD of Rexam. 
He is also a Non-executive Director of BAE
Systems, and chairs that company’s Audit
Committee. He was a member of the
Hampel Committee which devised the 
first version of the UK’s Combined Code. 
11. Jonathan Leslie (59) Independent
Non-executive Director (British)
Appointed to the board in 2009, he is
a member of the Remuneration and
Nomination Committees, and chairs
the Safety & Sustainability Committee. After
graduating in Jurisprudence and qualifying
as a barrister, Jonathan spent 26 years with
Rio Tinto, including 9 years’ service on the
board. His roles at Rio Tinto included Mining
Director and Chief Executive of the Copper,
and Diamonds and Gold Product Groups. 
He subsequently was CEO of Sappi and the
Executive Chairman of Nikanor and 
is currently CEO of Extract Resources.
3. Alan Ferguson (52) Chief Financial
Officer (British)
A Business Economics and Accountancy
graduate and Chartered Accountant,
Alan was appointed as CFO and a
director in 2007, having previously been
Finance Director of BOC and Inchcape
during a career spanning a range of
financial management roles. As part of
the planned transfer of operational
management to South Africa, he will
relinquish the CFO role after the 2010
results are announced, remaining on the
Board as an Executive Director until he
leaves the Company at the end of the
calendar year as planned.
6. David Munro (55) Independent
Non-executive Director (British)
Appointed to the Board in 2007, he is
also a member of the Nomination and
Safety & Sustainability Committees.
David is currently Development Director
of Kazakhmys Plc, in which role he is
responsible for modernising and
improving operations and the delivery of
strategic development initiatives. He was
formerly CEO of RMC Group Plc, Chief
Development Officer of BHP Billiton Plc
and a director of Billiton Plc responsible
for its global aluminium and base metals
businesses. A mining engineering
graduate, he has extensive experience
of mine management in South Africa. 
9. Cyril Ramaphosa (57) Non-executive
Director (South African)
Cyril was nominated by Shanduka, Lonmin’s
principal BEE partner of which he is the
controlling shareholder, and appointed to
the Board in July 2010. A law graduate, 
he was the first General Secretary of the
National Union of Mineworkers and
assisted in building it into the most
powerful union in South Africa. In 1991, 
he was elected Secretary General of the
ANC and led the team negotiating the 
end of apartheid, subsequently chairing the
Assembly which drafted the country’s first
democratic constitution. He then moved into
the private sector, founding Shanduka Group
which he continues to chair. He is also
Chairman of MTN and Mondi and serves on
the board of a number of other companies
and advisory bodies, including South
Africa’s National Planning Commission. 58
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
1. Ian Farmer (48) Chief Executive Officer
(British and South African)
Biography included in Board of Directors section on page 57.
2. Alan Ferguson (52) Chief Financial Officer (British)
Biography included in Board of Directors section on page 57.
3. Simon Scott (52) Chief Financial Officer-designate
(British and South African)
Biography included in Board of Directors section on page 57.
4. Mahomed Seedat (54) Chief Operating Officer (South African)
Mahomed joined Lonmin in September 2007. He was previously
with BHP Billiton where he was latterly President of their Energy
Customer Sector Group and a member of BHP Billiton’s
Executive Committee. Prior to that, he held several positions with
that company, including President and Chief Operating Officer of
Ingwe Coal, and President and Chief Operating Officer Aluminium
Southern Africa as well as a number of roles in their Aluminium
Customer Sector Group. Before joining BHP Billiton, Mahomed
worked for Anglo Coal.
5. Albert Jamieson (52) Chief Commercial Officer
(British)
Albert joined Lonmin in 1989 after 8 years at Impala Platinum,
where he was responsible for their concentrator operations.
At Lonmin, he has held a number of senior management and
executive positions in the mine production and commercial areas
of the business including responsibility for investments in Africa,
South America, North America, Australia and Japan. The
commercial portfolio currently comprises business development,
strategy, marketing and sales, exploration, legal and life of
business planning.
6. Theuns de Bruyn (41) EVP , Process Division (South African)
Theuns joined Lonmin in November 2006, having worked for
BHP Billiton for nearly 20 years, where he was most recently
Business Development Manager for their Strategy and Business
Development function. Prior to that, he held a number of other
roles at BHP Billiton, including General Manager of the Tubatse
Ferro-chrome facility as well as other positions in the ferro-chrome
and aluminium sectors.
7. Mark Munroe (41) EVP , Mining (South African)
Mark joined Lonmin in March 2008 in the Mining business,
becoming VP Capital Projects & Engineering before being
appointed as EVP Mining in June 2009. Mark joined Lonmin from
DRDGold, where he spent six years, holding a number of senior
management positions including General Manager of DRDGold
and CEO of DRDCapital. Prior to that, he worked for AngloGold
for 12 years. He is a mining engineer and also has a degree in
economics.
8. Barnard Mokwena (46) EVP , Human Capital & External Affairs
(South African)
Barnard joined Lonmin in October 2005, having previously
worked in senior management positions in a range of sectors for
a number of companies including Sentech and the South African
Rail Commuter Corporation.
9. Karishma Sewpersad (31) Principal, Shanduka Resources
(South African)
Karishma joined the Exco in July 2010 following the closing of 
the transaction with Shanduka. Her career began as a chemical
engineer for Xstrata where she progressed to a managerial
position over the space of four and a half years in the ferrochrome
industry. She then joined BHP Billiton as a Commercial Analyst in
their Coal division. Today, Karishma is a Principal for Shanduka
Resources and serves as a director on Shanduka’s other
investments in the mining industry.
10. Rowan Smith (46) Managing Director, Shanduka Resources
(South African)
Rowan has attended Exco meetings by invitation since July 2010,
when the Shanduka transaction closed. He has almost two
decades experience of the minerals and merchant banking
industries, including mine geological evaluation work both in
industry and banking, and four years as a Director of Investec’s
Resource Finance Division. His background in natural resources
and investment banking led to his appointment as MD of
Shanduka Resources, the investment vehicle controlling all of
Shanduka’s investments in the mining sector.
1. 2. 3. 4. 5.
6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 59
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE
This report combines the Directors’ Report required to be produced by law and the corporate governance statement required by
the Disclosure & Transparency Rules. It also includes sections reporting on the role and work of the Audit and Risk Committee 
and the Nomination Committee, respectively required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules and the Combined Code. The
Directors’ Remuneration Report is contained in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 78 to 95.
1. Governance of the Company
The Company is led and controlled by the Board of Directors. The Board is fully committed to the highest standards of
corporate governance which it believes will support the long term success of the Company. 
As an English-incorporated company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, Lonmin is subject to 
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC). For the year under
review, we were subject to the version of the Combined Code published in June 2008 and the revised version of the 
Turnbull Guidance published in October 2005, both of which are available from the FRC website, www.frc.org.uk. 
During the year to 30 September 2010 and to the date of this report, the Company has in all respects complied with 
the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
In June 2010, the FRC published The UK Corporate Governance Code which supersedes the Combined Code and is
applicable for companies with accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010. The Board has reviewed the provisions
of the new Governance Code and believes it can comply with all of these recommendations. In addition, the Board has
decided that all Directors should stand for re-election on an annual basis, commencing at the Company’s Annual General
Meeting in January 2011.
Substantially the whole of the Company’s business is based in South Africa, and our principal operating subsidiaries are
subject to the provisions of the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009, more commonly known as ‘King III’. Whilst
the Company itself is not subject to King III, the Board has reviewed the recommendations in that report and identified four
minor areas where adopting the provisions on a voluntary basis is felt likely to confer advantage to the Company and its
shareholders.
2. How does the Board of Directors operate?
2.1 Appointments to the Board
The Company’s Articles of Association specify that there shall be between four and fifteen Directors at all times, and confers
power on the Board to fill a vacancy. To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new
Directors to the Board, a Nomination Committee has been created, whose work is more fully described in section 7 of this
report. Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria, always having regard to the benefits that diversity of
background can bring. In the case of candidates for Non-executive directorships, care is taken to ascertain whether they have
sufficient time available to fulfill their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities. As part of this process, candidates
disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any changes. The terms and
conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors are available for public inspection and a sample letter of appointment 
is provided on the Company’s website.
2.2 The Board of Directors
The Board currently has eleven members, comprising a Non-executive Chairman, seven Non-executive Directors and three
Executive Directors. The names of the current directors and short biographical details are set out on page 57. All served
throughout the year, save for the following:
• Len Konar and Cyril Ramaphosa, who were appointed to the Board as Non-executive Directors on 11 March 2010 and
13 July 2010 respectively. 
• Simon Scott, who was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director on 27 September 2010. Upon publication of 
the final results for 2010, Mr Ferguson will relinquish, and Mr Scott will assume, the role of Chief Financial Officer (CFO).
As previously advised, Mr Ferguson will remain on the Board as an Executive Director until he leaves the business at the
end of 2010.
In addition, Sivi Gounden served as a Non-executive Director until his resignation on 16 October 2009, and Peter Godsoe
also served as a Non-executive Director until his retirement from the Board on 28 January 2010.
In May 2010, the Company announced that Mahomed Seedat, currently Chief Operating Officer, will relinquish his 
current position on 31 December 2010 and join the Board as a non-independent Non-executive Director with effect from 
1 January 2011.
2.3 Board balance and independence
The Board believes that it has an acceptable number of members with a sufficiently diverse balance of backgrounds,
experience and skills to discharge its functions effectively and to manage succession issues, but without being so large 
as to be unwieldy. The quality of the individual Directors and the Board’s composition is a key contributor to the Board’s
effectiveness; importantly, no one individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the decision-taking. The Board keeps
the membership of its Committees under review, to ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience. It is satisfied that all
Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals. 
Mr Ramaphosa was nominated to the Board by Shanduka, the parent company of Incwala Resources, Lonmin’s BEE
partner. As such, the Board does not judge that Mr Ramaphosa is independent. However, all of the other serving Non-
executive Directors are regarded as independent by the Board, as was the Chairman on his appointment. 60
2. How does the Board of Directors operate? (continued)
2.3 Board balance and independence (continued)
The experience and international diversity of the Non-executive Directors in office at the date of this report can be
summarised as follows:
Industry sector experience Number
Natural Resources 4
Financial Services 2
Manufacturing 1
Total 7
Current country of residence Number
United Kingdom 4
South Africa 2
Kazakhstan 1
Total 7
A number of the Non-executive Directors have lived and worked in countries other than those in which they currently
reside, and the majority have some link with South Africa as evidenced in the biographical details on page 57.
2.4 Leadership of the Board
Prior to Roger Phillimore’s appointment as Chairman in March 2009, he had served on the Board as a Non-executive Director
for more than nine years. Notwithstanding this, the Board was fully satisfied that he had demonstrated complete
independence, robustness of character, judgement and action throughout this time and readily concluded that he was
independent on his appointment as Chairman. 
Mr Phillimore’s role as leader of the Board is touched on in his remarks on page 5, including the use of an external
facilitator in connection with the effectiveness review, which extended to his role as Chairman. There were no material issues
in relation to his chairmanship raised in, or actions resulting from, that review.
2.5 How do we assess and refresh the Board?
There are three key mechanisms by which we attempt to ensure that the Directors continue to provide suitable leadership 
and direction to the Company:
1) Performance evaluation;
2) Succession planning; and
3) Periodic re-election by shareholders – as noted above, we intend to adopt annual re-election from the 2011 AGM.
1) Performance evaluation
The Board considers that annual evaluations are critical to maintaining an effective, challenging and dynamic Board. 
By acting on the results of the previous year’s evaluation, which was undertaken internally by the Chairman, the Board
strives to achieve a continuous cycle of evaluation, targeted actions and performance improvement. Two material issues
were identified in last year’s evaluation: 
Issue Resolution
Senior operational management should be based Ian Farmer, the CEO, relocated to South Africa in January 2010. 
in South Africa close to the mining operations in Alan Ferguson, the CFO, decided not to relocate as a result of 
order to enhance day to day management and which Simon Scott was appointed to the Board in September 2010.
communications and to enable more effective Mr Scott will assume the position of CFO in November 2010 and 
engagement with South African stakeholders. will be based in South Africa. The Board also decided to relocate
the majority of the London head office functions to South Africa. 
Restructure meetings to increase time with A third day was added to each of the bi-annual Board visits to 
senior and executive managers in South Africa. South Africa.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 61
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
2. How does the Board of Directors operate? (continued)
2.5 How do we assess and refresh the Board? (continued)
1) Performance evaluation (continued)
As in 2009, the Chairman held 1:1 meetings with each Director during the year. In addition, we felt this year that it was
appropriate to appoint an experienced external facilitator to assist the Board with an evaluation of its performance and
effectiveness, also extending to that of its Committees. The facilitator chosen had no prior links to or involvement with
Lonmin, and is free from any conflict of interest. The process involved structured interviews on a 1:1 basis with each 
of the Directors and the Secretaries to the Board and Committees and the facilitator observed a number of meetings. 
The scope of the evaluation focused on the Board and its Committees as a whole rather than the Directors individually
and all feedback was provided on a non-attributable basis. The key findings from the review were presented to the 
Board in November 2010, and helped establish the key priorities for performance improvement in 2011. In particular, 
the Board wished to be more closely involved in contributing to the premises underpinning the development of strategy
proposals, and to increase support for the delivery of Lonmin’s Social & Labour Plans and other transformation initiatives.
A Transformation Committee has therefore been formed and empowered to support, advise and provide counsel to
management as appropriate, under the chairmanship of Cyril Ramaphosa.
Under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, Michael Hartnall, the Board met in November 2010 without
the Chairman present to discuss the findings of the review in relation to his effectiveness as Chairman. There were no
areas of concern or any actions arising from this session.
2) Succession planning
The Board aims to review succession plans for all key management roles including the Executive Directors on an annual
basis. The purpose of this is to mitigate the risk of key roles not having one or more identified successors and to review
potential development opportunities and career plans for talented individuals.
3) Re-election of Directors
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, all Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by
shareholders after first appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years. Where a Non-executive
Director (save for the Chairman) has served more than three three-year terms, they are obliged to do so on an annual
basis. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that directors of FTSE 350 companies seek re-election by
shareholders on an annual basis. The Board has decided to adopt this provision early, on a voluntary basis, and all
Directors in office at the time will therefore seek re-election at the Company’s AGM in January 2011. 
Sufficient biographical and other information (including, in the case of a Non-executive Director, a statement as 
to his or her continued effectiveness and commitment to the role) is provided to enable shareholders to make an
informed decision. 
To this end, the Nomination Committee has carried out formal performance evaluations of all the Non-executive
Directors and concluded that each is effective and continues to demonstrate commitment to his or her respective role.
Further information is contained in the Directors’ biographies on page 57 and in the Annual General Meeting circular. 
2.6 What is the role of the Board? 
The Board provides the entrepreneurial leadership, direction and control of the Company and is the custodian of the
Company’s strategic aims, vision and values. It assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are, and will
continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives and takes account of safety, environmental and social
factors when considering matters put before the Board. All Directors are free to express their views and may ask that these 
be recorded in the minutes where appropriate.
The Board is the senior decision-making forum in the Company, and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its
decision, the most material of which fall into the key areas listed below:
• Strategy and direction, including risk tolerance;
• Financial reporting and control;
• Social, environmental and ethical matters;
• Contracts and financial commitments;
• External communications;
• Corporate governance;
• Remuneration; and
• Board composition and membership.
Subject to legislation, the Company’s Articles of Association and any directions given by special resolution, the business
of the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all powers of the Company including the power to authorise
the issue and buy back of the Company’s shares (subject to the authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in
general meeting).
Whilst all Directors have equal responsibility in law for managing the Company’s affairs, it is the role of executive
management to run the business within the parameters laid down by the Board and to produce clear, accurate and timely
reports to enable the Board to monitor and assess management’s performance. The executives make full use of the diverse
range of backgrounds, knowledge, skills, expertise and experience that the Non-executive Directors bring to the Company. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 62
2. How does the Board of Directors operate? (continued)
2.6 What is the role of the Board? (continued)
The Chairman routinely holds discussions with Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-executive Directors have access to the Executive Committee members (see Section 10 below) and with the
operational management team reporting to the Executive Committee through a range of working sessions, site visits and
presentations, as well as a number of less formal occasions.
During calendar 2010, the Board met nine times in formal meetings. The total time spent on the broad themes noted
below during these meetings was as follows:
Inevitably, any agenda item can involve a degree of overlap between two or more of the categories given above.
2.7 What are the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer?
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are clearly separated and set out in writing. 
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its composition is appropriate and that it is effective,
setting its agenda, facilitating the effective contribution of all Directors, and especially ensuring that there is a constructive
relationship between the Executive and Non-executive Directors. The Chairman also has primary accountability for providing
strategic guidance to the executive team and monitoring the performance of the business, and for ensuring that there is
effective communication with shareholders.
The role of the Chief Executive Officer is to provide leadership to the executive team in running the business, to develop
proposals for the Board to consider in all areas reserved for its judgement and to oversee the efficient and effective
implementation of Board-approved actions.
Executive management, led by the Chief Executive Officer, run the business. In particular, they develop strategy for
consideration by the Board, ensuring there is adequate opportunity for constructive challenge by the Non-executive Directors,
implement Board-approved strategy and furnish the Board with all information reasonably required to monitor the efficient 
and effective conduct of the business.
2.8 What is the role of the Non-executive Directors?
The Non-executive Directors are expected to contribute individually and collectively to:
• The consideration and approval of strategy, including setting an agreed tolerance of risk; 
• Assessment of the management of risk and the strength of the internal control environment;
• The setting of targets and the subsequent monitoring of performance, providing challenge to the executive where
appropriate;
• The selection, appointment, pay and, where appropriate, removal of the executives leading the business and the
succession planning necessary to support this; and
• Effective governance (in terms of (1) compliance with applicable Codes, (2) ensuring stakeholders’ needs are adequately
considered and addressed and (3) in overseeing the internal management arrangements of the Company) to ensure
shareholders’ interests are protected.
2.9 How often does the Board meet, and who attends?
The Board met formally on nine occasions during the year, of which six were scheduled meetings. The scheduled Board
meetings included two three-day trips to South Africa. Aside from meeting commitments, the Non-executive Directors also
make themselves available to management whenever required and there are numerous regular contacts outside the Board
meeting schedule. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE
35.0%
9.6%
5.5%
49.9%
Governance
Risk
Strategic
Operational 63
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
2. How does the Board of Directors operate? (continued)
2.9 How often does the Board meet, and who attends? (continued)
Attendance at the Board meetings was as follows:
Scheduled meetings Extra meetings
Number of Number of 
meetings held Number of meetings held Number of 
during time meetings during time meetings 
Director in office attended in office attended
Ian Farmer 663 3
Alan Ferguson 663 3
Peter Godsoe 201 0
Sivi Gounden 000 0
Michael Hartnall 663 3
Len Konar 331 1
Jonathan Leslie 663 2
David Munro 663 3
Roger Phillimore 663 3
Cyril Ramaphosa 110 0
Simon Scott 000 0
Karen de Segundo 663 3
Jim Sutcliffe 663 3
In addition, six ad hoc meetings of a committee of the Board were also held to issue formal approvals or deal with other
procedural matters which did not require the participation of the full Board. 
Mr Godsoe advised the Chairman in October 2009 of his intention to retire from the Board, but agreed that this would
only become effective at the conclusion of the AGM held in January 2010, at which meeting he was due to seek re-election.
While he made himself available to management and the Board and provided advice on a number of subjects between these
dates, he was unavailable on the date of the November 2009 meeting and, as he is resident in Canada, was not asked to
travel for the January 2010 meeting since this was held immediately prior to the AGM at which he would retire from the Board.
Whenever a Director is unable to participate in a meeting, either in person or remotely, the Chairman will speak to them
ahead of time to solicit their views on key items of business, in order that these can be presented at the meeting and influence
the debate.
2. 10 What Committees support the Board in its work?
The Board has established four formal Committees and provides sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Membership of these Committees during the year to 30 September 2010 and to the date of this report (except where stated
otherwise) is shown below.
Safety and 
Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability
Non-executive Directors
Peter Godsoe Member
1
Member
1
Sivi Gounden Member
2
Chairman
2
Michael Hartnall Member Chairman Member
Len Konar Member
3
Member
3
Jonathan Leslie Member Member Chairman
4
David Munro Member Member
Roger Phillimore Chairman
Cyril Ramaphosa
5
Karen de Segundo Member Member Member
Jim Sutcliffe Chairman Member Member 
Executive Director
Ian Farmer Member
1 To 28 January 2010
2 To 16 October 2009
3 From 11 March 2009
4 From 16 October 2010
5 Mr Ramaphosa is not judged to be independent and is therefore ineligible to join any of these Committees. However, his counsel is sought 
whenever appropriate
In November 2010 the Board created a Transformation Committee, to oversee the delivery of the Group’s obligations under 
its Social and Labour Plans and other empowerment objectives. The composition and terms of reference of this Committee
will be finalised by early 2011.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 64
2. How does the Board of Directors operate? (continued)
2. 10 What Committees support the Board in its work? (continued)
The roles of each of the Board Committees are described later in this report, or in the separate Remuneration Committee
Report. The interaction between the Board, its Committees and the management of the Company can be summarised as follows:
2.11 How does the Board manage any conflicts of interest?
Under the Companies Act 2006, directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, a direct
or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest with the company. The Act further provides that there is no breach
if the relevant matter has been authorised in advance. In line with the Act, the Company’s Articles of Association contain
provisions which enable the Board to authorise such conflicts.
In March 2009, the Board approved a procedure to consider and manage any conflicts. In essence, this requires that
when a Director becomes aware that he or she:
• is in a ‘situation’; or
• has an interest in an existing or proposed transaction in which the Company has an interest 
then they are required to notify the Board in writing of the nature of the situational or transactional conflict, as soon as
possible and certainly prior to any transaction being concluded. Directors are not counted in the quorum for the authorisation
of their own actual or potential conflicts. Authorisations that are granted are recorded by the Company Secretary in a register
of conflict authorisations. Directors have a continuing duty to update the Board on any changes to these conflicts and in any
event the Board carries out reviews annually. The interests of new Directors are reviewed by the Board at the first meeting
following their appointment.
An annual review of the Directors’ interests and other appointments was carried out in March 2010. 
Other than the agreements relating to the investment by Shanduka Resources (Proprietary) Limited (a company ultimately
controlled by Cyril Ramaphosa) in Incwala Resources (Proprietary) Limited, the Company’s Black Economic Empowerment
partner and the loans made by the Company to facilitate that investment, further details of which are set out in paragraph 4.3
below, no Director had a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Company’s business at any time
during the year.
The interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the year, and to the date of this report in the Company’s
shares are shown in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 78 to 95. Save for Mr Ramaphosa, no Director held any
beneficial interest in the share capital of any other Group company at any time during the year or to the date of this report.
2.12 How do we support the Board?
The Board is supplied with regular, comprehensive and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables it to discharge
its duties. All Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of the Executive Directors or management.
The Chairman advocates that all Directors continually update their skills and knowledge, and develop the familiarity with
the Company’s operations needed to fulfil their role, and a number of Non-executive Directors have visited the operations
during the year, in addition to organised Board visits. The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and
updating all Directors’ knowledge and capabilities, both on appointment and subsequently as necessary. This includes a full,
formal and tailored induction programme, briefings on the legal, regulatory (including environmental, safety and social matters),
financial and competitive environments in which the Company operates and, when appropriate, the opportunity to meet a
range of major shareholders and external advisors. Copies of sell-side analysts’ notes on the Company are circulated to all
Directors and senior executives, as are summaries of analysts’ opinions collected anonymously by the Company’s financial
PR advisors and summaries of shareholders’ views collated by the Company’s joint brokers.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors
Executive 
Committee
(Executive Directors, 
Chief Operating Officer, 
Chief Commercial Officer 
and three Executive 
Vice Presidents plus 
one nominee of 
Shanduka Resources)
Operations 
Committee
(Executive Committee 
members, operational 
& functional VPs and 
certain executives and 
senior managers)
Price and Risk 
Committee
(Executive Directors, 
Chief Commercial Officer, 
VP Treasury & Risk, VP 
Finance (UK), CFO (SA),
Executive Manager, Marketing)
Chief Executive
Officer
Audit and Risk
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Safety and
Sustainability
Committee
Transformation
Committee
Key: Board Committees
Management Committees 65
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
2. How does the Board of Directors operate? (continued)
2.12 How do we support the Board? (continued)
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for information flows to the Board,
facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required, ensuring compliance with Board procedures
and applicable laws and regulation and advising the Board on corporate governance matters. The appointment or removal of
the Company Secretary is a Board decision and his remuneration is overseen by the Remuneration Committee. There is a
procedure in place for Directors to take independent professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the Company’s
expense. 
Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources, plus the power to co-opt such additional support as they may
require from time to time, to undertake their duties. 
2. 13 What remuneration do the Directors receive? 
While the Board is ultimately responsible for all Directors’ remuneration, the Remuneration Committee, which consists solely 
of independent Non-executive Directors, is responsible for:
• determining the remuneration and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors; and
• making recommendations to the Board on the fees offered to the Non-executive Directors, after taking professional advice. 
A report on Directors’ remuneration, including a more detailed description of the role and activities of the Remuneration
Committee is set out on pages 78 to 95. The terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors are available for inspection
at the Company’s registered office and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
2.14 What protection do we offer to Directors? 
In law, Directors are responsible for most facets of the Company’s dealings. As a consequence, they face potentially
significant personal liability under criminal and civil law and the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules,
and face a range of penalties including private or public censure, fines and / or imprisonment. The Company believes that it is
appropriate to protect the individuals prepared to serve on its Board from the consequences of innocent error or omission and
that it is in the Company’s best interests to do so, as it enables us to attract individuals of suitable calibre and character
drawn from diverse backgrounds to act as Directors.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in
certain circumstances for the benefit of Group personnel including the Directors. The insurance policy does not provide cover
where the Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by law, Deeds of Indemnity have
been issued to protect all past, present and future Directors and officers of the Company from all costs and expenses incurred
in the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings are otherwise
disposed of without a finding of fault or the successful application to court for relief from liability. Under the terms of the
indemnities, the Company is permitted to advance funds to meet a Director’s defence costs which, should the Director not 
be exonerated, would be repayable to the Company. The indemnities are expressed to operate only to the extent that the
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy fails to respond to a claim.
3. Relations with shareholders
3.1 Who owns the Company?
Lonmin Plc has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and our UK share register has circa 15,600 registered
shareholders. We also have a secondary listing on the JSE Securities Exchange, South Africa and our South African branch
register has approximately 2,000 beneficial shareholders, including those who hold their shares in dematerialised form in
STRATE. We also have a sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipts programme, with around 750 participants.
Like most listed companies, ownership of the Company’s shares is concentrated in a number of institutional and other
corporate shareholders. The Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in 3% or more of the
Company’s total voting rights up to 12 November 2010:
Percentage of 
the Company’s 
Number of total shares 
shares and and voting Nature of 
voting rights rights
1
Holding
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 6,158,652 3.04 Indirect 
Legal & General Group Plc 7,706,524 3.99 Direct
Prudential plc group companies 24,418,923 12.07 Direct
Vanguard Precious Metals and Mining Fund 10,391,666 5.13 Direct
Xstrata Plc 49,826,225 24.67 Direct
1 Percentages as at date of notification
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held by these shareholders are identical in all respects to the
rights attaching to all the ordinary shares of the Company.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 66
3. Relations with shareholders (continued)
3.2 How do we communicate with our institutional shareholders?
The Combined Code encourages dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Executive Directors have regular discussions with institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in the
Company’s best interests, but no information is shared which is not available to shareholders generally. Detailed feedback
from these visits is shared with the Board and a summary of the views expressed is presented to the next Board meeting. 
In addition, the Chairman periodically offers key shareholders the opportunity of meetings with either himself or the Senior
Independent Director to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters shareholders wish to raise. The Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee, accompanied by either the HR Director or the Company Secretary met with a number of
institutional shareholders and their representative bodies during the year to discuss the Company’s policy on remuneration
and how this is implemented in practice.
The Senior Independent Director, Michael Hartnall, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact
through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
3.3 How do we communicate with our private shareholders?
The Combined Code urges boards to use the AGM to communicate with private investors and to encourage their
participation. The Board has followed these principles for many years. The Notice of Meeting is sent to all shareholders at
least one month in advance. At the meeting, a business presentation is made by the Chief Executive Officer and all Directors
are available to answer questions both during the meeting and informally afterwards.
We give shareholders the opportunity to vote on every substantially different issue by proposing separate resolutions and
use electronic poll voting on all resolutions, with the results of these votes being announced to the markets and displayed on
our website. This enables the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account, whether they are able to attend the meeting
or not, as well as providing a more discreet and democratic method of voting at the meeting. 
The Company has taken advantage of the ability in law to move to a default route of electronic communications with
shareholders, both to save cost, paper and other resources that would be entailed in printing and distributing large numbers
of documents. However, individual shareholders can opt to receive paper documents at any time should they so wish. In
recognition of the needs of private shareholders, the Company’s website contains a range of investor relations materials,
including up-to-date information on the Group’s activities, copies to read or download of all presentation materials given to
institutional investors and of our public reporting documents.
3.4 What is the purpose of the Annual General Meeting?
The AGM is an important event in the corporate year, and is the point at which the Directors place their report on the previous
year’s events and results before the shareholders, and seek certain approvals and authorisations. As seen above, these now
include the re-election of each Board member on an annual basis. Poll voting allows the views of all shareholders to be taken
into account, and votes are routinely cast by those owning more than 70% of the Company’s shares.
The 2011 AGM will be held at 11.00 a.m. on Thursday, 27 January 2011 at The Assembly Hall, Church House
Conference Centre, Dean’s Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ. A separate circular containing the Notice of Meeting,
together with an explanation of the items of special business has been sent to all shareholders and is also available on the
Company’s website.
Among the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM will be ones seeking shareholders’ authority for the Directors to be
empowered to allot equity securities, a limited dis-application of the statutory pre-emption rights and an authority for the
Company to make market purchases of its own shares. Further details of all of these matters are set out in the AGM circular.
3.5 Are we paying a Dividend to shareholders?
As noted in the Chairman’s Statement on pages 4 to 6, the Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 15 US cents
per share to be paid, subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, on 11 February 2011 to shareholders on the registers
at the close of business on 14 January 2011. The Company did not declare an interim dividend for the year ended 
30 September 2010 and therefore the total dividend for the year ended 30 September 2010 will be 15 US cents per share 
(total dividend 2009 – nil).
4. The Company’s business and statutory disclosures
4.1 What is Lonmin’s business?
The principal activities of the Group during the year continued to be mining, refining and marketing of Platinum Group Metals.
Details of revenue, operating profit, principal activities and segmental analysis appear in note 2 to the accounts and a list of
the principal subsidiary undertakings, indicating their main activities, appears in note 34. Detailed information on the Group’s
activities can be found in the Business Review.
Lonmin Plc operates in South Africa as a branch which is registered in that country as an external company, in addition to
the business conducted by its subsidiary undertakings.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 67
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
4. The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
4.2 Business Review
The Companies Act 2006, section 417 requires that the Directors present a Business Review in this report to inform
shareholders and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information that fulfils this requirement, which has been prepared in the light of the recommendations in the ASB’s
Reporting Statement 1, can be found in the sections set out below and is incorporated by reference into this report:
• The Chairman’s Letter on pages 4 to 6;
• The Chief Executive’s Review on pages 7 to 10;
• The Operational Review on pages 12 to 17;
• The Financial Review on pages 20 to 27;
• The discussion of Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 28 to 33;
• The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) on pages 34 and 35 together with the Operational Statistics 
on pages 146 to 148; and
• The Sustainable Development Review on pages 36 to 54.
which collectively contain a discussion of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance
and position of the Company’s business.
We have also been mindful of the best practice guidance published by DEFRA and other bodies in relation to
environmental, community and social KPIs, and the recommendations of the Association of British Insurers in those areas,
when drafting this Business Review.
The Business Review has been prepared to provide the Company’s shareholders with a fair review of the business 
of the Company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing it. It may not be relied upon by anyone,
including the Company’s shareholders, for any other purpose. The Business Review is designed to provide shareholders 
with an understanding of the Company’s business and the environment in which it operates, and of necessity only focuses 
on material issues and facts. The omission of reporting on any specific topic should not be taken as implying that it is not
being addressed.
The Business Review and other sections of this report contain forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-
looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and / or
depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ
materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. No assurance can be given that the forward-
looking statements in the Business Review will be realised. Statements about the Directors’ expectations, beliefs, hopes,
plans, intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions as 
to future events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases outside the Company’s control. The information
contained in the Business Review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to Directors 
at the date of its preparation and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise the Business Review
during the financial year ahead. It is believed that the expectations set out in these forward-looking statements are reasonable,
but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or trends to differ materially. The
forward-looking statements should be read in particular in the context of the specific risk factors for the Company identified 
in the Business Review. The Company’s shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking
statements. Shareholders should note that the Business Review has not been audited or otherwise independently verified.
4.3 Principal events of the year
The principal events of the year are covered in the Business Review. However, from a statutory perspective the key event
during the year concerned the Company’s Black Economic Empowerment partner, Incwala Resources (Proprietary) Limited.
On 10 May 2010, the Company announced that Shanduka Resources (Proprietary) Limited had agreed to acquire a
majority stake in Incwala. To facilitate Shanduka’s participation in this transaction, the Company provided Shanduka with
funding of £200 million in the form of a 5 year interest-bearing loan, secured on Shanduka’s interest in Incwala. 
This loan was part-funded by an equity placing of 9,064,249 new ordinary shares of $1 each (representing approximately
4.69% of the Company’s issued share capital at that time) at a price of 1765p per share to raise gross proceeds of
approximately £160 million. The balance of the funding was provided by the roll-over of existing vendor financing loans 
made by the Company to previous shareholders in Incwala.
There were no material events from 30 September 2010 to the date of this report.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 68
4. The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
4.4 Transactions with Related Parties
In March 2010 the Company announced that it had entered into long-term contracts with two parties to supply low-grade
PGM but chrome-rich tailings to those counterparties, who would construct chrome recovery plants to treat the tailings and
return a chrome-depleted concentrate to Lonmin for further reprocessing. One of the counterparties is the Xstrata-Merafe
Chrome Venture, which involves a subsidiary of Xstrata Plc, which owns a significant shareholding in the Company. The UK
Listing Authority concurred with the Company’s assessment that this transaction was of a revenue nature in the ordinary
course of business, and no shareholder approval was required.
The transaction with Shanduka Resources referred to above resulted in a financial benefit flowing to the selling
shareholders in Incwala Resources (Pty) Ltd. Two of the selling shareholders, being the Thelo Consortium and the Vantage
Consortium included certain individuals who had been nominated by Incwala to serve as directors of Lonmin’s operational
subsidiaries. As such, Thelo and Vantage were considered to be related parties of the Company. Of the £200 million provided
to Shanduka by Lonmin, approximately £96 million of this was used by Shanduka to purchase Thelo and Vantage’s interests
in Incwala. It was these elements of the Shanduka transaction which were therefore technically transactions with related
parties for the purposes of the UK Listing Rules. The quantum of these transactions did not require shareholder approval.
As detailed above, part of the funding provided to Shanduka by Lonmin was funded by an equity placing. Pursuant to the
placing, Xstrata Zinc BV, a subsidiary of Xstrata Plc, subscribed for 2,233,600 new ordinary shares of $1 each at a cost of
approximately £39.4 million and M&G Investment Management Limited, part of the Prudential plc group of companies,
subscribed for 998,377 new ordinary shares of $1 each at a cost of approximately £17.6 million. Both Xstrata Plc and the
Prudential plc group of companies own significant shareholdings in the Company. The quantum of these transactions did not
require shareholder approval.
4.5 Employees
The Group employed 23,900 people in South Africa as at the end of the year. Information on the Group’s policies on
employee recruitment and engagement can be found in the Sustainable Development Review on pages 36 to 54.
4.6 Research and development
Group companies continue to be actively involved in research and development projects in the areas of mineral extraction,
processing and refining.
4.7 Policy on the payment of creditors
The Company complies with, and has registered its support of, the Better Payment Practice Code, available from the Better
Payment Practice Group website, www.payontime.co.uk. The Company has a consistent policy and practice of paying its bills
in accordance with contracts by settling the terms of payment with its suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction,
either by accepting suppliers’ standard terms of payment or by proposing alternative terms but, in either case, then abiding by
the agreed payment terms. Trade creditors of the Company at 30 September 2010 represented 7 days (2009 – 11 days) of its
annual purchases.
4.8 Charitable and political donations
No political donations were made during the year. Lonmin has an established policy of not making donations to any political
party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Charitable donations made by the Group during the year in the United Kingdom amounted to £35,500 ($55,117)
(2009 – £34,659 ($50,868)). During the year, the Group funded a number of long term social welfare and community development
projects in Southern Africa. The Group’s funding for these projects for the year amounted to R1.3 million ($0.2 million) (2009 –
R4 million ($0.5 million)). These amounts are in addition to amounts expensed by the Group as the normal costs of the
operation of its corporate social responsibility programme. A fuller explanation of this expenditure will be contained in the
Sustainable Development Report for the year ended 30 September 2010 which can be downloaded from the Company’s website.
4.9 Share capital and reserves
The issued share capital of the Company at 30 September 2010 is set out in note 26 to the accounts. The rights and
obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of the ordinary shares are
governed by law and the Company’s Articles of Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to receive notice of any general meeting,
to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy and are entitled to participate in any distribution of
income or capital.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them except where the
Company has exercised its rights to suspend voting rights or to prohibit transfer.
The share capital comprises 50,000 sterling deferred shares of £1 each in addition to the ordinary shares of $1 each,
which were created in 2002 and issued to a nominee company by the capitalisation of reserves, in order to comply with the
requirement that a public limited company must have a minimum share capital of £50,000. These shares do not rank pari
passu with the ordinary shares of the Company. The holders of such shares are not entitled to receive notice of any general
meeting or to attend, speak or vote at such meeting, nor are they entitled to participate in any distribution of income or
capital.
The Company has established an employee benefit trust, the Lonmin Employee Share Trust, to facilitate various employee
share schemes. The trustee, who is independent of the Company, does not seek to exercise voting rights on the ordinary
shares held in trust, and a dividend waiver is in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of the trust.
The total share capital and reserves attributable to the Group amounted to $2,709 million at 30 September 2010.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 69
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
4. The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
4. 10 Use of authorities granted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting
At the AGM held on 28 January 2010, shareholders approved an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its
own shares, up to a maximum of 19,308,000 shares (being approximately 10% of the issued share capital) at prices not less
than the nominal value of each share (being $1) and not exceeding 105% of the average mid-market price for the preceding
five business days). The Company made no purchases of its own shares during the year and no shares were acquired by
forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
During the year, the Company allotted 9,238,185 ordinary shares of $1 each, for cash, following the placing to part-
finance the Shanduka transaction, to satisfy the exercise of options or the vesting of awards granted under the Company’s
employee share schemes and to provide the Company’s employee benefit trust with sufficient shares to meet its obligations in
connection with employees’ share schemes.
4.11 Amendment of the Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
4.12 Essential contractual arrangements
Certain Group companies are party to contracts and other arrangements which the Board judges are essential to the business
of the Company.
For any mining company, its mineral rights and mining licences are of crucial importance and therefore the New Order
Mining Licence granted by the South African government’s Department of Mineral Resources to certain Group companies in
respect of the Marikana operations falls into this category, as do the old order mining rights in respect of the Limpopo
operations and the various prospecting rights held by Group companies.
The remaining essential contractual arrangements can be summarised as follows:
• Contracts for the purchase of inputs – while most of the supplies needed to operate the Group’s mines and refining
facilities are secured through competitive tendering in the open market, the Group is heavily dependent on Eskom for the
supply of electricity, and Rand Water in respect of the supply of water. 
• Financing arrangements – the Company and Group have a number of bank facilities which we believe could be replaced
in the open market.
• Contracts relating to labour and services – the principal arrangements essential to our business are collective agreements
with trade unions representing the majority of the Group’s employees, most notably with the National Union of
Mineworkers in South Africa.
• Contracts for the sale of goods – certain Group companies are party to separate contracts with BASF and Mitsubishi,
under which substantially the whole of the Group’s production of finished PGMs for the period under review was sold.
4.13 Significant Agreements – change of control
A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid,
such as debt facilities and employee share plans. None of these are deemed to be significant except for the Company’s
banking facilities in the amount of $888 million spread across three separate facilities with the counterparties generally being
syndicates of different banks. These facilities contain provisions under which, in the event that new terms to continue the
facility are not agreed within 25 days of a change of control, the lender is entitled to give notice cancelling the facility and
declaring all outstanding loans together with accrued interest to become payable within 15 days of such notice.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of
office or employment resulting from a takeover except that certain provisions in some of the Company’s share schemes may
be triggered. These are briefly described below and further information on these schemes and on the Directors’ service
agreements can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 78 to 95.
Awards made under the Stay & Prosper Plan crystallise immediately following a change of control, although they only vest 
and become payable on their normal maturity date (three years from the date of grant) and subject generally to continued
employment of the participant. Directors of the Company are not permitted to hold awards under this Plan.
Awards under the remainder of the share plans will vest to the extent specified by the Remuneration Committee, who will
generally take into account the extent to which the performance targets have been met and such other factors as they believe
to be appropriate in line with the rules of the relevant plans.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 70
5. Accountability and Audit
5.1 What are the Directors’ responsibilities in this area?
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards as adopted by the EU (‘IFRSs’) and applicable law and they have elected to prepare the parent company financial
statements in accordance with the UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select and maintain suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on 
the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors’ Responsibility Statement can be found on page 97.
5.2 How have the Directors discharged their responsibilities in this area?
• The Lonmin Group financial statements are presented in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU. The Group
adopted the US Dollar as its reporting currency in 1998.
• Details of the Group’s financial risk management are described in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 27 and in the
Statement on Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 28 to 33.
• The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future
and that it is, therefore, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. The Directors
have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing
facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Group’s foreseeable cash requirements.
Please refer to the going concern disclosure in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 27.
5.3 Relationships with the external auditors
The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on the financial statements and certain other
disclosures prepared by the Directors. KPMG Audit plc acted as the external auditors to the Lonmin Group throughout the
year. The lead audit partner is based in London and supported by an audit partner based in Johannesburg.
As required under section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, so far as each current Director is aware, there is no
information relevant to the audit of which the Company’s auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that
he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any such information and to ensure that the
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
6. The Audit and Risk Committee 
6.1 What is the role of the Audit and Risk Committee?
The Audit and Risk Committee is a formal Committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of
Association. Its terms of reference were last reviewed by the Board in January 2007 and are compliant with the provisions 
of the Combined Code. A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Company’s website and sets out the primary
purposes of the Audit and Risk Committee, which are:
• To monitor the integrity of the Company’s financial statements and announcements relating to its financial performance
and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements;
• To keep under review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls and risk management systems;
• To monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its material findings; and
• To oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement,
monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness and ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to
provide non-audit services is appropriately applied.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 71
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
6. The Audit and Risk Committee (continued)
6.1 What is the role of the Audit and Risk Committee? (continued)
The Committee is authorised to investigate any matters within its terms of reference, access all Group documents and
information, seek information from any Director or employee of the Group and co-opt any resources (including external
professional assistance) it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties. However, the Committee has no executive function and its primary
objective is to review and challenge rather than assume responsibility for any matters within its remit. Minutes of all meetings
of the Committee (save those recording private discussions with either the internal or external auditors) are circulated to all
Directors and supplemented by a written or verbal update from the Committee Chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any
matters in respect of which action or improvement is required and making recommendations where appropriate. The Committee
presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of this report and the Committee
Chairman attends general meetings of the Company’s shareholders to answer any questions on the Committee’s activities.
6.2 Who are the members of the Audit and Risk Committee?
All independent Directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Board, are eligible to become members of the
Committee, which comprised the following members, any two of whom form a quorum, during the year and to the date of this
report. All members of the Committee must be financially literate.
• Michael Hartnall: an independent Director and a chartered accountant, Mr Hartnall was formerly the finance director of
Rexam, a multinational manufacturer of consumer packaging and is currently a non-executive Director of BAE Systems,
where he chairs the audit committee. He was also a member of the Hampel Committee which produced the first version
of the Combined Code in 1998. He joined the Committee as its chairman in 2003 and the Board has judged that he has
the significant, recent and relevant financial experience necessary to chair the Committee.
• Len Konar: an independent Director who joined the Committee in March 2010. Dr Konar has a strong accounting
background, having previously been professor in and head of the Department of Accountancy at the University of
Durban-Westville. He has extensive knowledge of local business practices in Southern Africa, serving on the audit
committees of a number of leading South African companies, many of which he chairs.
• Karen de Segundo: an independent Director and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee since 2005.
• Jim Sutcliffe: an independent Director who joined the Committee in 2007. Mr Sutcliffe is also a director of the Financial
Reporting Council.
Biographical details of each Director are set out on page 57 of this document. Each member receives an annual fee of
£10,000 for serving as a member of the Committee, or £17,500 in the case of the Chairman. These fees are included in the
table of Directors’ remuneration on page 87. All members of the Committee are provided with appropriate induction into the
role of the Committee and the operation of its terms of reference on appointment. Access to training is provided on an
ongoing basis to ensure that members are able to discharge their duties.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer (South
Africa), VP Finance (UK), VP Treasury and Risk, Head of Internal Audit and the Assistant Company Secretary (who acts as
secretary to the Committee), none of whom do so as of right. The internal and external auditors attend Committee meetings and a
private meeting is routinely held with each of them to afford the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management. 
6.3 How often did the Committee meet, and who attended?
The Committee met five times during the year. Attendance at these meetings was as follows:
Number of meetings Number of 
Director held during time in office meetings attended
Michael Hartnall 55
Len Konar 33
Karen de Segundo 55
Jim Sutcliffe 55
6.4 What did the Audit and Risk Committee do during the year?
The principal business of these meetings was:
November: 
• Review of the annual reporting documents (including the accounts) and consideration of whether to recommend the
same to the Board; 
• Assessment of any material exercises of judgement by management; 
• Consideration of the ‘going concern’ statement; 
• Consideration of the letter of representation from management to the external auditors relating to the accounts; 
• Review of report from the external auditors following their review of the full year accounts; 
• Review of non audit services provided by the external auditors during the year and approval of the fees for the year; 
• Evaluate the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors and agree to recommend to the Board
the external auditors’ reappointment; 
• Private meeting with the external auditors;
• Review of the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems during the year, as prepared by management; 
• Review of a report on the internal controls environment prepared by the external auditors;
• Review of feedback from management confirmation letters completed by senior management;
• Review of matters reported to the external whistleblowing hotline.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 72
6. The Audit and Risk Committee (continued)
6.4 What did the Audit and Risk Committee do during the year? (continued)
March (in South Africa): 
• Review of matters arising from the prior year audit; 
• Review of external auditors’ plan for the half year review and full year audit and approve the fees and engagement letter
for the same;
• Review of internal audit report including an overview of performance against the internal audit plan for the year; 
• Review of outstanding internal and external audit points; 
• Private meeting with the internal auditors; 
• Review of risk management report including results of the “bottom-up” and “top-down” risk reviews; 
• Follow up of feedback from management confirmation letters completed by senior management.
May: 
• Review of interim report (including the accounts) and agree to recommend the same to the Board; 
• Review and approval of the Q2 production report;
• Assessment of any material exercises of judgement by management; 
• Consideration of the letter of representation from management to the external auditors relating to the interim accounts; 
• Review of report from the external auditors following their review of the interim accounts; 
• Private meeting with the external auditors; 
• Review of risk management report; 
• Review of outstanding internal and external audit points; 
• Review of non audit services provided by the external auditors year to date;
• Review of tax update report;
• Receive an update on the insurance renewal.
September (in South Africa): 
• Review of internal audit report including an update on outstanding internal and external audit points; 
• Approval of the scope and focus of the internal audit programme and internal audit budget for the forthcoming financial year; 
• Review of external auditors’ plan for the year end audit; 
• Review of non audit services provided by the external auditors during the year and approve fees for the full year audit; 
• Review of a report on the internal controls environment prepared by the external auditors;
• Review of risk management report including key risks facing the Group following ‘top down’ and ‘bottom up’ risk reviews
and assessment of internal control framework;
• Review of feedback on issues identified during the prior year’s Management Confirmation Letter; 
• Review and approval of the renewal terms and scope of cover of the Group’s insurance programme; 
• Review of matters reported to the external whistleblowing hotline;
• Review of matters reported to the investigations department; and
• Consideration of the effectiveness of the internal auditors. 
The other scheduled meeting was held solely to approve the Q3 production report which incorporated the Company’s
interim management statement.
In addition to the routine business described above, the Committee also undertook the following activities during the year
and in the period to the date of this report:
• Review of accounting and tax issues associated with the placement of new ordinary shares in relation to the Shanduka
transaction;
• Review of FRC consultation document on Guidance for Audit Committees in relation to non audit services provided by
the external auditors;
• Review and approval of policy to obtain services from the external auditors; 
• Review of accounting issues in relation to depreciation and amortisation; and
• Analysis of the alignment between risk and internal audit.
6.5 Is the Committee effective?
The Board appointed an external consultant to facilitate the Board members’ evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and
its Committees. This entailed a series of one to one meetings with each of the Directors and by observing meetings in
session. There were no material issues raised in, or actions resulting from, this review in relation to either the Audit and Risk
Committee or its Chairman.
6.6 How does the Company address internal audit?
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, with a joint reporting line with effect from
1 October to the CFO (previously to the VP , Treasury and Risk). He is supported by an internal audit department comprising
four in-house auditors and PwC who provide specialist services in connection with matters such as IT security and treasury.
A total of 47 assignments were undertaken during the year across a broad cross-section of activities identified by both
management and the Committee, and which align with the principal risks faced by the Company. Internal audit reports are
reviewed with operational management and then delivered to the executive management team, including the Chief Financial
Officer. Material findings and recommendations are summarised to the Committee, who receive regular updates on progress
in addressing the matters raised by internal audits. All audit close-out action points are recorded on a database which is
monitored regularly to ensure that there is full accountability for implementation.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 73
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
6. The Audit and Risk Committee (continued)
6.6 How does the Company address internal audit? (continued)
The Head of Internal Audit is also responsible for the Company’s whistle-blowing programme and heads up the
investigations unit comprising ten investigators.
A review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function was carried out during the year by way of a questionnaire
completed by relevant members of the senior management team and the external auditors. Having considered the results of
this survey and a number of other factors, including the communication and impartiality of the internal audit function, the
Committee concluded that the internal audit function was in all respects effective.
6.7 How does the Committee manage the external auditors?
The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for oversight of the external auditors including approving the annual work plan
and fee budget. The Committee believes that in certain areas it is appropriate, timely and cost effective to engage the external
audit firm to deliver certain services as this enables us to benefit from their understanding of the Group. The Company recently
updated its policy (the Audit Engagement Policy, available on the Company’s website) on the use of the external auditors to
provide such services. 
Under this policy, the external auditors are not permitted to perform any work that they may subsequently need to audit
or which might otherwise either create a conflict of interests or affect the auditors’ objectivity and independence. The Committee
monitors the balance between audit, audit related and non-audit spend to ensure that auditor independence is maintained. 
The policy provides for the following annual authorisation limits: 
Audit related services Non audit services
Chief Financial Officer $200,000 $100,000
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee $500,000 $250,000
Audit and Risk Committee > $500,000 > $250,000
Fees for non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to $0.1 million (2009 – $0.6 million) representing 5% of the
audit and audit related fees. Note 4 provides a breakdown of this expenditure. 
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit related and non-audit fees are not material relative to the income
of the external audit offices and firm as a whole, and that the nature of the services provided are appropriate and in line with
the Company’s policy in this area.
The Audit and Risk Committee appraised the performance, independence and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed
their effectiveness as external auditors. The Committee also considered the external auditors’ compliance with relevant
regulatory, ethical and professional guidance on the rotation of partners, as well as assessing its qualifications, expertise and
resources. A report from the external auditors on their own internal quality procedures was also considered. The Committee
concluded that the external auditors were effective and has recommended to the Board that their re-election should be
proposed to shareholders.
7. Nomination Committee
7.1 What is the role of the Nomination Committee?
The Nomination Committee is a formal Committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of
Association. Its remit is set out in terms of reference that were formally adopted by the Board in November 2006. These are
available from the Company and are displayed on the website. 
The primary purposes of the Committee are: 
• To ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge
and experience of the Board is undertaken;
• To recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to instigate and manage the recruitment
process;
• To ensure the Company’s adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above; and
• To oversee compliance with the Combined Code and other applicable corporate governance regulations.
7.2 Who are the members of the Nomination Committee?
All of the Non-executive Directors are members of the Committee save for Cyril Ramaphosa, whose counsel would be sought
whenever appropriate. The Chairman of the Board chairs the Committee, except when matters pertaining to himself or his
successor are under consideration. Similarly, if the matter under discussion is in relation to his own position, that Non-
executive Director would recuse himself. 
The quorum for a meeting of the Committee is two members. The members of the Committee are considered to be
wholly independent. 
Each member receives an annual fee of £7,500 and the Chairman £12,500. These fees are included in the table of 
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration on page 87. Biographical details of each Director are set out on page 57 of this document.
The Committee is supported by the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and it
has full access to the Chief Executive Officer. It is also empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other
professional advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work and to co-opt such resources as it requires in fulfilling its duties.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE
74
7. Nomination Committee (continued)
7.3 How often did the Committee meet, and who attended?
The Committee met four times during the year. Attendance at these meetings was as follows:
Number of meetings Number of 
Director held during time in office meetings attended
Peter Godsoe 11
Sivi Gounden 00
Michael Hartnall 43
Len Konar 22
Jonathan Leslie 43
David Munro 43
Roger Phillimore 44
Karen de Segundo 44
Jim Sutcliffe 44
7.4 What did the Nomination Committee do during the year?
During the year, the Committee undertook the following:
• Reviewed the Committee’s report within the Annual Report and Accounts and recommended approval of this to the
Board;
• Evaluated the effectiveness of David Munro and Jim Sutcliffe, both of whom retired by rotation and Jonathan Leslie, who
was appointed during the year, concluding that they were able, committed and effective in their roles and had sufficient
time to fulfil their duties;
• Considered the re-election of Roger Phillimore who, having been re-elected the prior year for a one year term only, was
invited to stand for re-election for a three year term in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association; 
• Reviewed the composition of the Board resulting in the subsequent appointment of Len Konar;
• Following his nomination by Shanduka, recommended the appointment of Cyril Ramaphosa to the Board;
• Considered the succession issues arising from Alan Ferguson’s decision not to relocate to South Africa and implemented
a formal process to search for his successor, culminating in the appointment of Simon Scott; and
• Approved the appointment of Mahomed Seedat as a non-independent Non-executive Director with effect from 
1 January 2011.
None of the Directors played any part in the discussion concerning themselves. 
The Committee reports its material findings and decisions to the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes are
circulated to all Directors.
7.5 What is the policy on appointments to the Board?
All recommendations for Board appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria and take into account the
benefits of diversity. A job specification is drawn up which includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of
the time commitment required. Generally, the Committee will engage executive search consultants to assist in ensuring a
comprehensive listing of potential candidates from a range of backgrounds for the Committee’s consideration.
7.6 Is the Committee effective?
The effectiveness of the Committee and its Chairman was considered by the Board as part of the externally-facilitated
evaluation of the Board undertaken during the year. This involved a series of one to one meetings with each of the Directors
and by observing various meetings in session. There were no material issues raised in, or actions resulting from, this review 
in relation to either the Nomination Committee or its Chairman. 75
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
8. Safety and Sustainability Committee 
8.1 What is the role of the Safety and Sustainability Committee?
The Safety and Sustainability Committee is a formal committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles
of Association. Its terms of reference were most recently reviewed by the Board in March 2008 and are available on the
Company’s website.
The primary purposes of the Committee are:
• To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board and, as necessary to the Audit and Risk Committee, on safety and
sustainability including health, environment and community matters, and particularly as pertaining to the risk and
management of these issues within the Group;
• To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board on the Group’s compliance with applicable legal and regulatory
requirements associated with safety and sustainability;
• To assess the effectiveness of management’s attitudes and approach towards, and activities in, managing safety and
sustainability related risk;
• To assess periodically the effectiveness of the Group’s policies, standards and systems for identifying and managing
safety and sustainability related risk;
• To review significant safety and environmental incidents and consider causative factors, consequences and actions
including the impact on employees and third parties and reputational risk;
• To review the Group’s performance indicators in connection with safety and sustainability matters;
• To review the Group’s public disclosures on safety and sustainability matters and approve these as necessary; and
• To report to the Board on developments, trends and / or forthcoming significant legislation on safety and sustainability
matters which may be relevant to the Group’s operations, its assets or employees.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any matter within its terms of reference, to seek any relevant
information that it requires from any Director or employee of the Group and to co-opt any resources it may require to
undertake its duties. The Committee is also authorised to obtain independent legal or other professional advice if it considers
this necessary.
In line with the other Committees of the Board, the Safety and Sustainability Committee does not have any executive
power and the Directors and operational managers retain their full responsibility and accountability for the management of
safety and sustainability matters in the Group.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committee are circulated to all Directors and supplemented by a verbal update from the
Committee’s Chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any material matters which arose from the Committee’s work.
The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of this section
of the Directors’ Report. More detailed information concerning the Group’s sustainability related activities is set out on pages
36 to 54, and in the Company’s Sustainable Development Report, which can be downloaded from the Company’s website.
8.2 Who are the members of the Safety and Sustainability Committee?
The terms of reference for this Committee require a minimum of two independent Non-executive Directors, one of whom shall
be the Chairman of the Committee, and one Executive Director. The Board may, on the recommendation of the Nomination
Committee, appoint or remove members of the Committee, subject to there being at least three members at all times. 
At the request of the Committee’s Chairman, the Chief Operating Officer, the Executive Vice President – Processing (who
is responsible for safety and sustainability issues for the Group) and the Assistant Company Secretary (who acts as Secretary
to the Committee) attend all meetings of the Committee.
The Committee comprised the following members during the year and to the date of this report, except where stated
otherwise:
• Jonathan Leslie: an independent Non-executive Director who joined the Board in June 2009, joined the Safety and
Sustainability Committee in July 2009 and was subsequently appointed its Chairman on 16 October 2009. Mr Leslie 
has significant experience of the mining industry, having spent twenty six years with Rio Tinto in a variety of operational
management roles. 
• Ian Farmer: an Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company who has been a member of the Committee
since September 2008. 
• David Munro: an independent Non-executive Director who joined the Board in August 2007 and was appointed to the
Safety and Sustainability Committee in September 2007. Mr Munro is a mining engineer with significant experience of the
mining industry internationally, including many years working in South Africa.
• Karen de Segundo: an independent Non-executive Director who has been a member of the Committee since January
2007. She has more than 30 years’ executive experience of the natural resources sector, including appointments as CEO
of Shell’s global Gas & Power business unit and of Shell International Renewables.
• Sivi Gounden: an independent Non-executive Director who was Chairman of the Committee until he resigned as a
Director on 16 October 2009.
Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on page 57. Each of the Non-executive Directors on this
Committee receives an annual fee of £7,500 for serving as a member or, in the case of the Chairman, £12,500. These fees are
included in the table of Non-executive Directors’ remuneration on page 87 of this document.
All members of the Committee are provided with appropriate induction into the role of the Committee and the operation
of its terms of reference on appointment. Members are also offered opportunities to visit the operations and community
projects with which the Company is involved.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 76
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE
8. Safety and Sustainability Committee (continued)
8.3 How often did the Committee meet and who attended?
The Committee met four times during the year. Attendance at these meetings was as follows:
Number of meetings Number of 
Director held during time in office meetings attended
Ian Farmer 44
Sivi Gounden 00
Jonathan Leslie 44
David Munro 44
Karen de Segundo 44
8.4 What did the Safety and Sustainability Committee do during the year?
The principal business at these meetings was:
November: 
• Review of safety statistics and trend analysis; 
• Review of environmental statistics and trend analysis;
• Report from external auditors following their assurance review of selected data in the Sustainable Development Reports;
• Review and approve the summary and full Sustainable Development Reports and recommend the same to the Board;
• Review and approve the Committee’s report contained within the Annual Report and Accounts and recommend the
same to the Board.
March (South Africa): 
• Review of safety statistics and trend analysis; 
• Review of environmental statistics and trend analysis;
• Review of health indicators and update on community health issues;
• Review Social and Labour Plan commitments.
June: 
• Review of safety statistics and trend analysis; 
• Review of environmental statistics and trend analysis; 
• Review of health indicators and update on community health issues;
• Review Social and Labour Plan commitments;
• Approve the external auditors’ letter of engagement in relation to the summary and full Sustainable Development Reports;
• Review principal sustainability related risks.
September (in South Africa): 
• Review of safety statistics and trend analysis; 
• Review of environmental statistics and trend analysis;
• Review of health indicators and update on community health issues;
• Review Social and Labour Plan commitments.
In addition to the routine business described above, the Committee also undertook the following activities during the year
and in the period to the date of this report:
• Review ICAM reports on all serious environmental and safety incidents, including fatalities (an ICAM being a detailed
analysis of factors contributing to an incident and the corrective and preventative measures taken to prevent recurrence)
presented by the executive and senior manager responsible for the relevant parts of the Group’s business;
• Review feedback from safety maturity audit;
• Review report considering environmental, political and legal impact of climate change;
• Review proposed regulations in relation to platinum salt sensitivity and actions to attain compliance;
• Consider future sustainability reporting and assurance requirements;
• Review housing strategy and visit local converted hostel; and
• Review close out report on community programme operated in conjunction with the International Finance Corporation.
8.5 Is the Committee effective?
The Board undertook an externally-facilitated evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees during the 
year. This involved a series of one to one meetings with each of the Directors and by observing various meetings in session.
There were no material issues raised in, or actions resulting from, this review in relation to either the Safety and Sustainability
Committee or its Chairman. 77
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
9. Transformation Committee
As noted in section 2.10, in November 2010 the Board created a Transformation Committee to oversee the delivery of the
Group’s obligations under its Social and Labour Plans and other empowerment objectives. The composition and terms of
reference of this committee will be finalised by early 2011.
10. Executive Committee
The members of the Executive Committee are the Executive Directors and key senior executives as set out on page 58. 
The members include one nominee of Shanduka Resources, the Company’s principal Black Economic Empowerment
investor who has no executive responsibilities, but who participates fully in the Committee’s activities. The Chief Executive
Officer is Chairman of the Committee. The Committee meets once every month and its responsibilities include the following
key areas:
• Develop strategy for submission to the Board;
• Develop, implement and monitor the operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets;
• Review financial performance, forecasts and targets;
• Prioritise initiatives and allocate resource;
• Identify and drive efficiencies across the Group;
• Approve capital expenditure proposals within the authority levels delegated by the Board and otherwise recommend to Board;
• Develop and monitor the Group’s policies and practices in respect of health, safety and environmental matters taking into
account legal requirements, regulations and best practice;
• Review ICAM findings for all serious incidents;
• Oversee risk management including identifying risks and developing and implementing risk mitigation plans; 
• Develop and monitor the internal control environment; and
• Develop and implement Group wide evaluation, training, reward and remuneration practices and manage wage
negotiations / benefits with unions.
11. Operations Committee
The members of the Operations Committee are the members of the Executive Committee and a wider group of around 25
operational and functional executives and senior managers across the Group. The Chief Operating Officer is Chairman of the
Operations Committee. The Committee meets once every month and its primary responsibilities are to:
• Assess operational and financial performance across the business including mining, processing, technical services,
human capital, safety, environment and health;
• Monitor progress of various initiatives; and
• Provide a forum to debate business issues between various parts of the business value chain.
12. Price and Risk Committee
The Price and Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and the members are the Chief Financial Officer, Chief
Commercial Officer, VP Treasury & Risk, VP Finance (UK), CFO (SA) and the Executive Manager, Marketing. The primary
purpose of this Committee is to review and agree proposals in relation to the forward sale of by-products, for example nickel
and copper. The Committee meets as and when required.
For and on behalf of the Board
Rob Bellhouse
Company Secretary
12 November 2010
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – GOVERNANCE 78
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to introduce the Directors’ Remuneration Report for 2010 which has been prepared by the
Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
Overview
As the Chairman has indicated in his statement, the turnaround of Lonmin continued in 2010, with improved
operational results and continued investment to lay the foundations for our future. However we continue to have
difficulties with our smelter. The remuneration delivered to our executives reflects the fact that we have been in a
turnaround, with no base salary increases and no vesting of long term incentive plans, but significant annual
bonuses to reflect the hard work being put in by your management.
Committee Activities
The Remuneration Committee met on its usual schedule four times during the year to consider the normal cycle
of approvals. In addition, I had a number of meetings with shareholders to gather input on the issues which had
been contentious at the 2010 AGM. These were most useful and I am grateful for your contribution.
2010 Actual Remuneration reflects turnaround
Base salaries and fees for Directors were not increased at 1 October 2009. Some senior staff in South Africa did
receive increases where they were out of line with their peers or were taking on new responsibilities, in an
environment with 7% inflation. Unionised staff increases in South Africa were of the order of 10%. We have
provided a 2.7% increase in base salary to the Chief Executive at 1 October 2010 and we have provided our
new CFO with a market competitive package in our standard format.
The overall result for the corporate elements of the Balanced Scorecard (BSC) that underlies the annual
bonus plan for 2010 was a payment slightly below the target level, with 74.0% being earned out of 80% at
target, compared to 65.24% out of 80% in 2009.
Production and sales exceeded market guidance, although our performance in the second half was set
back by the smelter incident in May 2010. The on-costs associated with toll refining allied to smelter repair costs
and other factors meant that we missed our internal gross cost targets, although we managed to contain our
unit cost increase to 2%, despite very significant inflationary pressures. Pleasingly, the delivery of fully developed
ore reserves exceeded our expectations, which creates a sustainable base for our mines and significantly reduces
the risk of production shortfalls. Despite the well known problems at the smelter, the recovery rate across the
Processing Division reached record levels, reflecting significant work by management with particularly strong
results from the concentrators.
Risk management and safe production are at the heart of our business and key to long term value creation.
While we were satisfied that our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate decreased marginally further below the record
lows achieved in the prior year, our activities still led to the deaths of three employees, which we regret deeply
and our thoughts go to the families and friends of our late colleagues.
Our mining licence is conditional upon the delivery of the targets set out in our Social & Labour Plan agreed
with the South African government and three key commitments under this plan are reflected in the BSC. While
we made good progress in attracting and retaining Historically Disadvantaged South Africans in management,
we have not enjoyed the same level of success in bringing female workers into our mining operations. During
the year, we refined our housing strategy and completed the conversion of five hostels into married and single
accommodation units.
Outstanding awards under our long term incentive schemes use a variety of performance conditions. While
the return to profitability was welcome, recent results did not lead to significant vesting of awards. We have also
assessed the Relative Total Shareholder Return (RTSR) and Absolute Share Price targets over the various
performance periods for subsisting awards, very few of which would be due to vest at current levels. Clearly,
pay must result from performance, so it is appropriate that these historic awards will not vest; this also provides
the clearest possible incentive for management to continue to deliver the turnaround. We look forward to more
positive results in the future. 79
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
Changes in Remuneration Policy
Following engagement with many of our institutional shareholders since the 2010 AGM, we have made three
important changes to our plans which we believe will incentivise executive management at all levels to build and
deliver long term shareholder value and will allow us to attract and retain the people necessary to do that. The
three changes are summarised below:
Higher shareholding obligation
Lonmin has very long term capital horizons, and there are arguments for lengthening performance or vesting
periods. However, we operate in a competitive market, and in South Africa longer vesting periods are very
uncommon, and there is also a skills shortage. The Committee concluded that by far the simplest and most
appropriate means of aligning executives’ interests with those of shareholders was to impose a significantly
increased shareholding obligation for the CEO at 300% of base salary (from 150%), CFO at 200% (from 100%)
and a new requirement for senior executives to hold between 50% and 100% of base salary. We believe that
this is a powerful way of ensuring that all our executive team approach decision-making with the long term
interests of shareholders firmly in mind.
Performance condition for long term awards to include both RTSR and operational targets
Having reflected on the views of key shareholders, the Committee considered a number of alternatives to the
use of absolute share price targets as a performance condition for our long term incentive awards. We decided
to adopt a performance condition which is based on both the corporate elements of the BSC targets, and
RTSR, which the Committee regards as the ultimate goal, in each case measured over a three year period. We
believe this strikes the right balance between incentivising those factors under management’s direct control or
influence while recognising that our shareholders rightly expect us to deliver value to them at levels which justify
their decision to invest in Lonmin.
All of the key elements in Lonmin’s medium term strategy, as well as the risk profile of the business are
considered in forming targets for our balanced scorecard each year. The use of the corporate element for all
staff eligible for long term awards aims to ensure that everyone is focused on the key objectives for the
Company as a whole.
More focused RTSR comparator group
Historically Lonmin has used a RTSR comparator group of twenty companies, many of whom are in unrelated
commodities or who are major diversified groups and therefore have different value drivers and economic
cycles. To remove this distortion, we have therefore adopted a small comparator group made up of the other
five ‘pure play’ primary PGM producers, with whom Lonmin is directly comparable.
Proposed new Annual Share Award Plan
At the 2011 AGM the Company is proposing the adoption of a new share plan, the Annual Share Award Plan.
This is a replacement for the current Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, although existing awards under the latter will
continue until they reach their normal vesting date. Further details of the proposal and the rationale for change
are set out on page 87 and in the letter from the Chairman accompanying the Notice of the 2011 AGM. This is
purely an administrative matter and does not change either the quantum of remuneration or its cost to the Company.
2011 Balanced Scorecard
We do not publish the details of our forthcoming scorecard in advance, but I believe the previous year’s
arrangements worked to incentivise the right deliveries. As a result, we have followed broadly the same format,
although we have increased the target bonus weighting on safety from 10% to 15% and for production there is
a 20% weighting on achievement of the overall annual result. We have also moved away from gross cost
measures and are focusing more specifically on operating unit costs.
Feedback
The Committee and I would like to thank shareholders for their contribution to our consultation processes and
support for the conclusions we reached. As ever, we welcome further input, and the Committee and I would be
happy to meet with shareholders to discuss any matter within our remit.
Jim Sutcliffe
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 80
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is a formal committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its remit is set out in terms of reference formally adopted by the Board which were last amended in November 2005. The Terms of
Reference are available on the Company’s website. The Committee’s main responsibilities are to:
• make recommendations to the Board on the Company’s executive remuneration policy;
• determine individual remuneration packages within that policy for the Executive Directors and certain senior executives;
• make recommendations to the Board on the fees offered to the Non-executive Directors, after taking independent professional
advice;
• oversee the operation of the Company’s incentive schemes;
• review Directors’ expenses; and
• oversee the Company’s executive pension arrangements,
all of which it carries out on behalf of the Board.
The Committee is authorised to seek information from any Director or employee of the Group and co-opt any resources
(including external professional assistance) it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties. Minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all
Directors and supplemented by a verbal update from the Committee Chairman at the next Board meeting identifying any material
matters which arose from the Committee’s work. The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other
interested parties by means of this report and the Committee Chairman attends the Annual General Meeting to answer any
questions on the Committee’s activities.
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
All independent Directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Board, are eligible to become members of the Committee.
The Board is empowered to appoint or remove members. Any two members of the Committee form a quorum. The Committee
comprised the following independent Directors during the year and to the date of this report:
Member From To
Jim Sutcliffe (Chairman) 28 January 2009 To date
Peter Godsoe 20 September 2002 28 January 2010
Michael Hartnall 8 May 2003 To date
Jonathan Leslie 2 July 2009 To date
Given their diverse backgrounds and experience, the Board believes that the Committee members are able to offer a balanced
view on executive remuneration issues. Mr Sutcliffe has been chief executive of a number of businesses, including Old Mutual, the
FTSE100 financial services group. In these roles he had responsibility for designing and implementing remuneration systems in
support of those companies’ strategic objectives. The Board believes that these skills, knowledge and experience equip him to
chair the Committee.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief Executive, the HR Director and the Company Secretary (who acts as
secretary to the Committee), none of whom do so as of right and who do not attend when their own remuneration is being
discussed. During the year, the Executive Vice President: External Affairs and Human Capital was also invited to attend meetings
and, as a senior South Africa based executive, is able to create context for the Company’s executive remuneration deliberations
by explaining the current issues in the broader workforce. The Committee also met informally in private after meetings.
Advisors to the Remuneration Committee
Throughout the year, the Committee was assisted in its work by the London office of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), an
independent firm of remuneration consultants who were appointed by, and report to, the Committee. The Committee has
authorised PwC to support management in developing and implementing remuneration proposals, and in providing IFRS2
valuations for the Company. During the year the South African practice of PwC was engaged by the Company to provide specialist
support to the internal audit function, as described on page 72. The Committee is confident that this does not generate a conflict
of interest for either party and that the sums payable in respect of each service would not compromise the objectiveness and
impartiality of the other.
In making its decisions, the Committee consults with the Chief Executive and HR Director in relation to remuneration of the
other Executive Directors and senior executives.
In addition, Herbert Smith LLP has been retained on behalf of the Company, to provide information to the Committee on
matters in respect of employment law and Company share schemes being considered by the Committee. KPMG Audit Plc
(KPMG), the Company’s external auditors, have been engaged by the Committee to provide assurance in the form of limited,
specific checking procedures on the results of the BSC. 81
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (continued)
Activities of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee normally meets four times annually and reports its material findings to the next Board meeting. It has a standing
calendar of items within its remit and in addition discusses matters arising relating to the operation of the remuneration policy.
During the year, the Committee met four times and discussed, amongst other things, the issues set out below:
Meeting Standing Agenda items Other Agenda Items
November • Review and approval of changes to or affecting • Approval of interim awards to be made under the 
those within the Committee’s purview. Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and Stay & 
• Approval of prior year’s annual bonus payments. Prosper Plan (S&P).
• Review and approval of design of current year’s
annual bonus plan.
• Consideration of performance conditions on maturing
awards and, if justified, approval of DABP vesting.
• Review of status of performance conditions attaching
to outstanding awards.
• Approval of the Remuneration Committee Report
and any relevant Annual General Meeting business.
• Review of Directors’ expenses for the quarter to
end September.
May • Review and approval of changes to or affecting • Consideration of feedback from key institutional
those within the Committee’s purview. investors and their representative groups on 
• Review of projected short term incentives for the the Company’s reward practices and 
current year. recommendation of changes if appropriate.
• Review of status of performance conditions • Consideration and approval to reappoint KPMG
attaching to outstanding awards. to provide assurance on the BSC and authorisation
• Review of Directors’ expenses for the quarter to of Chairman to approve in future years.
end December and end March. • Consideration and approval of the remuneration
for Simon Scott.
July • Review and approval of changes to or affecting • Review of shareholding guideline for Directors
those within the Committee’s purview. and senior management.
• Review of projected short term incentives for the • Review and assessment of the relationship 
current year. between the Company’s incentive arrangements
• Approval of awards to be made under the LTIP and and its risk management practices.
S&P including setting of performance conditions.
• Approval of LTIP and S&P vesting.
September • Review and approval of changes to or affecting • Approval of awards to be made under LTIP and
those within the Committee’s purview. S&P to senior new hires.
• Salary review for Executive Directors and senior
executives.
• Review of projected short term incentives for the
current year.
• Review of remuneration strategy for the new financial
year including design of the short term incentive plan.
• Review of Directors’ expenses for the quarter to
end June.
Attendance at the Committee meetings was as follows:
Number of meetings Number of
Member held during time in office meetings attended
Peter Godsoe 11
Michael Hartnall 44
Jonathan Leslie 44
Jim Sutcliffe 44 82
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (continued)
The Combined Code
The effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee and its Chairman were reviewed by an external adviser as part of the Board
evaluation process. There were no material issues identified in, or actions arising from, that review.
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year, complied with all of the provisions relating to Directors’
remuneration set out in the Combined Code.
Relations with shareholders
The Committee is strongly committed to open and transparent dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters. The
Committee consults extensively with key institutional investors and various representative bodies to obtain their views on the
remuneration packages of the Directors and senior executives and support for any proposed changes.
At the AGM held in January 2010, the advisory vote on the remuneration report received the support of 83% of those voting,
whilst 8% of the register abstained or withheld their votes. After the AGM, a number of meetings were held with key institutional
shareholders and the ABI, Risk Metrics and NAPF. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Company Secretary
attended these meetings at which the Company’s remuneration policy was discussed. Feedback from these meetings was
provided to the Committee and was taken into account when the proposals in respect of changes to the shareholding guidelines
and performance condition for the long term incentive plans were discussed and approved. We are grateful for the time and ideas
provided to us by these important stakeholders.
REMUNERATION POLICY
Non-executive Directors
The Board, with the benefit of independent professional advice, determines the fees of the Non-executive Directors, which are
designed to ensure that the Company attracts and retains individuals of the highest calibre and pays in line with market norms.
When deciding an appropriate level of fee for the responsibilities taken on by the Non-executive Directors, the Board considers
the responsibility and time commitment required to fulfil the role, taking into account the number of meetings required to be
attended, the time required for reading Board and other papers, the duties associated with membership or chairmanship of Board
Committees or (in the case of Roger Phillimore) chairmanship of the Board, and the overseas travel required.
The Board commissions an independent review of Non-executive Directors’ fees every two years.
Executive Directors and senior executives
The Committee’s remuneration policy is geared towards providing a level of remuneration which attracts, retains and motivates
Directors and senior executives of a suitable calibre to execute the Company’s strategic plans but, at the same time, ensures
remuneration is consistent with best practice and aligned with the interests of the Company’s shareholders.
The Committee’s strategy is a carefully balanced blend of fixed and performance-related pay geared to deliver over the short
and longer terms and to recognise each individual’s contribution. The Committee also has regard to the significant level of
competition for experienced, talented managers in the mining industry, both globally and specifically within South Africa.
Importantly, no Director plays any part in setting his own remuneration.
The structure of the remuneration currently offered to the Executive Directors and senior executives and the underlying
principles on which the package is predicated are detailed below. 
Policy Basis of Delivery
Base salary
• Executive Directors and UK senior executives are • Monthly in cash.
benchmarked against other UK listed companies of • Reviewed annually in September, with changes taking effect 
comparable size or (where appropriate) a peer group 1 October.
of international companies in the mining sector. • Simon Scott and other senior executives based in South Africa 
• Other senior executives in South Africa are benchmarked have a ‘total cost to company’ (TCTC) package, with all benefits 
against South African market practice. in kind converted into a cash allowance within this structure. 
• Reflect market median levels based on role and individual This is in line with market practice in South Africa. Participation
skill and experience. in short and long term incentive schemes is in addition to TCTC.
Pension
• Provide a market competitive level of provision with good • Defined contribution funding or cash salary supplement at 
flexibility while minimising risk to the Company. executive’s choice.
• All of Lonmin’s defined benefit pension plans have been wound 
up in an orderly manner and the trusts dissolved. 83
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
REMUNERATION POLICY (continued)
Policy Basis of Delivery
Annual Bonus
• Incentivise achievement of annual objectives consistent • A BSC approach using a combination of overall corporate 
with the medium to long term strategic needs of the performance and performance against personal objectives.
business, and recognising the risks borne. • There are three defined levels of performance for each element,
• Mandatory deferral of 50% into Lonmin shares for and the actual result is translated into bonus earned by 
three years. interpolating if necessary. The levels are:
Threshold: the minimum level of attainment for which the
Committee felt payment could be warranted, with 75% of the
target amount for that element being payable.
Target: normally based on the Company’s budget, at which
100% of the bonus for that element becomes payable.
Stretch: representing a significant level of outperformance and
also acting as a cap on the bonus due for that element, with
150% of the target amount for that element being payable.
• The scheme design provides for payment for the year ending
30 September 2010 of 167% of base salary to Executive
Directors if overall performance on each element was at target
levels with the maximum stretch bonus therefore being capped
at 250% of base salary.
• The bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors is weighted 
80% on the delivery of corporate targets and 20% on the
delivery of personal objectives.
• For other executives, the arrangements are consistent, with
greater weight being given to the elements for which the
individual is responsible.
• For short and long term incentive purposes only, a notional
base salary (equal to 80% of TCTC) will be used for Simon
Scott. If at the annual review the Company decides to increase
his TCTC, the notional base salary will also be increased by the
same percentage.
• No further performance conditions are applied because
performance has been tested in advance.
LTIP
• Incentivise long term value creation, and alignment with • Annual awards in restricted shares, subject to performance 
shareholder interests. conditions for Executive Directors.
• Upper quartile performance should lead to potential • For 2010, award is subject to both the corporate elements of
upper quartile total reward. the BSC and RTSR, both measured over a three year period
(further details are shown below). Maximum reward will only
occur if every item on the corporate BSC for each of the three 
years meets stretch and RTSR exceeds median by 10% per 
annum.
• Prior years’ LTIP awards have had conditions that include EBIT,
absolute share price and RTSR.
• South African senior executive participants receive awards
which are 50% based on performance conditions and 50% on
retention (which is in line with local practice for share awards).
Older Plans
• Awards under a number of older plans are still extant.
These include matching awards under the Deferred
Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) (we no longer offer matching
in respect of current awards) and options under the
Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS).
• Full details of these plans are shown in the Appendix to this
report, and the value of current Directors’ interests and receipts
under these old plans are shown in the relevant table.
Other benefits
• Car or cash car allowance
• Fuel
• Private Medical plan
• Income continuance insurance
• Life assurance
Note – South African packages are provided on a “TCTC” basis. 84
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
REMUNERATION POLICY (continued)
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The Committee believes that it is vital to be able to offer long term incentives to ensure that those best placed to deliver value for
shareholders have a direct personal interest in so doing. The annual granting of LTIP awards to employees including the Executive
Directors and senior executives is also intended to provide participants with the opportunity to earn sufficient reward, by delivering
value to shareholders, such that they are motivated to stay in the Group’s employment.
No formal limit on grant size is contained in the LTIP rules, but when the plan was introduced in 2004 the Company gave a
commitment that in normal circumstances these would be limited to 150% of salary, and this remains the Committee’s position
and policy. An award under the LTIP entitles the recipient to receive shares at no cost, subject to attainment of stretching
performance conditions which are detailed further below.
The performance conditions in each year’s awards are summarised below:
% of
Basis of component of
Year of award performance conditions Performance conditions Performance award released
2006 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 35%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 60%
Stretch (90th percentile) 100%
50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2008 Threshold 35%
Target 63%
Stretch 100%
2007 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 20%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 70%
Stretch (90th percentile) 100%
50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2009 Threshold 20%
Target 60%
Stretch 100%
2008 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 20%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 70%
Stretch (90th percentile) 100%
50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2010 Threshold 0%
Stretch 100%
2009 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 20%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 70%
Stretch (90th percentile) 100%
50% Share Price Lonmin Plc share price on Threshold 20%
London Stock Exchange Stretch 100%
From 2010 onwards, a new performance condition has been adopted which combines the results of the corporate BSC over 
a three year period and TSR relative to a group of five PGM producers. This is described in detail on page 85 below.
Stay & Prosper Plan (S&P)
For historic reasons, awards to middle and junior managers in our South African operating companies are made under a separate
plan from the LTIP . Since the introduction of this plan in 2005 a number of decisions have meant that its design has converged
with that of the LTIP , from which it now differs solely in the treatment of awards following a change of control of Lonmin Plc. Should
such an eventuality arise, awards crystallise in full but are only payable on their normal vesting date, subject broadly to continued
employment.
The Executive Directors are not permitted to participate in this Plan.
As with the LTIP , awards are linked to a notional number of shares which are awarded at nil cost, the vesting of which is
subject to continued employment as to half of the award and performance targets (EBIT for relevant financial year until 2008 
and for 2009 the same performance targets as the LTIP) to the other half. South African practice is to award shares without
performance conditions, and we do not believe we could attract and retain the right people with the full award subject to
performance conditions.
Participants receive shares or cash (based on the prevailing market value of that proportion of the total award that vests) 
at the end of three years. Our current policy is that such awards are settled through the issue of new shares. 85
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
REMUNERATION POLICY (continued)
Performance conditions
The Committee considers the appropriateness of proposed performance conditions prior to approving the grant of each award.
RTSR has always been widely used as part or the whole of the performance condition. The Committee believes that this
measure links the actual returns delivered to shareholders with the remuneration earned by the executives through the successful
delivery of our strategy. In addition, the Committee believes that the relative nature of this test provides a measurable and objective
reflection of true performance for shareholders in light of the variability introduced into reported results by metal prices and
exchange rates (particularly between the South African Rand and the US Dollar).
Prior to 2009, in order to create a more direct linkage between our profit and the remuneration of the Company’s executives
and managers, an EBIT performance condition was introduced for awards made under the LTIP and the S&P , as well as the DABP ,
which was then being used to make matching awards.
During 2009 the significant dislocations in the financial and PGM markets made forecasting EBIT three years forward
exceptionally challenging. The Committee perceived that there was a significant risk that any forecasts could prove to be materially
incorrect and either result in excessive reward or gross unfairness either to the plan participants or to shareholders. After
considering a range of possible performance conditions, the Committee decided to use an absolute share price target for 2009
which the Committee felt was a fair metric and one which was appropriate to the Company’s needs.
Following the meetings with key institutional shareholders during 2010, the Committee decided to introduce a new
performance condition for the future. After exploring a number of options, the Committee concluded that metrics which incentivise
medium term value creation existed within the corporate element of the BSC. Moreover, the BSC has been (and will be) constructed
to tie closely to the Company’s overall strategy and has served the Company well through stimulating delivery of key targets.
It is of course the sustained delivery of annual performance that delivers long term success. The Committee therefore, after
further shareholder consultation, decided to adopt a performance condition which is based on both the corporate elements of the
BSC targets and the RTSR, which the Committee regards as the ultimate goal, in each case measured over a three year period.
The matrix below illustrates the vesting outcomes (as a % of the face value of the award):
Average BSC performance
% of face value vesting RTSR factor <Threshold Threshold Target Stretch (Max)
BSC factor 0.0x 0.5x 1.0x 1.5x
RTSR performance <Median – 5% pa 0.0x 0% 0% 0% 0%
Median – 5% pa 0.5x 0% 8.33% 16.66% 25%
Median 1.0x 0% 16.66% 33.33% 50%
Median + 5% pa 1.5x 0% 25% 50% 75%
Median >=+ 10% pa 2.0x 0% 33.33% 66.66% 100%
The matrix shows that the result is more geared to RTSR than to the BSC – even with every BSC item delivering at “stretch”,
with median RTSR the plan delivers only half the face value. On the other hand, it allows the Company to recognise at a low level,
in difficult times, the hard work that needs to be done for quite long periods before the delivery is recognised in the share price. 
We also believe that the use of annual bonus targets to influence our long term incentive programme helps mitigate the risk of
short termism, particularly where the delivery of results in one year would be at the expense of succeeding years.
Performance conditions are assessed using independently verified data. RTSR is assessed by PwC, acting on behalf of the
Committee, using data normalised into US Dollars sourced from Datastream or other independent providers. EBIT assessment
uses the audited financial results of the Company and the results of the BSC are only declared after assurance has been provided
by KPMG.
Performance hurdle disclosure
The Committee does not disclose the EBIT or share price targets in advance for reasons of commercial sensitivity and because of
regulatory constraints, but will do so retrospectively at the conclusion of the relevant performance period. It believes the profit and
share price targets to be stretching, yet realistic.
Price methodology
The price used to determine the number of shares awarded under the DABP , LTIP and S&P is calculated using the average
midmarket closing Lonmin share price on the London Stock Exchange for the final twenty working days of the last complete
calendar month before the date of award. 86
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
REMUNERATION POLICY (continued)
Comparator group of companies for RTSR
The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the comparator group used for assessing RTSR to ensure that it remains relevant
to the Company’s stated strategy and therefore aligns executives appropriately with shareholders. For awards made from 2006 to
2009, the Committee used a group of twenty metals and mining companies to provide a broadly based comparator group with
whom the Company is likely to be in competition for executive talent. These companies are as follows:
African Rainbow Minerals Gold Fields Limited
Anglo American plc Impala Platinum Holdings Limited
Anglo Gold Ashanti Limited Johnson Matthey plc
Anglo Platinum Ltd MMC Norilsk Nickel
Antofagasta plc Rio Tinto plc
Aquarius Platinum Stillwater Mining
BHP Billiton plc Teck Cominco
Exxaro Resources Umicore
First Quantum Minerals Vale
Gold Corp Xstrata plc
In measuring RTSR, Lonmin’s relative position in the group is calculated, and reward only accrues if Lonmin ranks median
or higher.
For awards made from August 2010 onwards, the comparator group was changed to a smaller more relevant group of the five
other primary PGM producers, with whose businesses Lonmin is directly comparable, four of whom also operate principally in
South Africa. These companies are as follows:
Anglo Platinum Ltd Northam Platinum
Aquarius Platinum Stillwater Mining
Impala Platinum Holdings Limited
Using a ranking approach with only five peers would not give scope to differentiate between differing levels of RTSR
performance, and the outcome would be extremely sensitive to the results of individual comparators. We therefore now compare
Lonmin’s TSR with that of the median of the Group in order to determine the degree of relative performance.
Share schemes limitations
Except under the Sharesave Scheme, no options have been granted that have an exercise price at a discount to the market price
at the time the exercise price was set. No options or awards of any kind have been granted to Non-executive Directors. Directors
are strongly encouraged to hold the shares issued to them upon the exercise of options and awards and are subject to a
shareholding obligation.
Dilution
Options granted under ESOS and Sharesave (with the exception of the December 2005 award) are satisfied with new-issued
shares. Awards under the LTIP or DABP Matched Awards are satisfied either with shares purchased in the market by the
Company’s offshore employee benefit trust or the issue of new shares. Awards under the S&P are currently settled in new issue
shares, but could be settled in cash at the Committee’s discretion.
The rules of the Company’s employee share plans limit the total commitment to issue new shares across all plans to 10% of
the issued share capital. As the Company does not operate all-employee schemes due to exchange controls and for other local
South African reasons, shareholders have agreed on a number of occasions that the whole of this 10% can be used for
discretionary share plans. In practice, the total commitment is well within the 5% inner limit that would otherwise apply.
The table below shows the Company’s current commitment to issue new shares in respect of its long term incentive schemes
assuming (1) all performance conditions are met, (2) all award holders remain in employment to the vesting date and (3) the
Committee continues to settle S&P awards in shares in line with its current policy:
% of % of
issued share issued share
30.09.09 capital 30.09.10 capital
Undiluted issued share capital (refer to note 26 to the accounts) 193,054,260 202,292,445
The Lonmin Executive Share Option Scheme 200,044 0.10 137,972 0.07
The Lonmin Share Option Scheme 10,721 0.01 1,950 0.00
The Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1994 17,914 0.01 1,959 0.00
Long Term Incentive Plan 644,085 0.33 1,077,030 0.53
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 87,928 0.05 73,832 0.04
Stay & Prosper Plan (cash or share settled) 1,566,574 0.81 2,128,587 1.05
Sub-total: contingent obligation to allot shares 2,527,266 1.31 3,421,330 1.69
Total diluted issued share capital 195,581,526 n/a 205,713,775 n/a 87
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
REMUNERATION POLICY (continued)
Planned future policy changes
Following a recent ruling by the South African Revenue Service in relation to South African income tax legislation, the Company no
longer considers that the current structure of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan is cost effective for the Company or tax efficient for
participants. We are therefore proposing the adoption of a replacement share plan, the Annual Share Award Plan, at the 2011
AGM. This is in substitution for the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan which will not be used again, save that subsisting awards will
continue to be governed by the terms of that plan until they reach their normal vesting date. The adoption of the new plan will not
affect the overall quantum of executive reward, with executives’ aggregate maximum cash bonus potential and award potential
under the new plan remaining constant with the current annual bonus maximum. The Company does not consider, therefore, that
there will be any increased cost to the Company in operating the new arrangements and, for executives, there will be no reduction
in the period over which they are expected to maintain their investment in the Company’s shares, or the level of their interests in
those shares. Replacing the Company’s Deferred Annual Bonus Plan with the new plan is designed to improve the ease of
administration and to preserve the tax efficiency of the Company’s pay arrangements in South Africa. Full details of the Annual
Share Award Plan are contained in the circular published by the Company in relation to the 2011 AGM.
Other than in this respect, the Company does not anticipate any changes to the structure of the Executive Directors’ and
senior executives’ remuneration packages in 2011 and the same annual bonus structure will apply as for 2009 and 2010.
As a result, aside from modest salary increases in October 2008 and 2010, the Executive Directors’ potential earnings have
not changed since October 2007.
Non-Group directorships
No Executive Director holds any executive directorship or appointment outside the Group. It is both the Company’s policy and
generally a requirement of the individual’s contract of employment that no Executive Director may take up such an appointment
without the approval of the Board. The Board believes that, in the right circumstances, the holding of non-executive directorships
and similar appointments by Executive Directors can be useful and appropriate if they help those involved gain additional skills and
experience or promote the interests of the Group, providing they do not necessitate an excessive time commitment. The Board
would not normally agree to an Executive Director taking on more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or
the chairmanship of such a company. Whilst it would be considered on a case-by-case basis, any individual holding such a role
outside the Group would generally be permitted to retain any fees or other payments relating to that appointment.
REMUNERATION IN 2010
Directors’ remuneration
The total remuneration paid to all Directors in 2010 was £4,039,441, which compared with £5,153,091 for the previous year.
Non-executive Directors
The most recent review of Non-executive fees was in June 2009. No increases were made to the base fees, committee
chairmanship or membership fees at that time. A detailed breakdown of the fees paid to Non-executive Directors during the year 
is provided below:
Total for Total for
year to year to
Safety and 30.09.10 30.09.09
Non-executive Directors Directorship Chairmanship Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability ££
Karen de Segundo 50,000 M 10,000 M 7,500 M 7,500 75,000 71,769
Peter Godsoe 16,346 M 3,269 M 2,452 22,067 67,500
Sivi Gounden 2,308 M 346 C 577 3,231 66,769
Michael Hartnall 50,000 S 15,000 M 10,000 C 17,500 M 7,500 100,000 88,750
Len Konar 27,885 M 5,577 M 4,182 37,644 –
Jonathan Leslie 50,000 M 10,000 M 7,500 M 865 79,471 22,885
C 11,106
David Munro 50,000 M 7,500 M 7,500 65,000 66,115
Roger Phillimore 50,000 C 200,000 C 12,500 262,500 226,972
Cyril Ramaphosa 11,154 11,154 –
Jim Sutcliffe 50,000 C 17,500 M 10,000 M 7,500 85,000 75,269
TOTAL 741,067 686,029
This table and the associated footnote have been subject to audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
Key: C = Chairman, S = Senior Independent Director, M = Member
Note: Fees disclosed for Sivi Gounden relate to the period 1 October 2009 to 16 October 2009, for Peter Godsoe to the period 1 October 2009 to
28 January 2010, for Len Konar to the period 11 March 2010 to 30 September 2010 and for Cyril Ramaphosa to the period 13 July 2010 to
30 September 2010. 88
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
REMUNERATION IN 2010 (continued)
Executive Directors
Fixed pay, pensions and annual bonuses
Pension/cash Total for Total for
Salary Benefits payment in lieu Annual year to year to
or TCTC in kind of pension Bonuses 30.09.10 30.09.09
£
1
£
2
£
3
£
4
£ £
Ian Farmer 550,000 176,120 198,900 909,315 1,834,335 1,695,223
Alan Ferguson 487,600 17,641 146,280 806,149 1,457,670 1,324,993
Simon Scott 6,369 ––– 6,369 –
Total 3,298,374 3,020,216
This table and the associated footnotes have been subject to audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
1 For 2009, the Committee considered base salaries in the light of current economic conditions and the overall remuneration policy. Accordingly, it agreed
that the CEO and CFO’s pay should be frozen at 2008 levels.
Pay disclosed for Simon Scott relates to the period 27 September 2010 to 30 September 2010. Simon Scott joined Lonmin on a TCTC of R 4,500,000
per annum.
2 Benefits in kind comprise cars, fuel, healthcare and medicals. The costs of life assurance and income continuance insurance are not reflected as the
Company is the named beneficiary of these policies, and they do not form part of the taxable pay of the Director concerned. Ian Farmer’s total benefits
include costs of £149,334 relating to his secondment to South Africa including housing, home leave and removals.
3 Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson have opted for their pension entitlements of 30% of base salary to be paid in cash. The figure disclosed for Alan Ferguson
relates to this cash payment and for Ian Farmer to this cash payment and a pension supplement as explained further below.
4 50% of the net bonus received by Ian Farmer is subject to compulsory deferral into shares. As he only joined on 27 September 2010, Simon Scott did not
receive a bonus for the year ended 30 September 2010.
5 In addition to the amounts in the table, the Executive Directors received long term share incentives as detailed elsewhere in this report. The Directors’ total
emoluments for the year do not include any fair value share option / award charges.
6 Although the Group’s reporting currency is US Dollars, these figures are stated in Sterling. Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson are paid in Sterling whilst Simon
Scott is paid in Rand.
7 No Director received any expense allowances during the year.
Purview Group
In addition to the Executive Directors, the remuneration of eighteen other senior executives, the majority of whom are employed in
South Africa, fall within the purview of the Remuneration Committee. The base salaries of those individuals based in the United
Kingdom, or the TCTC of individuals employed in South Africa fall within the following bands:
Salary band £000 Number of executives
£100 to £150 3
£150 to £200 7
£200 to £250 4
£250 to £300 3
£300 to £400 1
Exchange rate used £1: R10.87
As for the Executive Directors, the base salaries and TCTCs of the Purview Group executives in the United Kingdom and South
Africa respectively were held at 2008 levels. The Purview Group executives also participate in the same long term and short term
incentive arrangements as the Executive Directors although with lower grant levels. In addition, half of their LTIP awards are subject
to performance conditions and the remaining half solely on continued employment, in recognition of the severe competition for
executive talent in South Africa and local practice.
Pensions
Closed defined benefit pension scheme arrangements
All UK employees with a final salary linked benefit at the point when the plan was withdrawn in June 2007 have been provided 
with a salary supplement for five years from that date, in partial compensation for the loss of the link to future salary growth for 
their accrued benefits. Ian Farmer benefits from this provision and currently receives a non-pensionable and non-bonusable salary
supplement of £33,900 per annum. The Company has increased certain insurance covers for this group, to reflect the loss of the
spouse’s and ill-health early retirement pensions provided by the defined benefit scheme.
Pension supplement
Following the closure of the Final Salary scheme, UK based executives have been provided with a pension supplement, expressed as
a percentage of their base salary, which may be paid at their choice as a pension contribution or an additional taxable cash payment.
Defined contribution arrangements
The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme, the Lonmin Retirement Plan, for the benefit of its UK employees.
This is a registered arrangement structured as a group personal pension scheme. No Executive Directors are members of this
scheme. In South Africa the Company and Group participate in an industry-wide defined contribution pension plan. In respect of
Simon Scott, the Company is deducting 8.80% from his TCTC as the Company contribution to the South African pension plan 
and he has elected to contribute a further 3.21% of his TCTC to the plan. 89
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
REMUNERATION IN 2010 (continued)
Pensions (continued)
Pensions limitations
No element of any Director’s remuneration other than base salary is pensionable. Except as disclosed above, the Company has
given no undertakings to arrange or bear the cost of any other pension benefits for any Director. No former Director enjoys pension
benefits in excess of those that would have been provided, in accordance with the historic provisions of the trust deeds and rules,
to all members of the relevant former scheme.
Life assurance
From 1 July 2007, as a former member of the UK defined benefit pension scheme, Ian Farmer has been provided with life
assurance benefits of eight times salary, for the reasons noted above, as a contractual benefit. Alan Ferguson and Simon Scott are
entitled to life assurance benefits of four times annual salary under their contracts of employment. The Company has secured all of
these benefits through life assurance policies written as excepted life arrangements.
Annual bonus
2010 required a continuing focus on the Company’s cost base, while delivering increased production targets and minimising the
risks to the Company (safety, development, plant maintenance). The BSC below was therefore designed to ensure the Company
focused on delivering against our production and cost control targets. These annual bonus plan targets largely reflect the
corporate Key Performance Indicators, as shown on pages 34 and 35.
% of bonus Actual
opportunity payment
on offer for the year
Target Actual for target (% of bonus
Metric performance performance performance opportunity)
Corporate
Safety: improvement in lost time injury Percentage improvement on 5% Marginal 10% 7.5%
frequency rate prior year (with 4 fatalities or improvement
more means zero achievement) on FY2009
Community HDSAs in management 179 163 3.3% 2.6%
Women in mining 1,240 770 3.3% 0%
Hostel conversions 55 3.3% 3.3%
Platinum sales 1st 6 mth Pt oz target 291,000 291,921 8% 8.6%
Platinum sales 2nd 6 mth Pt oz target 424,000 418,294 12% 10.1%
Available ore reserves Square metres 2,250,000 2,693,184 10% 15.0%
Gross operating costs Rm 9,035 9,341 5% 0%
(excluding joint venture ore purchases)
Operating unit costs R/oz 6,500 6,773 15% 11.9%
PGM instantaneous recovery rate % 74.4% 79.1% 10% 15.0%
80% 74.0%
Personal 20% 25.0%
1
Total 100% 99.0%
1
1 Average for Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson.
All results have been agreed to supporting data by KPMG and the Committee has subjected the scorecard to a detailed
assessment before authorising payment. The Committee considered whether the formulaic result was appropriate, decided it was
and made no discretionary changes.
At the beginning of the year it was agreed that of the bonus achieved by Ian Farmer, 50% would be paid in cash and the
remaining 50% of the total would be subject to a compulsory deferral into Lonmin shares. These shares are subject to a holding
period of three years but will only be transferred to Ian Farmer if he remains employed over that period (save for ‘good leavers’).
There is no performance condition attached to the transfer of these shares. Due to his known departure, it was agreed that Alan
Ferguson’s bonus for 2010 would be paid wholly in cash.
Long term Incentives
LTIP Awards
For 2010, LTIP awards were made to Ian Farmer and a number of senior executives on 2 August 2010 when the closing mid-
market share price was 1632p. In addition an award was made to Simon Scott and other senior finance new hires in South Africa
on 29 September 2010 when the closing mid-market share price was 1667p.
The award made to Ian Farmer was equivalent to 150% of base salary and Simon Scott received an award which was
equivalent to 100% of his notional base salary. In accordance with his leaving arrangements (described further below on page 94),
Alan Ferguson did not receive an award. The awards are subject to the achievement of the performance conditions as described in
the table above. Details of the awards are included in the table of Directors’ share interests. 90
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
REMUNERATION IN 2010 (continued)
Long term Incentives (continued)
Maturities
Two LTIP awards, one S&P award and one Matched Award under the DABP reached their maturity date during the year:
• On 8 December 2009, awards made under the LTIP on 8 December 2006 matured. For the RTSR half of the award, Lonmin
finished below threshold and therefore none of that half of the award vested. For the EBIT half of the award, 61% vested. The
outcome of the EBIT half of the award was linked to the underlying audited EBIT for the year ended 30 September 2008 of
$963 million and share of joint venture profits of $18 million. The vesting scale required a threshold of $775 million (at which
35% would vest), target of $1,000 million (at which 63% would vest) and stretch of $1,250 million (at which 100% would vest)
with straight-line interpolation between these points. Brokers’ EBIT forecasts at the time the performance targets were set
ranged from $695 million to $1,490 million with a consensus of $980 million. Overall, 31% of the award vested and shares to
this value were transferred to participants.
• On 22 August 2010, awards made under the LTIP on 22 August 2007 matured. For both the RTSR and EBIT portions of the
award, Lonmin finished below threshold and therefore none of the award vested. The outcome of the EBIT half of the award was
linked to the underlying audited EBIT for the year ended 30 September 2009 for which Lonmin reported an operating loss. The
vesting scale required a threshold of $925 million (at which 20% would vest), target of $1,175 million (at which 60% would vest) and
stretch of $1,325 million (at which 100% would vest) with straight-line interpolation between these points. Brokers’ EBIT forecasts
at the time the performance targets were set ranged from $614 million to $1,440 million with a consensus of $1,172 million.
• On 22 August 2010, awards made under the S&P Plan on 22 August 2007 vested. As the EBIT performance condition was
the same as the LTIP above, none of the performance award vested. The retention award (50% of total) vested in full.
• The Matched Award under the DABP granted on 22 December 2006 was subject to two performance conditions. The EBIT
performance condition was for target underlying audited EBIT for the year ended 30 September 2009 of $750 million, set
when the analysts’ consensus stood at $588 million, against which the Company delivered a loss of $(129 million). When the
RTSR performance condition was tested at the end of the performance period Lonmin ranked below median. As a result, all of
the Matched Awards lapsed on 22 December 2009.
Make up of Executive Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration attributable to each of the two Executive Directors serving for the whole year in respect of the year comprised the
following broad elements:
Ian Farmer Alan Ferguson
Notes to the charts
1 Benefits in kind are stated at their taxable value or the cost incurred by the Company where not taxable. For further details, refer footnote 2 to the table 
on page 88.
2 The cash bonus amount is the pre-tax amount payable in respect of the year and is stated before deferral.
3 The LTIP is stated at fair value assuming the BSC multiplier is at the target level and using a valuation consistent with IFRS for the RTSR multiplier.
However, if the threshold conditions noted elsewhere in this report are not achieved, no payment will be made.
4 Pension is cash amounts paid to the executive.
1%
34%
10%
55%
Benefits-in-kind £17,641
Pension £146,280
LTIP £0
Annual bonus £806,149
Base salary £487,600
8%
24%
9%
19%
40%
Benefits-in-kind £176,120
Pension £198,900
LTIP £440,325
Annual bonus £909,315
Base salary £550,000 91
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
REMUNERATION IN 2010 (continued)
Directors’ options and awards
The options and awards held by Directors over ordinary shares of the Company at the end of the year ending 30 September 2010,
and their transactions during that year, are set out in the table below:
During year
Exercise Date from Market Market
Price (p) which price at Notional value
Perfor- (adjusted exercisable / Date of date of pre-tax as at
mance Date of for rights As at Exercised / As at vesting Expiry exercise / exercise gain 30.09.10
1
Scheme Condition grant issue) 30.09.09 Granted Vested Lapsed 30.09.10 date date vesting (p) (£) (£)
Executive Directors
Ian Farmer
SAYE (a) 05.01.05 673.00 2,455 – 2,455 –– 01.02.10 01.08.10 02.02.10 1,936.00 31,007 –
DABP MA (b) 22.12.06 – 2,255 –– 2,255 – 22.12.09 22.12.09 –– ––
DABP MA (c) 05.12.07 – 2,174 –– – 2,174 05.12.10 05.12.10 –– – 36,284
DABP MA (d) 02.12.08 – 9,296 –– – 9,296 02.12.11 02.12.11 –– – 155,150
LTIP (b) 22.08.07 – 9,542 –– 9,542 – 22.08.10 22.08.10 –– ––
LTIP (b) 29.07.08 – 11,400 –– – 11,400 29.07.11 29.07.11 –– – 190,266
LTIP (d) 07.01.09 – 15,718 –– – 15,718 07.01.12 07.01.12 –– – 262,333
LTIP (e) 14.09.09 – 57,152 –– – 57,152 14.09.12 14.09.12 –– – 953,867
LTIP (f) 02.08.10 –– 51,886 –– 51,886 02.08.13 02.08.13 –– – 865,977
Alan Ferguson
DABP MA (c) 05.12.07 – 1,867 –– – 1,867 05.12.10 05.12.10 –– – 31,160
DABP MA (d) 02.12.08 – 15,913 –– – 15,913 02.12.11 02.12.11 –– – 265,588
LTIP (b) 22.08.07 – 11,377 –– 11,377 – 22.08.10 22.08.10 –– ––
LTIP (b) 29.07.08 – 14,984 –– – 14,984 29.07.11 29.07.11 –– – 250,083
LTIP (e) 14.09.09 – 33,779 –– – 33,779 14.09.12 14.09.12 –– – 563,772
Simon Scott
LTIP (f) 29.09.10 –– 20,434 –– 20,434 29.09.13 29.09.13 –– – 341,043
This table and the associated footnotes have been subject to Audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
1 The value is calculated using the closing middle market quotation for Lonmin shares at 30 September 2010 (1669p) and is stated (where relevant) net of
exercise costs.
2 The closing middle market quotation for the Company’s ordinary shares, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, was 1669p on
30 September 2010, and the price ranged between 1355p and 2157p during the financial year.
The schemes under which these awards / options were granted are:
SAYE – Options granted under the Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme
DABP MA – Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Matched Awards made under the Shareholder Value Incentive Plan
LTIP – Long Term Incentive Plan Awards made under the Shareholder Value Incentive Plan
The performance conditions are fully explained in earlier narrative, but are briefly:
(a) No performance condition is attached to SAYE options.
(b) 50% of award linked to TSR exceeding TSR of comparator companies with vesting schedule as described and remaining 50%
of award linked to EBIT performance.
(c) One for one performance award of which 50% is linked to TSR exceeding TSR of comparator companies with vesting
schedule as described and remaining 50% of award linked to EBIT performance. There is also a one for one retention award
on the first 
1
⁄3rd of the deferred bonus as described earlier.
(d) 50% of awards linked to TSR exceeding TSR of comparator companies with vesting schedule as described and remaining
50% of award linked to absolute share price.
(e) TSR exceeds TSR of comparator companies with vesting schedule as described and absolute share price.
(f) 50% of awards linked to average of the results of the BSC for each of the three years in the performance period and 50%
linked to TSR. 92
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
REMUNERATION IN 2010 (continued)
Directors’ options and awards (continued)
Value at risk
Based on the shares and share options and awards held at 30 September 2010 (assuming full vesting and after accounting for any
relevant exercise costs), the following table illustrates the value each Executive Director has at risk and how this component of
personal wealth has fluctuated during the year, using the lowest, highest and closing share prices for the year of 1355p, 2157p
and 1669p respectively, for illustrative purposes:
Executive Directors Number of shares Low (£) High (£) Closing (£)
Ian Farmer 65,323 885,127 1,409,017 1,090,241
Alan Ferguson 33,748 457,285 727,944 563,254
Simon Scott ––– –
Executive Directors Number of options/awards Low (£) High (£) Closing (£)
Ian Farmer 147,626 2,000,332 3,184,293 2,463,878
Alan Ferguson 66,543 901,658 1,435,333 1,110,603
Simon Scott 20,434 276,881 440,761 341,043
Share price performance
The primary role of the Directors is to deliver value to shareholders and it is against this backdrop that their remuneration must be
assessed. The graphs below show the value, at 30 September 2010, of £100 invested in Lonmin’s shares five years previously,
compared with the current value in Sterling terms of the same amount invested at the same date in the FTSE 100 index and the
FTSE Mining Sector, assuming dividends were reinvested in each case. The Company is a constituent of these indices and the
Board believes that these comparisons most fairly illustrate the Company’s performance in delivering value to shareholders relative
to both the market as a whole and its UK listed peers.
Sep
05
Sep
06
Sep
07
Sep
08
Sep
09
Sep
10
0 
50
100
200
250
350
150
300
Lonmin – net total return FTSE 100 – net total return 
Sep
05
Sep
06
Sep
07
Sep
08
Sep
09
Sep
10
0 
50
100
150
250
350
200
300
Lonmin – net total return FTSE Mining – net total return
TSR v FTSE 100 TSR v FTSE Mining 93
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
REMUNERATION IN 2010 (continued)
Directors’ shareholding obligation
Ultimately, the Committee believes that the most powerful incentive for the actions of the Directors to be aligned with shareholders’
interests is for the Directors to build up and retain personally significant investments in the Company’s shares.
A revised policy was issued in July 2010 in response to views expressed by some shareholders that the period over which
reward is paid should be longer than the three year vesting period of our long term incentive plans. Instead of extending either the
performance or vesting periods, the Committee decided to address this concern through an enhanced shareholding obligation.
The Board expects the CEO to maintain a shareholding (including vested but unexercised share incentives) equal in value to 300%
of his base salary (increased from 150%) and the CFO 200% of his notional base salary (increased from 100%). The revised share
ownership requirements should be achieved within five years of the approval of the revised policy or the date of appointment or
promotion, if later. Non-executive Directors continue to have a requirement to hold 100% of base fees. In this way, shareholder
value becomes a paramount principle underlying all Board decisions, since real personal wealth will be at stake.
At the end of the year, by reference to the share price at that date (1669p) share ownership levels were as follows:
Market value of shareholding
at 30 September 2010
as a % of base salary/fees
Ian Farmer 198
Alan Ferguson 116
Simon Scott 0
Karen de Segundo 70
Michael Hartnall 126
Len Konar 0
Jonathan Leslie 164
David Munro 257
Roger Phillimore 152
Cyril Ramaphosa 0
Jim Sutcliffe 151
Directors’ shareholdings
The beneficial interests of the Directors in office during the year are shown below:
30.09.10
1
30.09.09²
Executive Directors
Ian Farmer 65,323 58,985
Alan Ferguson 33,748 17,007
Simon Scott – –
Non-executive Directors
Karen de Segundo 2,108 2,108
Michael Hartnall 4,888 4,888
Len Konar – –
Jonathan Leslie 4,900 0
David Munro 7,700 7,700
Roger Phillimore 22,750 22,750
Cyril Ramaphosa
3
– –
Jim Sutcliffe 4,536 4,536
Former Directors
Peter Godsoe 4,106 4,106
Sivi Gounden 8,384 8,384
1. As at 30.09.10 or earlier date of retirement from the board.
2. As at 30.09.09 or later date of appointment to the board.
3. Cyril Ramaphosa is Executive Chairman of and a major shareholder in Shanduka Group, which controls Incwala Resources, Lonmin’s BEE partner. 
As such, Incwala owns 18% of the share capital of Eastern Platinum Ltd and Western Platinum Ltd and 26% of Akanani Mining (Pty) Ltd, being 
Lonmin’s principal operating subsidiaries. As a result, Mr Ramaphosa has a significant, but indirect, personal interest in Lonmin’s business.
There were no changes in the serving Directors’ interests from 30 September 2010 to the date of this report. 94
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
REMUNERATION IN 2010 (continued)
Service contracts and other contractual arrangements
The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Combined Code relating to service contracts. The Remuneration Committee
is responsible for settling any payment to be made when an Executive Director’s employment ends and has full regard to the
provisions of the Combined Code and other components of best practice in this area.
Severance arrangements
On 22 October 2009 the Company announced that it intended to move its operational headquarters from London to
Johannesburg and confirmed that Alan Ferguson would not relocate to South Africa as part of this move. Alan will relinquish his
position of CFO on 15 November 2010 but will continue as an Executive Director until 31 December 2010. As reported in 2009,
the Committee felt it would be inappropriate to offer him an LTIP award in 2010, and in this light believed it was appropriate and in
the Company’s best interests to offer him a one-off non-pensionable cash payment of up to 125% of his base salary dependent
on satisfactory personal performance through the period of transition from London to Johannesburg. Specifically, Alan’s
responsibilities have been to establish a new financial management and reporting structure in South Africa and recruit a new team
for these roles, whilst also maintaining morale in and ensuring the performance of the London based team, the vast majority of
whose employment will end in December 2010. Half of this payment will be paid at the date of termination with the remaining half
payable as soon as practicable after the first interim announcement of results following the termination date.
Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment
Director Date of contract/letter Unexpired term Termination arrangements
Executive Directors
Ian Farmer 6 April 2006 Rolling contract Contract terminable on 364 days’ prior written
Alan Ferguson 20 February 2007 Rolling contract notice given by either the Company or the individual
Simon Scott 7 July 2010 Rolling Contract (182 days in the case of notice given by Mr Ferguson
and Mr Scott) except for gross misconduct or in
certain other circumstances which may result in
dismissal. In the event that employment is terminated 
by the Company without notice and not for reasons of 
gross misconduct, the Directors are entitled to receive 
a payment equivalent to the value of the annual base 
salary and contractual benefits which would have been 
earned during this unworked notice period.
Non-executive Directors
Karen de Segundo 22 April 2005 Letters of appointment generally provide for a fixed 
Peter Godsoe 23 January 2008 term to the first AGM following appointment, and then 
Michael Hartnall 12 January 2007 subject to re-election by shareholders) a term running 
Len Konar 17 March 2010 until the AGM three years from that date, subject to the 
Jonathan Leslie 4 June 2009 Company’s Articles of Association. No compensation 
David Munroe 19 August 2007 is payable to Non-executive Directors for loss of office.
Cyril Ramaphosa 18 October 2010
Roger Phillimore 23 January 2007
Jim Sutcliffe 11 August 2007
Notwithstanding the terms of their letters of appointment, all Non-executive Directors will stand for re-election on an annual
basis with effect from the 2011 AGM in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report was approved by the Board on 12 November 2010.
Jim Sutcliffe
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 95
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
for the year ended 30 September 2010
APPENDIX
Older long term incentive arrangements
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP)
In 2008 and earlier years, Executive Directors were offered the opportunity to participate in the DABP , pursuant to which a
minimum of one-third of the net cash bonus due to each executive was invested in the DABP , with the ability to elect to invest any
greater amount up to the whole of their net bonus. The funds invested were used to buy Lonmin shares in the open market via the
Company’s employee benefit trust. At the date the shares were purchased, the trustees made a ‘Matched Award’ to the executive
which, subject to the attainment of performance conditions, could enable matching of the number of shares bought by the
executive of up to one for one (for 2007, two for one), on an after tax basis.
The two performance conditions used historically were RTSR and EBIT for awards up to 2007 and RTSR and absolute share
price for 2008. These measures were chosen because the Committee felt they best reflected both the key imperatives on
management at the relevant time and also provided an equal focus on the delivery of value to shareholders over the longer term.
The performance conditions are summarised below:
Basis of % of component of
Year of award performance conditions Performance conditions Performance award released
2006 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 50%
20 comparator companies Target (62.5th percentile) 75%
Stretch (75th percentile) 100%
50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2009 Threshold 50%
Target 75%
Stretch 100%
2007 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 20%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 70%
Stretch (90th percentile) 100%
50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2010 Threshold 20%
Target 60%
Stretch 100%
2008 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold (median) 20%
20 comparator companies Target (75th percentile) 70%
Stretch (90th percentile) 100%
50% Share Price Lonmin Plc share price on Threshold 20%
London Stock Exchange Stretch 100%
Following the 2007 Annual General Meeting, to improve the retention characteristics of the Plan, a mandatory deferral of
bonuses was introduced, commencing with those paid in November 2007. Where there is a mandatory bonus deferral, such an
amount is forfeitable should the executive leave during the three year performance period, other than for ‘good leaver’ reasons. In
return, the Matched Award is made on the basis of two shares for each Invested Share acquired. Half of the shares subject to the
Matched Award will normally vest at the end of the performance period, subject to the employee remaining with the Group and to
the extent that the related Invested Shares are retained. One quarter of the shares subject to a Matched Award will vest subject
also to satisfaction of a RTSR performance condition and the final quarter subject to an EBIT target. The employee was also able
to apply the remainder of their bonus to acquire Invested Shares (without risk of forfeiture) with a 1:1 match, subject to satisfaction
of the same RTSR and EBIT performance conditions.
For bonuses paid in 2008, the Remuneration Committee determined that the DABP would be operated on the same basis that
applied to voluntary deferral in 2007, save that the Committee determined that an absolute share price target would be substituted
for the EBIT target.
As reported above and as in 2009, the matching element of the Plan is not being used for bonuses in respect of the year
ending 2010. The Company currently has no intention that any Matched Awards should be granted under the DABP in future.
Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS)
These legacy schemes expired in March 2007 and, although an ESOS is contained within the rules of the Shareholder Value
Incentive Plan, the Committee has not made, and does not intend to make, any grants under that scheme.
Awards made since 1994 have been subject to performance conditions. Details of these conditions for the Company’s various
tranches of executive share options that remain outstanding are as follows:
• Options granted in or after 1998 but before 2002: total return to shareholders must be greater than the total return on the
Mining Sector of the FTSE Actuaries Share Indices over any consecutive thirty six month period.
• Options granted in or after 2002: total return to shareholders must be greater than that on the Mining Sector of the FTSE Actuaries
Share Indices in one of the periods of three, four, five or six years following the date of grant, in each case relative to a fixed base year.
The performance conditions attaching to all outstanding options have been attained and these options duly became exercisable.
Sharesave
The Company historically offered an HMRC approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme to all UK-remunerated employees,
including the Executive Directors. Under this Scheme, the participant enters into a savings contract and in return is granted an option
over the Company’s shares to be funded by the balance on their savings account at the end of the contractual savings period. The
option price may, at the Committee’s discretion, be at a discount of up to 20% to the prevailing mid-market price at the date of invitation.
With the exception of the 2005 awards, the Company has historically granted all such options with a 20% discount, including those held
by Ian Farmer. The Sharesave Scheme expired in March 2007 although options granted prior to that date continue to subsist. 96
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF LONMIN PLC
We have audited the financial statements of Lonmin Plc for the year ended 30 September 2010 set out on pages 98 to 144. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required
to state to them in an Auditors’ Report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 97, the Directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s web-site at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP .
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 
30 September 2010 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice;
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; 
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent
with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Lynton Richmond (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
London
12 November 2010 97
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN
RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN
RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the group and parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting
Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the
Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of
the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation
taken as a whole; and
• the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal
risks and uncertainties that they face.
Roger Phillimore Alan Ferguson
Chairman Chief Financial Officer
12 November 2010 98
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 30 September
Special Special
2010 items 2010 2009 items 2009
Underlying
i
(note 3) Total Underlying
i
(note 3) Total
Continuing operations Note $m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue 2 1,585 – 1,585 1,062 – 1,062 
EBITDA / (LBITDA)
ii
350 (13) 337 1 (49) (48)
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (122) (12) (134) (94) – (94)
Operating profit / (loss)
iii
4 228 (25) 203 (93) (49) (142)
Impairment of available for sale 
financial assets 14 – – – – (39) (39)
Finance income 6 10 28 38 9 – 9 
Finance expenses 6 (9) – (9) (28) (73) (101)
Share of profit of equity 
accounted investments 13 8 – 8 1 – 1 
Profit / (loss) before taxation 237 3 240 (111) (161) (272)
Income tax expense
iv
7 (80) (38) (118) (18) (33) (51)
Profit / (loss) for the year 157 (35) 122 (129) (194) (323)
Attributable to:
– Equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 138 (26) 112 (103) (182) (285)
– Non-controlling interests 19 (9) 10 (26) (12) (38)
Earnings / (loss) per share 8 70.2c 56.9c (59.2)c (163.7)c
Diluted earnings / (loss) per share
v
8 70.0c 56.8c (59.2)c (163.7)c
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT 
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 30 September
2010 2009
Total Total
Note $m $m
Profit / (loss) for the year 122 (323)
Other comprehensive income / (expense):
– Change in fair value of available for sale financial assets 14 (6) 9 
– Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges 1 5 
– Gains on settled cash flow hedges released to the income statement (3) (24)
– Foreign exchange on retranslation of equity accounted investments 13 3 6 
– Deferred tax on items taken directly to the statement of comprehensive income 1 6 
Total comprehensive income / (expense) for the year 118 (321)
Attributable to:
– Equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 107 (280)
– Non-controlling interests 11 (41)
118 (321)
Footnotes:
i Underlying results and earnings per share are based on reported results and earnings per share excluding the effect of special items as defined in note 3.
ii EBITDA / (LBITDA) is operating profit / (loss) before depreciation, amortisation and impairment of goodwill, intangibles and property, plant and equipment.
iii Operating profit / (loss) is defined as revenue less operating expenses before impairment of available for sale financial assets, finance income and
expenses and share of profit of equity accounted investments. 
iv The income tax expense substantially relates to overseas taxation and includes net exchange losses of $37 million (2009 – exchange losses of $38 million)
as disclosed in note 7.
v Diluted earnings / (loss) per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive outstanding share options. 
For the year ended 30 September 2009 outstanding share options were anti-dilutive and so have been excluded from diluted loss per share in
accordance with IAS 33 – Earnings Per Share. 99
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
as at 30 September
2010 2009 2008
Note $m $m $m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 113 113 113 
Intangible assets 11 978 964 949 
Property, plant and equipment 12 2,199 2,036 1,893 
Equity accounted investments 13 172 159 163 
Other financial assets 14 404 93 115 
3,866 3,365 3,233 
Current assets
Inventories 16 396 271 319 
Trade and other receivables 17 414 287 326 
Assets held for sale 18 – 6 6 
Tax recoverable – 1 5 
Derivative financial instruments 21 – 1 20 
Cash and cash equivalents 33 148 282 226 
958 848 902 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 (381) (337) (346)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 20 (66) (58) – 
Derivative financial instruments 21 (1) – – 
Tax payable (6) (10) (55)
(454) (405) (401)
Net current assets 504 443 501 
Non-current liabilities
Employee benefits 15 – (11) (21)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 20 (457) (349) (529)
Deferred tax liabilities
i
23 (751) (643) (604)
Provisions 24 (80) (67) (50)
(1,288) (1,070) (1,204)
Net assets
i
3,082 2,738 2,530 
Capital and reserves
Share capital 26 202 193 156 
Share premium 26 997 776 305 
Other reserves 88 89 100 
Retained earnings
i
1,422 1,298 1,525 
Attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc
i
2,709 2,356 2,086 
Attributable to non-controlling interests
i
373 382 444 
Total equity
i
3,082 2,738 2,530 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 November 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roger Phillimore Chairman
Alan Ferguson Chief Financial Officer
Footnote:
i 2008 and 2009 deferred tax liabilities were restated as disclosed in note 23 impacting net assets accordingly. This has also impacted retained earnings,
including the split between equity shareholders and non-controlling interests, and total equity as shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. 100
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 30 September
Equity interest
Called Share Non-
up share premium Other Retained controlling Total
capital account reserves
i
earnings
ii
Total interests
iii
equity
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2008 
as previously reported 156 305 100 1,586 2,147 447 2,594 
Correction – – – (61) (61) (3) (64)
At 1 October 2008 (restated
iv
) 156 305 100 1,525 2,086 444 2,530 
Loss for the year – – – (285) (285) (38) (323)
Total other comprehensive 
(expense) / income: – – (11) 16 5 (3) 2 
– Change in fair value of available
for sale financial assets – – – 9 9 – 9 
– Net change in fair value 
of cash flow hedges – – 4 – 4 1 5 
– Gains on settled cash flow 
hedges released to the income 
statement – – (20) – (20) (4) (24)
– Foreign exchange gain on 
retranslation of equity 
accounted investments – – – 6 6 – 6 
– Deferred tax on items taken 
directly to the statement 
of comprehensive income – – 5 1 6 – 6 
Items recognised directly in equity: 37 471 – 42 550 (21) 529 
– Share-based payments – – – 2 2 – 2 
– Share capital and share premium
recognised on equity issuance
v
35 477 – – 512 – 512 
– Equity issue costs charged 
to share premium
v
– (21) – – (21) – (21)
– Exchange gain on shares 
to be issued
v
– – – 4 4 – 4 
– Reversal of fair value movements 
on derivative liability recognised 
on equity issuance
v
– – – 36 36 – 36 
– Shares issued on exercise 
of share options
vi
1 – – – 1 – 1 
– Shares issued under the 
IFC option agreement
vii
1 15 – – 16 – 16 
– Dividends – – – – – (21) (21)
At 30 September 2009 (restated
iv
) 193 776 89 1,298 2,356 382 2,738  101
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Equity interest
Called Share Non-
up share premium Other Retained controlling Total
capital account reserves
i
earnings
ii
Total interests
iii
equity
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2009 
as previously reported 193 776 89 1,359 2,417 385 2,802 
Correction – – – (61) (61) (3) (64)
At 1 October 2009 (restated
iv
) 193 776 89 1,298 2,356 382 2,738 
Profit for the year – – – 112 112 10 122 
Total other comprehensive 
(expense) / income: – – (1) (4) (5) 1 (4)
– Change in fair value of available 
for sale financial assets – – – (6) (6) – (6)
– Net change in fair value 
of cash flow hedges – – 1 – 1 – 1 
– Gains on settled cash flow 
hedges released to the income 
statement – – (3) – (3) – (3)
– Foreign exchange gain on 
retranslation of equity 
accounted investments – – – 2 2 1 3 
– Deferred tax on items taken 
directly to the statement 
of comprehensive income – – 1 – 1 – 1 
Items recognised directly in 
equity: 9 221 – 16 246 (20) 226 
– Share-based payments – – – 4 4 1 5 
– Transfer from liability 
for own shares
viii
– – – 14 14 1 15 
– Share capital and share 
premium recognised on equity 
issuance
ix
9 224 – – 233 – 233 
– Equity issue costs charged to 
share premium
ix
– (4) – – (4) – (4)
– Reversal of fair value 
movements on derivative liability
recognised on equity issuance
ix
– – – (2) (2) – (2)
– Shares issued on exercise 
of share options
vi
– 1 – – 1 – 1 
– Dividends – – – – – (22) (22)
At 30 September 2010 202 997 88 1,422 2,709 373 3,082 
Footnotes:
i Other reserves at 30 September 2010 represent the capital redemption reserve of $88 million (2009 – $88 million) and a $nil hedging reserve net of
deferred tax (30 September 2009 – $1 million credit hedging reserve net of deferred tax). The movement in the current year represents the movement 
on the hedging reserve.
ii Retained earnings include $16 million of accumulated credits in respect of fair value movements on available for sale financial assets (2009 – $22 million
accumulated credits) and a $14 million credit of accumulated exchange on retranslation of equity accounted investments (2009 – $11 million credit).
iii Non-controlling interests represent an 18% shareholding in Eastern Platinum Limited, Western Platinum Limited and Messina Limited and a 26%
shareholding in Akanani Mining (Pty) Limited.
iv Retained earnings as at 1 October 2008 and 30 September 2009 have been restated as disclosed in note 23.
v During the prior year the Group undertook a Rights Issue in which 35,072,129 shares were issued (note 29).
vi During the year 173,936 share options were exercised (2009 – 426,315) on which $1 million of cash was received (2009 – $1 million).
vii In the prior year 1,172,583 shares were issued under the International Finance Corporation option agreement. As the shares were issued at a discount
only $15 million of cash was received.
viii During the year the Directors took the policy decision that all award schemes will be satisfied by equity shares for the foreseeable future. As a result the
balance on the liability for own shares relating to previously cash settled schemes was transferred to the reserve for own shares.
ix During the year the Group completed an equity placing of 9,064,249 shares for net proceeds of $229 million. As disclosed in note 3, under IAS 32 this
resulted in the recognition of the transaction as a derivative liability with fair value movements taken through the income statement until settlement. 
On settlement movements in fair value were reversed through equity.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 30 September 102
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the year ended 30 September
2010 2009 
Note $m $m 
Profit / (loss) for the year 122 (323)
Taxation 7 118 51 
Share of profit of equity accounted investments 13 (8) (1)
Finance income 6 (38) (9)
Finance expenses 6 9 101 
Impairment of available for sale financial assets 3 – 39 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 134 94 
Change in inventories (125) 48 
Change in trade and other receivables (138) 59 
Change in trade and other payables 40 (9)
Change in provisions 5 12 
Share-based payments 9 (1)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5 4 
Other non cash expenses – (2)
Cash flow from operations 133 63 
Interest received 3 3 
Interest and bank fees paid (44) (34)
Tax paid (12) (48)
Cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities 80 (16)
Cash flow from investing activities
Investment in joint venture 13 (3) (5)
HDSA financing 14 (285) – 
Dividend received from associate – 3 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (259) (221)
Purchase of intangible assets (2) (13)
Cash used in investing activities (549) (236)
Cash flow from financing activities
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (22) (21)
Proceeds from current borrowings 33 60 58 
Repayment of current borrowings 33 (47) – 
Proceeds from non-current borrowings 33 113 225 
Repayment of non-current borrowings 33 – (405)
Proceeds from equity issuance 233 516 
Costs of issuing shares (4) (21)
Loss on forward exchange contracts on equity issuance 3, 29 – (33)
Issue of other ordinary share capital 1 16 
Cash from financing activities 334 335 
(Decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents 33 (135) 83 
Opening cash and cash equivalents 33 282 226 
Effect of exchange rate changes 33 1 (27)
Closing cash and cash equivalents 33 148 282  103
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
1 Statement on accounting policies
Reporting entity
Lonmin Plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the UK. The address of the Company’s registered office is 
4 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7YL. The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year 
ended 30 September 2010 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) and the 
Group’s interest in equity accounted investments. 
Basis of preparation
Statement of compliance
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as
adopted by the EU (adopted IFRSs) and approved by the Directors on this basis.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are
presented on pages 138 to 144. The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a
separate entity and not about its Group. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 November 2010. 
Basis of measurement
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following:
• Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
• Available for sale assets are measured at fair value.
• Liabilities for cash settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value.
• Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
No changes in the accounting policies have had any effect on the consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with IAS 8 – Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, the 2008 and 2009
consolidated statements of financial position have been restated to reflect an additional $64 million of deferred tax liabilities
which were not recognised in relation to certain fair value consolidation adjustments on the transition to IFRS which occurred in
the year ended 30 September 2006. The restatement has no cash impact. The additional liability will unwind as the related
assets are amortised which will result in a tax credit of approximately $2 million tax credit to the income statement which is not
considered material. Please see note 23 for full details.
After making due enquiries, and reviewing forecasts which take into account reasonably possible changes in performance,
the Directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts. 
Management’s review of the factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the business and
the approach to financial risk management are given in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 27 and the in the Internal Controls
and Risk Management section on pages 28 to 33. 
Functional and presentation currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company and its
principal operations.
Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The primary areas in which estimates and judgements are applied are as follows:
Impairment of assets
The carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for which the key assumptions, and
management approach for determining these, are described in the policy on Impairment.
Reserves and resources
Reserves and resources are determined by Competent Persons and audited bi-annually according to the South African code
for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (SAMREC). The determination of resources
and reserves requires a wide variety of assessments regarding the geology of the ore body, the mining plans and economic
viability which are all subject to inherent uncertainties. Changes in proven and probable reserves have a direct impact on
depreciation rates applied to mining assets which are calculated on a units of production basis.
Inventory
Inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain reflecting the stage of refinement. Prior to production as final
metal the inventory is always contained within a carrier material. As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken to
determine the metal content and how this is split by metal. Measurement and sampling accuracy can vary quite significantly
depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material. Management judgement, therefore, is also applied. 104
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Rehabilitation costs
The nature of the mining and processing operations of the Group gives rise to environmental obligations which are reflected in
the rehabilitation provision. The level of provision needs to reflect the present value of the future remediation costs. Estimating
the future remediation costs involves significant judgments including for example the local geography and geology, whether
contamination has occurred and, if so, the nature of contaminants involved and the remediation approach to be taken and the
likely costs which would be incurred. Such judgments are made using advice from expert advisors. In addition, the outflows in
respect of rehabilitation are generally far into the future. Judgment is therefore also involved in estimating the timing of the cash
flow and in the discounting factors to determine the present value.
HDSA financing
Accounting for the financing provided by Lonmin for Shanduka’s acquisition of the non-controlling interests in Lonmin’s
principal subsidiaries is considered in detail in note 28, and further in note 22.
Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in
these Group financial statements, and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial
and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that
are currently exercisable are taken into account. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition at
which date control commences or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate, at which date control ceases. Where
necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the
accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Associates
An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant
influence but not control over the financial and operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group
holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity. Associates are accounted for using the equity method and
are initially measured at cost. The Group’s investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the income and expenses and equity movements of any
associates, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence
commences until the date that significant influence ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity
accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to nil and the
recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on
behalf of the investee.
Joint ventures
The Group undertakes a number of business activities through joint ventures. Joint ventures are established through
contractual arrangements which result in the strategic, financial and operating policies of the venture being jointly controlled.
Such joint ventures are treated as jointly controlled entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and
joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are
eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group entities
using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary
assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising
on the retranslation of available for sale financial assets which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 105
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Revenue
Revenue is derived from the sale of metal inventories and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable,
after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes. A sale is recognised when: the significant
risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer (this is generally when title and insurance risk have passed to the
customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location); recovery of the consideration is probable; the
associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably; there is no continuing management involvement with
the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. In certain circumstances, for example sometimes in the sale
of part-processed material, metal prices at the point of sale may be provisional. The impact of changes in metal prices to the
point of settlement are reflected through revenue and receivables.
All third-party metal sales are recognised as revenue. The Group does not credit capitalised development costs with
income arising from production in development phases but rather recognises such metal as inventory (see Inventories policy).
Finance income and expenses
Finance income comprises interest on funds invested (including available for sale financial assets), dividend income, gains on
the disposal of available for sale financial assets net of costs of disposal, expected returns on pension scheme assets, and
gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principle outstanding and the effective interest rate
applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Group’s rights to receive payment have been established.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees (which are capitalised and amortised over the life of
the facility), unwinding of discount on provisions, interest costs of pension scheme liabilities, and losses on hedging
instruments that are recognised in the income statement. 
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method except for borrowing costs
which are directly attributable to the acquisition, or construction of an asset. Such costs are capitalised to property, plant and
equipment or intangible assets during the period of construction or development provided that future economic benefit is
considered probable. Capitalised interest is shown as interest paid in the consolidated cash flow statement.
The Company’s accounting policies in respect of the hybrid financial instrument issued to it by Shanduka, its Black
Economic Empowerment partner, are detailed in the financial instruments section. 
Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received. 
Research and development
Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure which meets the recognition criteria for an intangible asset under IAS 38 – Intangible Assets, 
is capitalised and then amortised over the useful economic life of the developed asset, otherwise it is charged to the income
statement as incurred. Borrowing costs related to the development of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Capitalised development expenditure is recognised at cost, and subsequently carried at cost less any accumulated
impairment losses, where it can be demonstrated that the expenditure will result in completion of an asset which, when
available for use or sale, will result in future economic benefit arising for the Group. 
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral
reserves and includes costs relating to the following: acquisition of exploration rights; conducting geological studies; exploratory
drilling and sampling and evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource.
Expenditure incurred on activities that precede exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, being all expenditure
incurred prior to securing the legal rights to explore an area, is expensed immediately.
Expenditure towards in-house exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves for each area of interest is
expensed until it is considered probable that future economic benefit will arise through further exploration and subsequent
development of the area of interest or, alternatively, by its sale. 
Pre-feasibility studies involve the review of one or more potential development options with the aim of moving forward to
the more detailed feasibility study stage. Expenditure related to such studies is expensed in full as there is insufficient certainty
that future economic benefit will be generated at this stage of a project. 
Expenditure relating to feasibility studies which support the technical feasibility and commercial viability of an area is
capitalised under exploration and evaluation assets. 
Where a feasibility study reaches a favourable conclusion, accumulated exploration and evaluation costs are transferred to
mineral rights within intangibles or capital work in progress within property, plant and equipment as appropriate on
commencement of the development phase of the related project. Where the feasibility study reaches an adverse conclusion,
any previously capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off immediately. 
Expenditure on purchased exploration and evaluation assets is capitalised at fair value at the time of purchase. Subsequent
expenditure may be capitalised at cost. Carrying values are subject to impairment reviews as per the Group’s policy. Exploration
and evaluation expenditure is classified as property, plant and equipment or intangible depending on the nature of the expenditure.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is a class of assets which are not available for use. Therefore amortisation
is not provided on such assets.
Mineral mining rights, which are obtained following the completion of a feasibility study, are not included within exploration
and evaluation expenditure. They are capitalised at cost under IAS 38 – Intangible Assets and are amortised on a units of
production basis over the life of the mine.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 106
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Share-based payment
From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is
recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become
unconditionally entitled to payment. The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date. Any changes in
the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or
a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award. Market related performance conditions are reflected in
the fair value of the share. Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the
number of awards expected to vest; the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market
conditions are met.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes in accordance with local regulations. A defined contribution
plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity and has no
legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are
recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due. 
Taxation
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax to be paid or recovered on the taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted or
substantively enacted at the reporting date during the periods being reported upon, and any adjustments to tax payable in
respect of previous years. Current tax also includes secondary tax charges on dividends remitted which are recognised upon
the declaration of relevant dividends.
Deferred tax as directed by IAS 12 – Income Taxes is recognised in respect of certain temporary differences identified at
the balance sheet date. Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Group’s assets and
liabilities and their tax base.
A deferred tax liability is recognised in a business combination in respect of any identified intangible asset representing the
difference between the fair value of the acquired asset and its tax base. Recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of such
a difference gives rise to a corresponding increase in goodwill recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax Group
where the entities have the right to settle current tax liabilities net. Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when,
on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same
jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising in relation to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities
and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax relating to the secondary tax charges on the remittance of overseas earnings is provided to the extent that
such remittance of earnings can reasonably be foreseen. 
Business combinations and goodwill
At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, associate or joint venture fair values are attributed to the acquired
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Any provisional fair values are finalised within twelve months of the
acquisition date. Goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the purchase consideration and the acquired
interest in the fair values of those net assets. Goodwill is initially recognised at fair value. Any negative goodwill is credited to
the income statement in the year of acquisition. If an undertaking is subsequently sold, the amount of goodwill carried on the
balance sheet at the date of disposal is charged to the income statement in the period of disposal as part of the gain or loss
on disposal.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures which are equity accounted for is included within the Group’s
investments. Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of the associate.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired by the Group have finite useful lives and are measured at cost less
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Where amortisation is charged on these assets, the expense 
is taken to the income statement through operating costs.
Amortisation of mineral rights is provided on a units of production basis over the remaining life of mine to residual value 
(20 to 40 years).
All other intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives subject to a maximum of 20 years and are tested
for impairment at each reporting date when there is an indication of a possible impairment.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 107
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Property, plant and equipment
Recognition
Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at cost and subsequently less accumulated depreciation and
any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets
includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working
condition for its intended use, and any other costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they
are located. Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency
purchases of property, plant and equipment. Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets
are capitalised to the cost of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds on
disposal with the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and are recognised net in the income statement. 
Componentisation
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as
separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it
is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured
reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised upon replacement. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of
property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Capital work in progress
Development costs are capitalised and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when available
for use. 
Capitalised development costs include expenditure incurred to develop new operations and to expand existing capacity.
Costs include interest capitalised during the period up to the level that the qualifying assets permit. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line or units of production basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives or the
remaining life of mine, if shorter, to residual value. The life of mine is based on proven and probable reserves. The expected
useful lives of the major categories of property, plant and equipment are as follows:
Method Rate
Shafts and underground Units of production 2.5% – 5.0% per annum 20 – 40 years
Metallurgical Straight line 2.5% – 7.1% per annum 14 – 40 years
Infrastructure Straight line 2.5% – 2.9% per annum 35 – 40 years
Other plant and equipment Straight line 2.5% – 50.0% per annum 2 – 40 years
No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
Impairment
The Group’s principal assets are property, plant and equipment, intangibles and goodwill associated with exploration and
evaluation, mining and processing activities. For the purpose of assessing recoverable amount, these assets are grouped into
cash generating units (“CGUs”).
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. At each balance sheet date, the Group
assesses whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount
of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment (if any).
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually regardless of whether an indication of
impairment exists.
Items of property, plant and equipment that are not in use are reviewed annually for impairment on a fair value less costs to
sell basis.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the
asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 108
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Value in use
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, based on the most up to date business forecasts, are discounted to
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the
risks specific to the assets for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
The key assumptions contained within the business forecasts and management’s approach to determine appropriate
values are set out below:
Key Assumption Management Approach
PGM prices Projections are determined through a combination of the views of the Directors, market
estimates and forecasts and other sector information.
Production volume Projections are based on the capacity and expected operational capabilities of the
mines, the grade of the ore, and the efficiencies of processing and refining operations.
Production costs Projections are based on current cost adjusted for expected cost changes as well as
giving consideration to specific issues such as the difficulty in mining particular sections
of the reef and the mining method employed.
Capital expenditure requirements Projections are based on the operational plan, which sets out the long term plan of the
business and is approved by the Board.
Foreign currency exchange rates Projections are made using external sources of information.
Reserves and resources of the CGU Projections are determined through surveys performed by Competent Persons and the
views of the Directors of the Company.
Management uses past experience and assessment of future conditions, together with external sources of information in
order to assign values to the key assumptions.
Management has projected cash flows over the life of the relevant mining operation which is significantly greater than 5
years. Projecting cash flows over a period longer than 5 years is in line with industry practice and is supported by the Group’s
history of the resources expected to be found being proven to exist. Management does not apply a growth rate because a
detailed life of mine plan is used to forecast future production volumes.
For each CGU a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate based on the weighted average cost of capital for Group is used for
impairment testing. The key factors affecting the risk premium applied are the relevant stage of the development of the asset in
the CGU (extensions to existing operations having significantly lower risk than evaluation projects for example), the level of
knowledge and consistency of the ore body and sovereign risk. The real weighted average cost of capital applied to goodwill in
the Marikana CGU was 8% (2009 – 8%).
In preparing the financial statements, management has considered whether a reasonably possible change in the key
assumptions on which management has based its determination of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs would cause the
units’ carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts. For the Marikana CGU, because of the forecast for long-term
PGM prices and the very significant reserves and resources in the ground, management do not believe that a reasonably
possible change in any of the key assumptions would lead to impairment.
Fair value less costs to sell
Fair value less costs to sell has been determined by reference to the best information available to reflect the amount that the
Group could receive for the CGU in an arm’s length transaction.
When comparable market transactions or public valuations of similar assets exist these are used as a source of evidence.
However, the Group believes that mining CGUs tend to be unique and have their value determined largely by the nature of the
underlying ore body. The fair value therefore is typically determined by calculating the value of the CGU using an appropriate
valuation methodology such as calculating the post-tax net present value using a discounted cash flow forecast (as described
in value in use). 
Akanani exploration and evaluation asset
The resources at Akanani include the exploration and evaluation asset, a deferred tax liability and tax goodwill. The exploration
and evaluation asset includes an amount for tax amortisation benefit. A deferred tax liability was created on acquisition but
because deferred tax liabilities are not discounted and the tax amortisation benefits are, a ‘tax goodwill’ balance was created.
This tax goodwill balance represents the effect of not discounting the deferred tax liability. 
For the Akanani CGU management’s assessment of mineral resources and reserves is higher than that at acquisition and
there has been limited change in anticipated long-term metal prices since this time. For the Akanani CGU management do not
believe there are relevant market transactions which can be used to consider the asset on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
Management do not believe there are any current indicators of impairment. Given the Akanani CGU is at the exploration and
evaluation stage it is reasonably possible that the completion of that stage will result in changes to indicated and inferred
reserves of PGM ounces and the quantity of resources is also sensitive to the long-term metal prices. Adverse changes in
reserves and resources or long-term metal prices might cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying amount of the
CGU. Any adverse impact on the Akanani exploration and evaluation asset could have a direct impact on the carrying value of
the tax goodwill which has to be assessed under IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets. As the PGM ounces are only indicated and
inferred, and plans for the extraction of the mineral resource are not that far advanced, it is considered impractical to provide
quantified sensitivities and an estimate of what headroom, if any, exists.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 109
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Goodwill
The recoverable amount of goodwill, as allocated to relevant CGUs, has been tested for impairment annually, or when such
events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. 
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Impairment losses within a CGU are allocated first to goodwill and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets
in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Exploration and evaluation assets
Under IFRS 6 exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the
carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amount. When this occurs, any impairment loss is immediately
charged to the income statement. 
Reversal of impairment
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a previously recognised impairment loss
has reversed. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable
amount. An impairment loss is only reversed to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, had the impairment not been made. A
reversal of impairment is recognised as income immediately.
Leases
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present
value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset as determined at the inception of the lease. The
obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans and
other borrowings, with the amount payable within 12 months included in bank overdrafts and loans within current liabilities.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant rate
of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period. Rentals under operating leases are charged
to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Assets held for sale
When an asset’s carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, to take place within twelve months of
the balance sheet date, rather than through continuing use it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying
value and fair value less costs to sell. No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Immediately prior to sale the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. 
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (which includes the applicable proportion of production overheads) and net
realisable value. 
Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) inventory is valued by allocating costs, based on the joint cost of production, apportioned
according to the relative sales value of each of the platinum group metals produced.
By-product metals are valued at the incremental cost of production from the point of split-off from the PGM processing
stream.
In the process of initially developing the ore reserve it is common that metal is produced, although not at normal operating
levels. Development is split into different phases according to the mining method used with differing levels of production
expected in each phase. The Group recognises the metal produced in each development phase in inventory with an
appropriate proportion of cost as operating costs. This allocation is calculated by reference to the produced volumes in relation
to the total volumes expected from the development.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily
convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original
maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents
as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as the bank overdraft is repayable on demand and forms an integral part
of the Group’s cash management.
Rehabilitation costs
Rehabilitation costs are provided in full based on estimates of the future costs to be incurred, calculated on a discounted
basis. As the provision is recognised, it is either capitalised as part of the cost of the related mine or written off to the income
statement if utilised within one year. Where costs are capitalised the impact of such costs on the income statement is spread
over the life of mine through the accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation over a units of production basis
of the increased costs of the mining assets.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 110
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Provisions
Provision is made when a present or legal obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount
of the obligation can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the
obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. 
Financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments (other than derivatives) comprise bank loans, available for sale financial assets,
trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and short-term deposits. 
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the
income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial
instruments are measured as described below.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. These also comprise bank overdrafts that are
repayable on demand, for the purpose of the cash flow statement only.
Investments are classified into loans and receivables, held-to-maturity and available for sale. The classification depends on
the purpose for which the investments were acquired, the nature of the investments and whether the investment is quoted or
not. The classification of investments is determined at initial recognition. 
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables and investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortised cost and gains or losses are
recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation
process.
The Company is the holder of a financial instrument issued by its Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) partner, Shanduka.
The loan component of the hybrid instrument was recognised initially at fair value and thereafter will be held at amortised cost.
The loan is denominated in Sterling. 
Available for sale financial assets
The Group’s investments in equity securities and certain debt securities are classified as available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except when
market value has fallen below original cost when the losses are taken to the income statement together with any foreign
exchange gains or losses arising whilst the asset is impaired. When an investment is written off or sold, any cumulative gains or
losses in equity are recycled into the income statement. Fair value is determined by using the market price at the balance sheet
date where this is available. Where market price is not available the Directors’ best estimates of market value are used.
Bank loans
Bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, net of transaction costs incurred, and are adjusted to amortise transaction costs
over the term of the loan.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are principally used by the Group to manage exposure to market risks from treasury operations
and commodity price risks on by-products. The principal derivative instruments used are foreign currency swaps, interest rate
swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward price agreements on by-products. The Group does not hold or issue
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 
The financial instrument issued by Shanduka to the Company contains a derivative component which has a fair value
determined by a valuation model which requires unobservable management assumptions to be made. As such the derivative
falls within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and, at recognition, no “day one gains” can be made. Hence, the unobservable
assumptions have been adjusted downwards to eliminate the day one gain. These adjustments will only be amended post
recognition to the extent that a change occurs in factors which market participants would consider in setting a price.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value. Attributable costs are recognised in
profit or loss when incurred and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value. The method of recognising the
resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the
item being hedged. Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is recognised directly in
equity if effective. Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately
in the income statement.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 111
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
1 Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Segmental reporting
The core principle of IFRS 8 – Operating Segments is that an entity shall disclose information to enable users to evaluate the
nature and financial effects of the business activities in which it engages and the economic environments in which it operates.
On this basis Lonmin has three reportable operating segments being:
• PGM Operations – which comprise operational mines and processing facilities which are located in South Africa.
• Evaluation – which relates to the Akanani asset which is located in South Africa and is in the evaluation stage.
• Exploration – this essentially relates to the costs of exploration projects which have the objective of identifying PGM
deposits which can be commercially realised and which can occur anywhere in the world.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated
on a reasonable basis. 
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and
intangible assets other than goodwill, and any capitalised interest.
New standards and amendments in the year
There were no new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the period which materially
impacted the Group’s financial statements.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations to IFRS as adopted by the EU, that are
effective for the current period, have been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements and have affected the
figures being disclosed. The following are of relevance to the Group:
• IFRS 8 – Operating Segments introduced the management approach to segment reporting. As a result of adopting IFRS 8
the Group’s segments have changed from Platinum, Corporate and Exploration to PGM Operations, Evaluation and
Exploration. The use of an “Other” column and a column for intersegment eliminations provides the required reconciliations
back to the consolidated figures.
• IAS 1 (amendment) – Presentation of Financial Statements affects the presentation of owner changes in equity (with the
requirement to present in a statement of changes in equity for all owner changes in equity) and to present a statement of
comprehensive income. It does not change the recognition, measurement or disclosure of specific transactions and other
events required by other IFRSs. 
• IAS 23 (amendment) – Borrowing Costs requires that an entity shall capitalise borrowing costs that are directly attributable
to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of the asset. This is in line with
Lonmin’s existing policy for capitalising borrowing costs and therefore has no effect on the Group’s results.
There were no other new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the period which
materially impacted the Group.
The following standard, issued by the IASB, is relevant to the Group but has not yet been adopted:
IAS 32 (amendment) – Classification of Rights Issue (effective 1 February 2010) allows rights issues which will exchange an
entity’s own equity for a fixed amount of cash in any currency to be treated as equity if the rights have been offered pro-rata to
all existing equity holders. The Rights Issue undertaken by the Group last year meets this criteria, however, as the amendment
had not been adopted by the EU at the time of signing the 2009 year end financial statements the amendment could not be
applied by the Group. During the 2010 year, the Group undertook an equity placing. This transaction did not meet the
requirements of IAS 32 as amended because this was not a rights issue. Since the net effect on retained earnings of both the
above transactions is $nil the Directors have decided not to adopt the amendment early and so not to restate the 2009
comparative figures.
The Group does not expect the adoption of other new, or revisions to existing, standards or interpretations issued by the
IASB, not listed above, to have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group. 
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 112
2 Segmental analysis
The Group distinguishes between 3 reportable operating segments being the Platinum Group Metals (PGM) Operations segment,
the Evaluation segment and the Exploration segment. The PGM Operations segment comprises the activities involved in the
mining and processing of PGMs, together with associated base metals, which are carried out entirely in South Africa. The
Evaluation segment covers the evaluation through pre-feasibility of the economic viability of newly discovered PGM deposits.
Currently all of the evaluation projects are based in South Africa. The Exploration segment covers the activities involved in the
discovery or identification of new PGM deposits. This activity occurs on a worldwide basis. No operating segments have been
aggregated. Operating segments have consistently adopted the consolidated basis of accounting and there are no differences
in measurement applied. Other covers mainly the results and investment activities of the corporate Head Office in London. The
only intersegment transactions involve the provision of funding between segments and any associated interest.
Year ended 30 September 2010
PGM
Operations Evaluation Exploration Intersegment
Segment Segment Segment Other Adjustments Total 
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue (external sales by product):
Platinum 1,078 – – – – 1,078 
Palladium 141 – – – – 141 
Gold 19 – – – – 19 
Rhodium 229 – – – – 229 
Ruthenium 27 – – – – 27 
Iridium 18 – – – – 18 
PGMs 1,512 – – – – 1,512 
Nickel 56 – – – – 56 
Copper 14 – – – – 14 
Chrome 3 – – – – 3 
1,585 – – – – 1,585 
Underlying
i
:
EBITDA / (LBITDA)
ii
359 (3) (6) – – 350 
Depreciation and amortisation (122) – – – – (122)
Operating profit / (loss)
ii
237 (3) (6) – – 228 
Finance income 3 – – 36 (29) 10 
Finance expenses (23) – – (15) 29 (9)
Share of profit of equity 
accounted investments 5 – – 3 – 8 
Profit / (loss) before taxation 222 (3) (6) 24 – 237 
Income tax (expense) / credit (82) (4) – 6 – (80)
Profit / (loss) after taxation 140 (7) (6) 30 – 157 
Total assets 3,537 843 4 963 (523) 4,824 
Total liabilities (1,888) (294) (46) (37) 523 (1,742)
Net assets 1,649 549 (42) 926 – 3,082 
Share of net assets of equity 
accounted investments 47 – – 125 – 172 
Additions to property, plant, equipment 
and intangibles 293 17 – – – 310 
Material non cash items –
share-based payments 9 – – – – 9 
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 113
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2009
PGM
Operations Evaluation Exploration Intersegment
Segment Segment Segment Other Adjustments Total 
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue (external sales by product):
Platinum 742 – – – – 742 
Palladium 68 – – – – 68 
Gold 17 – – – – 17 
Rhodium 148 – – – – 148 
Ruthenium 14 – – – – 14 
Iridium 10 – – – – 10 
PGMs 999 – – – – 999 
Nickel 50 – – – – 50 
Copper 13 – – – – 13 
1,062 – – – – 1,062 
Underlying
i
:
EBITDA / (LBITDA)
ii
11 (6) (11) 7 – 1 
Depreciation and amortisation (94) – – – – (94)
Operating (loss) / profit
ii
(83) (6) (11) 7 – (93)
Finance income 3 – – 9 (3) 9 
Finance expenses (31) – – – 3 (28)
Share of (loss) / profit of equity 
accounted investments (1) – – 2 – 1 
(Loss) / profit before taxation (112) (6) (11) 18 – (111)
Income tax expense (18) – – – – (18)
(Loss) / profit after taxation (130) (6) (11) 18 – (129)
Total assets 3,089 831 – 625 (332) 4,213 
Total liabilities
iii
(1,483) (257) (35) (32) 332 (1,475)
Net assets
iii
1,606 574 (35) 593 – 2,738 
Share of net assets of equity 
accounted investments 39 – – 120 – 159 
Additions to property, plant, equipment 
and intangibles 229 29 – – – 258 
Material non cash items –
share-based payments 4 – – – – 4 
Revenue by destination is analysed by geographical area below:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2010 2009
$m $m
The Americas 453 227 
Asia 373 296 
Europe 529 417 
South Africa 230 122 
1,585 1,062 
The Group’s revenues are all derived from the PGM Operations segment. This segment has 2 major customers who
contributed 69% and 23% of revenue in the year (2009 – 66% and 27%).
Metal sales prices are based on market prices which are denominated in US Dollars. The majority of sales are also invoiced
in US Dollars with the exception of certain sales in South Africa which are invoiced in South African Rand based on exchange
rates determined in accordance with the contractual arrangements.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 114
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
Non-current assets, excluding financial instruments, by geographical area are shown below:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2010 2009
$m $m
South Africa 3,461 3,271 
Europe 1 1 
3,462 3,272 
Footnotes:
i Underlying results are based on reported results excluding the effect of special items as defined in note 3.
ii EBITDA / (LBITDA) and operating profit / (loss) are the key profit measures used by management.
iii Total liabilities and net assets are restated as disclosed in note 23.
3 Special items
‘Special items’ are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of
the income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and for consistency
with prior years.
2010 2009
$m $m
Operating loss: (25) (49)
– Costs relating to HDSA financing
i
(5) – 
– Impairment of property, plant and equipment
ii
(12) – 
– Restructuring and reorganisation costs
iii
(9) (49)
– Pension refund 1 – 
Impairment of available for sale financial assets
iv
– (39)
Net finance income / (expense): 28 (73)
– Interest accrued from HDSA receivable
i
3 – 
– Exchange gain on HDSA receivable
i
11 – 
– Movement in fair value of HDSA derivative asset (notes 22g and 28) 12 – 
– Loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of equity issuance (note 29) – (33)
– Exchange difference on holding Rights Issue proceeds received in advance (note 29) – (4)
– Movement in fair value of derivative liability in respect of equity issuance
v
2 (36)
Profit / (loss) on special items before taxation 3 (161)
Taxation related to special items (note 7) (38) (33)
Special loss before non-controlling interests (35) (194)
Non-controlling interests 9 12 
Special loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc (26) (182)
Footnotes:
i As explained in note 28 the Group provided financing to assist Shanduka to acquire a majority shareholding in Incwala, Lonmin’s Black Economic
Empowerment partner. This financing has given rise to foreign exchange movements and the accrual of interest in the year. The Group also incurred
fees from advisors in relation to the transaction. 
ii During the year the Group took a strategic decision to enhance its smelting capacity by initiating the development of an additional pyromet furnace.
The most cost effective approach was to decommission the existing Merensky furnace and leverage the existing infrastructure. To the extent the
Merensky furnace assets could not be reutilised these have been written off. In addition, $2 million was written off with respect to houses for sale.
iii During the year the Group incurred $9 million in transition costs in relocating corporate functions from the London office to South Africa. In 2009 the
Group incurred $49 million restructuring costs together with abnormal non-productive operating costs at Limpopo following announcement of its
closure.
iv During the prior year certain available for sale financial assets were marked to market and fell below original acquisition costs resulting in $39 million
of impairment charges being taken to the income statement. 
v During the year the Group completed an equity placing of 9,064,249 ordinary shares. Since the equity was raised in Sterling and the functional
currency of the Group is US Dollars, the fair value of the derivative recognised under IAS 32 – Financial Instruments: Presentation increased by 
$2 million during the settlement period due to variations in the share price and foreign exchange. The transaction could not be treated as an equity
instrument, rather than a derivative, under the amendment to IAS 32 as it was not a Rights Issue. In the prior year a charge of $36 million arose 
on the Rights Issue as disclosed in note 29.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 115
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
4 Group operating profit / (loss)
Group operating profit / (loss) is arrived at as follows:
2010 2009
$m $m
Revenue 1,585 1,062 
Cost of sales (1,236) (1,088)
Gross profit / (loss) 349 (26)
Administration expenses (including foreign exchange, see below) (115) (56)
Exploration (note 2) (6) (11)
Special costs (note 3) (25) (49)
Group operating profit / (loss) 203 (142)
Group operating profit / (loss) is stated after charging / (crediting):
2010 2009
$m $m
Operating lease charges – land and buildings 1 1 
Depreciation charge – property, plant and equipment 108 80 
Amortisation charge – intangible assets 14 14 
Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments
i
12 10 
Share-based payments 9 4 
Foreign exchange losses / (gains) 29 (3)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5 4 
Special items (note 3) 25 49 
Footnote:
i Included within employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments is $7 million (2009 – $5 million) in respect of Directors.
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates included in operating costs:
2010 2009
$m $m 
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
Audit fees:
– Audit of annual accounts 
of the Company 0.2 – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
– Audit of annual accounts of the 
Company’s subsidiaries and associates 0.3 0.9 1.2 0.3 0.8 1.1
– Review of half year financial statements 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2
Audit related fees:
– Sustainability assurance services – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 0.1
– Consultation and advice on 
accounting standards and policies 0.2 – 0.2 0.1 – 0.1
Non-audit fees:
– Tax services – 0.1 0.1 –––
0.8 1.2 2.0 0.7 1.0 1.7
In 2009 fees of $0.6 million in relation to the Rights Issue were deducted from the share premium account.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 116
5 Employees
The average number of employees and Directors during the year was as follows:
2010 2009
No. No.
South Africa 22,751 21,944 
Europe 28 31 
Rest of world 2 25 
22,781 22,000 
The aggregate payroll costs of employees, key management and Directors were as follows:
2010 2009
Employee costs $m $m
Wages and salaries 591 455 
Social security costs 17 9 
Pension costs 42 33 
Share-based payments 9 4 
659 501 
The vast majority of employee costs are denominated in Rand and reported Dollar costs are therefore subject to foreign
exchange movements.
2010 2009
Key management compensation $m $m
Short-term employee benefits 9 9 
Termination payments 2 – 
Post-employment benefits 1 1 
Key management costs excluding share-based payments 12 10 
Share-based payments 2 1 
14 11 
The key management compensation analysed above represents amounts in respect of the Executive Committee (Exco) which
comprised the three Executive Directors and five other senior managers (2009 – two Executive Directors and five other senior
managers).
The Sterling equivalents of total Directors’ emoluments and emoluments of the highest paid Director together with full
details of Directors’ remuneration, pensions and benefits in kind are given in the Remuneration Committee Report.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 117
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
6 Net finance costs
2010 2009
$m $m
Finance income: 10 9 
– Interest receivable on cash and cash equivalents 2 3 
– Other interest receivable 7 – 
– Movement in fair value of HDSA receivables (note 14) – 3 
– Exchange gains on HDSA receivables (note 14) – 3 
– Exchange gains on net debt
i
1 – 
Finance expenses: (9) (28)
– Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (25) (15)
– Bank fees (20) (8)
– Capitalised interest
ii
43 23 
– Other finance expenses (1) – 
– Unwind of discounting on provisions (note 24) (6) (5)
– Exchange losses on net debt
i
– (23)
Special items (note 3): 28 (73)
– Interest on HDSA receivable (notes 14 and 28)
iii
3 – 
– Exchange gains on HDSA receivable (notes 14 and 28)
iii
11 – 
– Movement in fair value of HDSA derivative (notes 14 and 28)
iii
12 – 
– Loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of equity issuance (note 29) – (33)
– Exchange difference on holding Rights Issue proceeds received in advance (note 29) – (4)
– Movement in fair value of derivative liability in respect of equity issuance 2 (36)
Net finance income / (expense) 29 (92)
Footnotes:
i Net debt is defined by the Group as cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings
less unamortised bank fees.
ii Interest expenses incurred have been capitalised on a Group basis to the extent that there is an appropriate qualifying asset. The weighted average
interest rate used by the Group for capitalisation is 5.7% (2009 – 4.8%).
iii During the year Shanduka purchased a majority shareholding in Incwala, Lonmin’s Black Economic Empowerment partner. Lonmin provided a
Sterling loan to assist Shanduka in funding the transaction and this has therefore given rise to foreign exchange movements and accrued interest in
the period since the Sterling loan was drawn. This facility also included an embedded derivative. See note 28 for further details.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 118
7 Taxation
2010 2009
$m $m
Current tax charge (excluding special items):
United Kingdom tax credit (6) – 
Current tax (credit) / expense at 28% (2009 – 28%) (6) 33 
Less amount of the benefit arising from double tax relief available – (33)
Overseas current tax expense at 28% (2009 – 28%) 8 11 
Corporate tax expense – current year 9 1 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (3) – 
Tax on dividends remitted 2 10 
Deferred tax expense – UK and overseas 78 7 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 79 7 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (1) 12 
Tax on dividends unremitted – (12)
Special items – UK and overseas (note 3): 38 33 
Reversal of utilisation of losses from prior years to offset deferred tax liability
i
– 1 
Exchange on current taxation
i
1 (5)
Exchange on deferred taxation
i
36 43 
Tax on special items impacting profit before tax 1 (6)
Actual tax charge 118 51 
Tax charge excluding special items (note 3) 80 18 
Effective tax rate 49% (19%)
Effective tax rate excluding special items (note 3) 34% (16%)
A reconciliation of the standard tax charge to the actual tax charge was as follows:
2010 2010 2009 2009
% $m % $m
Tax charge / (credit) on profit / (loss) at standard tax rate 29 70 28 (76)
Tax effect of:
– Overseas taxes on dividends remitted by subsidiary companies 1 2 – – 
– Unutilised losses
ii
(2) (5) (7) 18 
– Foreign exchange impacts on taxable profits 6 14 (13) 35 
– Adjustment in respect of prior years (2) (4) (4) 10 
– Impairment of available for sale financial assets – – (4) 11 
– Losses in respect of Rights Issue – – (7) 20 
– Other 2 4 – – 
Special items as defined above 15 37 (12) 33 
Actual tax charge 49 118 (19) 51 
The Group’s primary operations are based in South Africa. Therefore, the relevant standard tax rate for the Group is the South
African statutory tax rate of 28% (2009 – 28%). Lonmin Plc operates a branch in South Africa which is subject to a tax rate 
of 33% on branch profits (2009 – 33%). The secondary tax rate on dividends remitted by South African companies is 10%
(2009 – 10%).
Footnotes:
i Overseas tax charges are predominantly calculated based on Rand financial statements. As the Group’s functional currency is US Dollar this leads to
a variety of foreign exchange impacts being the retranslation of current and deferred tax balances and monetary assets, as well as other translation
differences. The Rand denominated deferred tax balance in US Dollars at 30 September 2010 is $524 million (30 September 2009 – $412 million).
ii Unutilised losses reflect losses generated in entities for which no deferred tax is provided as it is not thought probable that future profits can be
generated against which a deferred tax asset could be offset or previously unrecognised losses utilised.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 119
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
8 Earnings / (loss) per share
Earnings / (loss) per share (EPS / (LPS)) have been calculated on the earnings attributable to equity shareholders amounting to
$112 million (2009 – loss $285 million) using a weighted average number of 196,684,833 ordinary shares in issue (2009 –
174,116,102 ordinary shares).
Diluted earnings / (loss) per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive
outstanding share options in accordance with IAS 33 – Earnings Per Share. In the 12 months to 30 September 2009 outstanding
share options were anti-dilutive and so were excluded from diluted loss per share in accordance with IAS 33 – Earnings Per Share.
2010 2009
Profit for Per share Loss for Per share
the year Number of amount the year Number of amount
$m shares cents $m shares cents
Basic EPS / (LPS) 112 196,684,833 56.9 (285) 174,116,102 (163.7)
Share option schemes – 489,302 (0.1) – – – 
Diluted EPS / (LPS) 112 197,174,135 56.8 (285) 174,116,102 (163.7)
2010 2009
Profit for Per share Loss for Per share
the year Number of amount the year Number of amount
$m shares cents $m shares cents
Underlying EPS / (LPS) 138 196,684,833 70.2 (103) 174,116,102 (59.2)
Share option schemes – 489,302 (0.2) – – – 
Diluted Underlying EPS / (LPS) 138 197,174,135 70.0 (103) 174,116,102 (59.2)
Underlying earnings / (loss) per share has been presented as the Directors consider it important to present the underlying
results of the business. Underlying earnings / (loss) per share is based on the earnings / (loss) attributable to equity
shareholders adjusted to exclude special items (as defined in note 3) as follows:
2010 2009
Profit Per share (Loss) / profit Per share
for the year Number of amount for the year Number of amount
$m shares cents $m shares cents
Basic EPS / (LPS) 112 196,684,833 56.9 (285) 174,116,102 (163.7)
Special items (note 3) 26 – 13.3 182 – 104.5 
Underlying EPS / (LPS) 138 196,684,833 70.2 (103) 174,116,102 (59.2)
Headline earnings / (loss) and the resultant headline earnings / (loss) per share are specific disclosures defined and required by
the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. These are calculated as follows: 
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2010 2009
$m $m
Earnings / (loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders (IAS 33 earnings) 112 (285)
Add back loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (note 4) 5 4 
Add back impairment of assets (note 3) 12 39 
Tax related to the above items (5) – 
Non-controlling interests (2) – 
Headline earnings / (loss) 122 (242)
2010 2009
Profit for Per share Loss for Per share
the year Number of amount the year Number of amount
$m shares cents $m shares cents
Headline EPS / (LPS) 122 196,684,833 62.0 (242) 174,116,102 (139.0)
Share option schemes – 489,302 (0.1) – – – 
Diluted Headline EPS / (LPS) 122 197,174,135 61.9 (242) 174,116,102 (139.0)
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 120
9 Dividends
No dividends were paid in the year (2009 – $nil).
2010 2009
$m Cents per share $m Cents per share
Prior year final dividend paid in the year – – – – 
Interim dividend paid in the year – – – – 
Total dividend paid in the year – – – – 
Interim dividend paid in the year – – – – 
Proposed final dividend for the year 30 15.0 – – 
Total dividend in respect of the year 30 15.0 – – 
10 Goodwill
2010 2009
$m $m
Cost:
At 30 September 186 186 
Impairment:
At 30 September 73 73 
Net book value at 30 September 113 113 
There are two cash generating units (CGUs) in the Group relevant for the purposes of evaluating goodwill. The Marikana CGU
operates as a single business and mines and processes substantially all of the ore produced by the Group. The Akanani CGU
is located in a separate geographic area and includes the Akanani asset acquired on the purchase of AfriOre Limited.
The recoverable amounts of each of the CGUs’ goodwill have been determined using the higher of value in use and fair
value less costs to sell.
In determining the recoverable amounts for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs the key assumptions have been set out in the
Group’s impairment policy (see note 1).
At 30 September 2010 and 30 September 2009 goodwill is allocated as follows:
– $40 million is allocated to the Marikana CGU which is within the PGM Operations segment. This arose on the buy out of
9.11% of the non-controlling interest in the principal mining operations of the Group in 2004. 
– $73 million ‘tax goodwill’ is allocated to the Akanani CGU which is within the Evaluation segment. This was generated on
the acquisition of the Akanani asset in 2007. 
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 121
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
11 Intangible assets
2010 2009
Exploration Exploration
and Mineral and Mineral
evaluation rights Other Total evaluation rights Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Cost:
At 1 October 695 337 47 1,079 666 337 47 1,050 
Additions 17 – – 17 29 – – 29 
Transfers (2) 7 6 11 – – – – 
At 30 September 710 344 53 1,107 695 337 47 1,079 
Amortisation:
At 1 October – 80 35 115 – 73 28 101 
Charge for the year – 7 7 14 – 7 7 14 
At 30 September – 87 42 129 – 80 35 115 
Net book value:
At 30 September 710 257 11 978 695 257 12 964 
The Group has exploration and evaluation assets of $710 million (2009 – $695 million) relating to the exploration and evaluation
operations at Akanani. After adding $73 million of tax goodwill (see note 10) and deducting deferred tax of $171 million the net
carrying value of Akanani in the books is $612 million including the non-controlling interests’ share (2009 – $601 million).
Additions to exploration and evaluation assets include $15 million of capitalised interest (2009 – $16 million).
The Group’s approach to assessing the intangible assets, including exploration and evaluation assets, for impairment is set
out in the accounting policies (see note 1).
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill (see note 10).
As part of a review of the fixed assets register, certain items of property, plant and equipment were transferred to intangible
assets.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 122
12 Property, plant and equipment
Capital work Leasehold Shafts and Other plant
in progress short term underground Metallurgical Infrastructure and equipment Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Cost or deemed cost:
At 1 October 2009 274 1 1,424 583 406 99 2,787 
Additions 262 – 18 2 9 2 293 
Transfers (139) – (12) 53 117 (18) 1 
Disposals – – (1) – (4) – (5)
At 30 September 2010 397 1 1,429 638 528 83 3,076 
Depreciation:
At 1 October 2009 – – 383 175 175 18 751 
Charge for the year – – 43 30 31 4 108 
Impairment charge – – – 10 2 – 12 
Transfers – – 6 (3) 3 – 6 
At 30 September 2010 – – 432 212 211 22 877 
Net book value: 
At 30 September 2010 397 1 997 426 317 61 2,199 
At 30 September 2009 274 1 1,041 408 231 81 2,036 
Capital work Leasehold Shafts and Other plant
in progress short term underground Metallurgical Infrastructure and equipment Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Cost or deemed cost:
At 1 October 2008 382 1 1,184 536 371 93 2,567 
Additions 187 – 15 16 11 – 229 
Transfers (295) – 229 35 24 7 – 
Other – – (4) (4) – (1) (9)
At 30 September 2009 274 1 1,424 583 406 99 2,787 
Depreciation:
At 1 October 2008 – – 350 154 154 16 674 
Charge for the year – – 36 21 21 2 80 
Other – – (3) – – – (3)
At 30 September 2009 – – 383 175 175 18 751 
Net book value:
At 30 September 2009 274 1 1,041 408 231 81 2,036 
At 30 September 2008 382 1 834 382 217 77 1,893 
Interest capitalised during 2010 amounted to $28 million (2009 – $7 million). In accordance with the Group accounting policies
no depreciation has been provided on surface mining land having a book value of $13 million (2009 – $13 million).
During the year the Group undertook a review of the classification of assets within its fixed assets register and this resulted
in the transfer of assets between categories, including intangible assets, in addition to the normal transfers from capital work in
progress.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 123
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
13 Equity accounted investments
The Group owns 23.56% of its associate, Incwala Resources (Pty) Limited which is incorporated in South Africa. The functional
currency of Incwala Resources (Pty) Limited is the South African Rand. As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or
losses on the net assets of the company are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group also owns 42.5% of the Pandora joint venture whose operations are in South Africa. The Group equity
accounts for the joint venture as a jointly controlled entity. The functional currency of the Pandora joint venture is the South
African Rand. As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the entity are recognised in the
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
2010 2009
Group Group
share of share of 
net assets Goodwill Total net assets Goodwill Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Net book value at 1 October 153 6 159 157 6 163 
Share of profit 8 – 8 1 – 1 
Distribution of profits (1) – (1) (16) – (16)
Capital contributions 3 – 3 5 – 5 
Foreign exchange 3 – 3 6 – 6 
Net book value at 30 September 166 6 172 153 6 159 
Our share of the net assets of equity accounted investments comprises the following:
2010 2009
Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets 145 33 178 142 18 160 
Current assets 5 38 43 4 36 40 
Current liabilities (3) (24) (27) (5) (9) (14)
Non-current liabilities (28) – (28) (27) (6) (33)
Net assets 119 47 166 114 39 153 
Amounts recognised by the Group in respect of the equity accounted investments comprise:
2010 2009
Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Share of net assets 119 47 166 114 39 153 
Goodwill 6 – 6 6 – 6 
125 47 172 120 39 159 
Our share of the profit / (loss) of equity accounted investments comprises the following:
2010 2009
Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue / income 5 19 24 4 21 25 
Expenses including taxation (2) (14) (16) (2) (22) (24)
Profit / (loss) 3 5 8 2 (1) 1 
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 124
14 Other financial assets
Available HDSA HDSA
for sale receivable derivative Total
$m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2009 68 25 – 93 
Additions – 273 12 285 
Interest accrued – 9 – 9 
Movement in fair value (6) – 12 6 
Exchange differences – 11 – 11 
At 30 September 2010 62 318 24 404 
Available HDSA HDSA
for sale receivable derivative Total
$m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2008 96 19 – 115 
Movement in fair value 9 3 – 12 
Impairment loss (39) – – (39)
Exchange differences 2 3 – 5 
At 30 September 2009 68 25 – 93 
Listed investments within available for sale financial assets are held at fair value using the market price.
2010 2009 
$m $m 
Listed investments 50 55 
Listed investments include a 4% shareholding in Platmin Limited (2009 – 5%) which was listed on the Alternative Investment
Market on 10 August 2006.
Available for sale financial assets includes $12 million (2009 – $13 million) of restricted cash deposits in respect of
rehabilitation obligations.
Details of the change in HDSA receivables and the HDSA derivative during the year can be found in notes 28 and 22g
respectively.
15 Employee benefits 
The Group operates defined contribution schemes in the UK and South Africa. There were no accrued obligations under
defined contribution plans at 30 September 2010 and 2009.
The total pension cost for the Group was $42 million (2009 – $33 million), $41 million of which related to overseas
schemes (2009 – $32 million).
Liabilities in respect of employee benefit share schemes
The Group runs a number of employee benefit share scheme plans. The balances held on the balance sheet as employee
benefits at the year end were as follows:
2010 2009
$m $m
Liabilities in respect of cash settled share schemes – (10)
Social security on share options – (1)
– (11)
During the year the Directors took the policy decision that all award schemes will be satisfied by equity shares for the
foreseeable future. As a result the balance on the liability for own shares relating to previously cash settled schemes was
transferred to the reserve for own shares.
The fair values of the cash settled awards were remeasured at the date of conversion to equity settled awards. This
remeasurement had no incremental impact on the current year results.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 125
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
16 Inventories
2010 2009
$m $m
Consumables 50 36 
Work in progress 327 230 
Finished goods 19 5 
396 271 
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $1,114 million (2009 – $994 million).
17 Trade and other receivables
2010 2009
$m $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables 316 173 
Other receivables 77 99 
Prepayments and accrued income
i
21 15 
414 287 
Footnote:
i Prepayments include $nil of unamortised bank fees relating to undrawn facilities (2009 – $12 million). In 2010 unamortised bank fees of $10 million
have been offset against related drawn facilities. 
18 Assets held for sale
2010 2009
$m $m
At 1 October 6 6 
Transfer to property, plant and equipment (6) – 
At 30 September – 6 
Assets held for sale represented houses the Group was intending to sell to employees, within twelve months of the balance
sheet date, to encourage home ownership. As progress on disposing of these assets is not to the schedule originally intended
it is now considered these assets will not be disposed of within twelve months and therefore these assets have been
transferred to property, plant and equipment.
19 Trade and other payables
2010 2009
$m $m
Trade payables 166 170 
Accruals and other payables 205 164 
Indirect taxation and social security 10 3 
381 337 
20 Interest bearing loans and borrowings
2010 2009
$m $m
Short-term loans:
Bank loans – unsecured 66 58 
Long-term loans:
Bank loans – unsecured 457 349 
523 407 
The maturity profile of interest bearing loans and borrowings is disclosed in note 22c.
In 2009 unamortised bank fees of $12 million were shown as a prepayment where facilities had not been drawn down and
therefore there was no loan balance to offset against. In 2010 $10 million of unamortised bank fees have been offset against
loans according to the amortisation profile.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 126
21 Current derivative financial instruments
2010 2009
$m $m
Derivative financial instruments (liability) / asset (1) 1 
The Group does not undertake trading activity in financial instruments. Forward sales may be undertaken where the Board
determines that it is in the Group’s interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows as they mitigate exposure to future price
fluctuations. For both 2010 and 2009 such forward sales contracts have only been made to hedge the prices of gold, nickel
and copper and such contracts are typically settled within one year.
22 Financial risk management
For the narrative policies regarding financial risk management refer to the Financial Review.
22a Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was:
2010 2009
$m $m
Non-current assets:
HDSA receivable 318 25 
HDSA derivative asset 24 – 
Other financial assets – rehabilitation deposits 12 13 
Current assets:
Trade receivables 316 173 
Other receivables 77 99 
Derivative financial instruments – 1 
Cash and cash equivalents 148 282 
895 593 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic location was:
2010 2009
$m $m
The Americas 5 2 
Asia 5 5 
Europe 246 157 
South Africa 60 9 
316 173 
The HDSA receivable and derivative asset are a South African credit risk.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 127
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
22 Financial risk management (continued)
22b Credit risk
Consideration of the credit risk of receivables is provided in the credit risk section of the Financial Review.
Trade receivables
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows:
2010 2009
Gross Provision Net Gross Provision Net
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Not past due 316 – 316 173 – 173 
The movement in the provision in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2010 2009
$m $m
Opening balance at 1 October – 10 
Provision utilised – (5)
Reversal of previous provision – (5)
Closing balance at 30 September – – 
Other financial assets
The HDSA receivable of $318 million (2009 – $25 million) is not past due and has no provision against it.
In respect of the credit risk of the HDSA derivative asset of $24 million see note 22g (2009 – $nil).
22c Liquidity risk – Maturity of financial liabilities
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact 
of netting agreements:
Carrying Contractual < 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 > 5
amount cash flows year years years years
30 September 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans 533 (606) (107) (391) (108) – 
Trade and other payables 381 (381) (381) – – – 
Current derivative financial instruments 1 (1) (1) – – – 
Carrying Contractual < 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 > 5
amount cash flows year years years years
30 September 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans 407 (443) (78) (260) (105) – 
Trade and other payables 337 (337) (337) – – – 
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 128
22 Financial risk management (continued)
22d Currency exposures
Lonmin’s operations are based predominantly in South Africa with the majority of income arising in US Dollars. Cash held
in South Africa is generally denominated in US Dollars. When short-term working capital facilities are required in South
Africa these are denominated in US Dollars or South African Rand as appropriate.
The table below shows the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other
than the US Dollar. Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of such assets and liabilities are recognised in the
income statement.
2010 2009
SA Rand Sterling Other Total SA Rand Sterling Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets:
Available for sale 
financial assets 12 – 50 62 13 – 55 68 
HDSA receivable – 318 – 318 25 – – 25 
HDSA derivative – 24 – 24 – – – – 
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables 104 – – 104 104 – – 104 
Cash and cash equivalents 49 1 – 50 62 33 – 95 
Tax recoverable – – – – 1 – – 1 
Current liabilities:
Trade and other payables (355) (16) (1) (372) (293) (14) – (307)
Tax payable (6) – – (6) (10) – – (10)
Interest bearing loans 
and borrowings (11) – – (11) (13) – – (13)
Non-current liabilities:
Interest bearing loans 
and borrowings (253) – – (253) (94) – – (94)
(460) 327 49 (84) (205) 19 55 (131)
The principal exchange rates impacting the Group’s results are Rand / Dollar and Sterling / Dollar. Details of average
exchange rates and closing exchange rates can be found in the Operating Statistics.
The Group also carries a $524 million Rand denominated deferred tax liability on the balance sheet which is exposed
to currency risk (2009 – $412 million).
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 129
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
22 Financial risk management (continued)
22e Interest rate risk
Based on contracted maturities the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over future years as shown below:
Weighted average
interest rate in 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
% $m $m $m $m
Liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans
i
5.7 71 343 119 – 
Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates At fixed interest rates
2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Financial assets:
US Dollar 289 168 98 187 – – 
SA Rand 116 143 49 62 – – 
Sterling 24 – 1 33 318 – 
Other 50 55 – – – – 
479 366 148 282 318 – 
Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates At fixed interest rates
2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Financial liabilities:
US Dollar 9 30 270 300 – – 
SA Rand 362 303 263 107 – – 
Sterling 16 14 – – – – 
Other 1 – – – – – 
388 347 533 407 – – 
Footnote:
i Figures are based on facilities outstanding at the balance sheet date.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 130
22 Financial risk management (continued)
22f Fair values
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the 
balance sheet, are as follows:
2010 2009
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
$m $m $m $m
Available for sale financial assets 62 62 68 68 
HDSA receivable 318 323 25 25 
HDSA derivative 24 45 – – 
Trade and other receivables 393 393 272 272 
Cash and cash equivalents 148 148 282 282 
Derivative financial instruments – – 1 1 
Financial assets 945 971 648 648 
Trade and other payables (381) (381) (337) (337)
Unsecured bank loans (533) (533) (407) (407)
Derivative financial instruments (1) (1) – – 
Tax payable (6) (6) (10) (10)
Financial liabilities (921) (921) (754) (754)
Net financial assets / (liabilities) 24 50 (106) (106)
Listed investments within available for sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments are marked to market. 
The residual balances relate to cash deposits held in respect of rehabilitation obligations for which carrying values are 
at fair value.
The HDSA receivable represents loans held at amortised cost (see note 28). 
The HDSA derivative asset is held at fair value subject to limitations under IFRS in recognising day one gains (see
notes 22g and 28).
For cash and cash equivalents the carrying value is equal to fair value.
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables these are typically due within one month and therefore
the carrying amount is fair value.
For unsecured bank loans there is considered to be no material difference between the carrying amount and fair
value. Amounts are shown gross of unamortised bank fees.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 131
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
22 Financial risk management (continued)
22g Fair value hierarchy
The following is an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured at fair value.
They are grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the extent to which the fair value is observable.
The levels are classified as follows:
Level 1 – fair value is based on quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities;
Level 2 – fair value is determined using inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for
the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
Level 3 – fair value is determined on inputs not based on observable market data.
2010
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
$m $m $m $m
Available for sale financial assets 50 – – 50 
HDSA derivative asset – – 24 24 
Current derivative financial instruments – (1) – (1)
50 (1) 24 73 
2009
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
$m $m $m $m
Available for sale financial assets 55 – – 55 
Current derivative financial instruments – 1 – 1 
55 1 – 56 
There were no transfers between level 1 and level 2 during the year ended 30 September 2010.
The derivative financial asset classified at level 3 relates only to arrangements with Shanduka for Lonmin to participate
in equity gains arising from Shaduka’s investment in Incwala (see note 28). The value of the derivative is based on the
equity gain arising on Shanduka’s interest in Incwala and therefore the underlying value of the Platinum operations in
which Incwala has an interest. This is assessed by using a “see-through” valuation method based on the overall value of
Lonmin Plc. Whilst the calculation of value of the derivative instrument therefore includes a Monte Carlo analysis of
Lonmin’s share price, the valuation is also dependant on a number of key management assumptions and must be
classified as level 3 under IFRS 7.
The key management assumptions include an assessment of Lonmin’s share price volatility, the nature of various
liquidity events which can give rise to settlement of the derivative, the likelihood of settlement occurring and the timing of
the settlement event. As at 30 September 2010 a 10% movement in share price will impact the fair value by $5 million, a
10% movement in volatility will effect the fair value by $2 million. The fair value calculated assumes that there is only a
10% chance of the derivative being settled before the instrument becomes due at the end of five years. If settlement were to
occur in year 3, which is considered to be the earliest possible settlement date, the fair value would reduce by $6 million.
IAS 39 does not permit a day one gain to be recognised to the extent that the fair value of the hybrid financial
instrument is derived from unobservable market data. At initial recognition the fair value of the derivative was $33 million,
however, this included day one gains of $21 million which are not permitted to be recognised and therefore
management’s assessment of the unobservable data contributing to the valuation of the asset was adjusted to eliminate
the day one gain.
Subsequent to initial recognition a fair value increase of $12 million occurred in the period to 30 September 2010,
increasing the carrying value of the derivative on the balance sheet to $24 million and the fair value increased to $45 million
as disclosed in note 22f. Subsequent to initial recognition, IAS 39 requires that a gain or loss shall be recognised only to
the extent that it arises from a change in a factor (including time) that market participants would consider in setting a price.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 132
23 Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
2010 2009
Deferred Deferred Net Deferred Deferred Net
tax assets tax liabilities balance tax assets tax liabilities balance
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in respect of: $m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets
i
– (790) (790) – (705) (705)
Provisions 29 – 29 31 – 31 
Cash flow hedges 1 – 1 – – – 
Trading losses 3 – 3 25 – 25 
Share-based payments 6 – 6 6 – 6 
39 (790) (751) 62 (705) (643)
Movement in temporary differences during the year
At 1
Recognised in income 
Recognised in At 30
October Exchange Special comprehensive September
2009 movements items Underlying income 2010
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets
i
(705) (39) 3 (49) – (790)
Provisions 31 2 – (4) – 29 
Cash flow hedges – – – – 1 1 
Trading losses 25 1 2 (25) – 3 
Share-based payments 6 – – – – 6 
(643) (36) 5 (78) 1 (751)
At 1
Recognised in income
Recognised in At 30
October Exchange Special comprehensive September
2008 movements items Underlying income 2009
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets
i
(624) (47) – (34) – (705)
Provisions 31 4 – (4) – 31 
Deferred tax on unrealised gains 
on available for sale financial assets – – (1) – 1 – 
Deferred tax on dividends payable (12) – – 12 – – 
Cash flow hedges (5) – – – 5 – 
Trading losses – – 6 19 – 25 
Share-based payments 6 – – – – 6 
(604) (43) 5 (7) 6 (643)
Footnote:
i Restated for prior period error as disclosed below.
Prior period correction
The 2008 and 2009 deferred tax liabilities in respect of non-current assets have been restated to reflect an additional liability of
$64 million which should have been recorded on transition to IFRS in 2006. The deferred tax liability will unwind over the life of
the non-current assets. The income statement impact in any given year is not material and therefore prior year income
statements have not been restated. There are no cash implications of this adjustment.
Deferred
tax liability Reserves
$m $m
Balance as reported at 1 October 2008 (540) 2,594 
Correction (64) (64)
Restated balance at 1 October 2008 (604) 2,530 
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 133
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
23 Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) (continued)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2010 2009
Unrecognised Unrecognised
deferred tax deferred tax
Temporary assets/ Temporary assets/
differences (liabilities) differences (liabilities)
$m $m $m $m
Capital losses carried forward 613 171 675 189 
Trading and other losses carried forward 200 53 175 49 
Unredeemed capital expenditure 298 83 196 55 
Share-based payments 4 1 4 1 
Unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries (1,400) (140) (1,314) (131)
(285) 168 (264) 163 
The temporary differences above, except for the unremitted profits from overseas subsidiaries, are subject to the local tax rate
in the United Kingdom at 28% (2009 – 28%), South Africa at 28% (2009 – 28%) and Canada at 18% (2009 – 18%). The
unrecognised deferred tax assets generated by the timing difference relating to unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries have
been calculated using the South African secondary tax rate of 10% (2009 – 10%).
At 30 September 2010, the Group had an amount of $111 million (2009 – $113 million) of surplus Advanced Corporation
Tax (ACT) available, subject to certain restrictions, for set-off against future United Kingdom corporation tax liabilities. ‘Shadow
ACT’ amounted to $252 million (2009 – $256 million) and must be set-off prior to the utilisation of surplus ACT.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of the trading and other losses and the capital losses as
management believe the chances of recovery are low.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted foreign profits when it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the
foreseeable future. Generally retained profits arising in South Africa that have arisen in prior years are retained there in order to
fund capital expenditure requirements.
24 Provisions
2010 2009
$m $m
At 1 October 67 50 
Capitalised on non-current assets 2 6 
Utilised in the year (2) – 
Unwinding of discount (note 6) 6 5 
Exchange differences 7 6 
At 30 September 80 67 
Provisions represent site rehabilitation liabilities and generally assume the cash flows occur at the end of the life of the mine.
25 Contingent liabilities
2010 2009
$m $m
Third party guarantees
i
– 5 
Indemnities
ii
25 83 
Preference share capital put options – 23 
Vantage Capital Investments – 20 
25 131 
Footnotes:
i The Group provided third party guarantees in connection with the sale of certain subsidiaries in 1996, 1997 and 1998. Due to the passage of time,
these liabilities are now considered remote.
ii During the course of the year Shanduka Resources (Pty) Limited (Shanduka) became the majority shareholder in Incwala and, as a result, the funding
structure put in place at the time of the original empowerment transaction in 2004 was largely refinanced. Impala Platinum Holdings Limited (Impala)
has rolled R176 million ($25 million) of its vendor financing loans provided to the original Historically Disadvantaged South African (HDSA) investors in
Incwala into the new structure. Lonmin continues to indemnify Impala in respect of this loan which is due for repayment on 30 September 2011. If
called, Lonmin would assume the loan receivable increasing its balance of HDSA receivables which are secured on the shares in Incwala held
through a wholly owned subsidiary of Shanduka. All other contingent liabilities in connection with Incwala have been extinguished.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 134
26 Called up share capital and share premium account
Number $m
Ordinary shares of $1 each:
– Issued and fully paid – 2010 202,292,445 202 
– Issued and fully paid – 2009 193,054,260 193 
Deferred shares of £1 each:
– Issued and fully paid – 2010 and 2009 50,000 – 
Issued and Paid up Share 
fully paid amount premium 
Number $m $m
At 1 October 2009:
Ordinary shares of $1 each 193,054,260 193 776 
The issue of shares pursuant to:
– exercises under the The Lonmin Executive Share Option Scheme 29,210 – 1 
– exercises under the Lonmin Share Option Scheme 8,771 – – 
– exercises under the Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1994 15,955 – – 
– issue of shares to the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust 
(Shareholder Value Incentive Plan and Stay & Prosper Plan) 120,000 – – 
– issue of new shares on equity placing 9,064,249 9 220 
At 30 September 2010:
Ordinary shares of $1 each 202,292,445 202 997 
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s shares can be found in the Directors’ Report (Governance).
27 Share plans
At 30 September 2010, the following options and awards were outstanding:
Weighted 
average Weighted Weighted 
exercise average average 
price of remaining fair value 
Number outstanding contracted of options 
of shares options (pence) life (years) granted (£)
Share Plans
Executive Share Option Scheme
Outstanding at 1 October 2009 200,044 1,022.21 – – 
Granted during the year – – – – 
Exercised during the year (29,210) 400.48 – – 
Lapsed during the year (32,862) 1,028.95 – – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2010 137,972 1,023.04 2.22 – 
Exercisable at the end of the year 137,972 – – – 
Lonmin Share Option Scheme 
Outstanding at 1 October 2009 10,721 1,098.00 – – 
Granted during the year – – – – 
Exercised during the year (8,771) 1,098.00 – – 
Lapsed during the year – – – – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2010 1,950 1,098.00 1.75 – 
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,950 – – – 
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Outstanding at 1 October 2009 17,914 773.39 – – 
Granted during the year – – – – 
Exercised during the year (15,955) 673.00 – – 
Lapsed during the year – – – – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2010 1,959 1,591.00 0.25 – 
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,959 – – – 
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 135
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
27 Share plans (continued)
Weighted 
average Weighted Weighted 
exercise average average 
price of remaining fair value 
Number outstanding contracted of options 
of shares options (pence) life (years) granted (£)
Long Term Incentive Plan
Outstanding at 1 October 2009 644,085 – – – 
Granted during the year 532,385 – – – 
Exercised during the year (3,204) – – – 
Lapsed during the year (96,236) – – – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2010 1,077,030 – 2.32 15.31
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – – 
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
Outstanding at 1 October 2009 87,928 – – – 
Granted during the year – – – – 
Exercised during the year (5,848) – – – 
Lapsed during the year (8,248) – – – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2010 73,832 – 1.04 – 
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – – 
Stay & Prosper Plan
i
Outstanding at 1 October 2009 1,566,574 – – – 
Granted during the year 858,942 – – – 
Exercised during the year (104,770) – – – 
Lapsed during the year (192,159) – – – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2010 2,128,587 – 1.91 15.42 
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – – 
Footnote:
i Awards granted pursuant to the Stay & Prosper Plan may be share settled or cash settled. During the year the Directors took the policy decision that
all award schemes will be satisfied by equity shares for the foreseeable future.
Further information about each of the above plans, including the performance conditions, can be found in the Remuneration
Committee Report.
Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust (the “Trust”)
At 30 September 2010 the Trust held 131,920 shares (beneficially and as bare trustee) (2009 – 53,636 shares). The market
value of these shares at the year end was $3 million. Where not waived, dividends payable on these shares are held by the
Trust on behalf of the participants. Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson are deemed to have a beneficial interest, to the extent of their
Invested and Bonus Shares pursuant to the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (included in the table of Directors’ share interests),
and a non-beneficial interest in the balance.
Details of options granted during the year
The fair value of both equity settled and cash settled options granted in the year have been measured using the weighted
average inputs below and the following valuation models:
SAYE Black-Scholes
LTIP Monte Carlo
DABP Monte Carlo
Stay & Prosper Monte Carlo
Scarce Skills Black-Scholes
2010 2009
Range of share price at date of grant (£) 16.32 – 20.27 6.79 – 17.32
Exercise price (£) – – 
Expected option life (years) 3 3
Volatility 75% 60 – 73%
Dividend yield n/a 4.4%
Risk free interest rate 0.8% 1.1 – 2.4%
Volatility was calculated with reference to the Group’s historic share price volatility up to the grant date. The number of years of
historic data used is equal to the term of each option. 
During the year the Directors took the decision to settle all award schemes with equity shares. As a result the balance on
the liability for own shares relating to previously cash settled schemes was transferred to the reserve for own shares. 
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 136
28 HDSA financing
Lonmin fulfils its Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) ownership requirements through its relationship with its BEE partner,
Incwala Resources (Pty) Ltd (Incwala). Incwala holds all of the non-controlling interests in Lonmin’s principal subsidiaries.
At 1 October 2009 Lonmin was owed $25 million vendor financing from the original HDSA investors in Incwala. In the year
a further $59 million was paid in respect of guarantees on behalf of the original HDSA investors, as disclosed in the 2010
interim financial statements, in exchange for additional HDSA receivables of this value.
On 8 July 2010, Lonmin entered into an agreement to provide financing for Shanduka’s acquisition, at fair value, of 50.03%
of shares in Incwala from the original HDSA shareholders. Lonmin advanced a loan (“HDSA receivable”) of $304 million (or
£200 million) denominated in Sterling which included the roll-forward of receivables from the original HDSA investors and
accrued interest.
The terms of the financing provided by Lonmin to Shanduka include the accrual of interest on the HDSA receivable at
market rates based on a principal value of £200 million ($304 million) which is repayable after 5 years including accrued
interest, or earlier at Shanduka’s discretion, and a mechanism for returning additional value to Lonmin’s shareholders in the
event of Shanduka realising value through its investment in Lonmin. In presenting these financial statements, the Directors
specifically reviewed the balance of risk and reward accruing to each of Lonmin and Shanduka as a result of this mechanism.
These financing arrangements constitute, for accounting purposes under IAS 39, a hybrid financial instrument.
As permitted under IAS 39, the Directors have determined that it is appropriate to account for this financial instrument by
splitting it into two components – the HDSA receivable being an amortised cost asset and a financial derivative. The Directors
have commissioned an independent valuation of the hybrid instrument and its components to arrive at the appropriate figures
for fair value on initial recognition and subsequently for the derivative at 30 September 2010 (see note 22g).
29 Rights Issue in prior year
On 11 May 2009, Lonmin Plc announced a fully underwritten 2 for 9 Rights Issue of 35.1 million new ordinary shares at £9.00
per new share for shareholders on the London Stock Exchange and at R113.04 per new share for shareholders on the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange. The offer period commenced on 15 May 2009 and closed for acceptance on 4 June 2009.
The issue was successful and raised as planned net proceeds of $458 million.
The transaction comprised cash proceeds of $516 million received at spot rates and deductions of a $33 million special
loss on settlement of forward exchange contracts used to cover the net Sterling amounts expected, $21 million costs of issue
charged to share premium and $4 million of special foreign exchange losses on retranslation of advance cash proceeds.
Lonmin Plc raised equity from the issue in both Sterling and Rand. The functional currency of the Company is US Dollar.
This resulted in a variable amount of cash being raised. IAS 32 – Financial Instruments: Presentation, as adopted by the EU at
the time of publication, required the recognition of a derivative liability of $307 million. The fair value of this liability increased by
$36 million to the point of exercise due to variations in foreign exchange rates and share price. This loss was charged to
finance expenses in the income statement as a special item. On the exercise of the rights the derivative liability was
extinguished and the cumulative $343 million liability was reversed to retained earnings creating a net gain of $36 million in
reserves, resulting in a net $nil effect on retained earnings.
The IASB issued an amendment to IAS 32 which was adopted by the EU subsequent to the signing of the 2009 year end
accounts. Under this amendment no derivative liability and associated fair value remeasurements would have been recognised.
Since the net effect on retained earnings is $nil the Directors have decided not to adopt the amendment early and so not to
restate the 2009 comparative figures.
For a more detailed explanation of the Rights Issue transaction see note 29 in the 2009 year end financial statements.
30 Related party transactions
The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors and key management (as disclosed in the Remuneration Report
and in note 5) and its equity accounted investments (note 13).
The Group’s related party transactions are summarised below:
2010 2009
$m $m
Purchases from joint venture – Pandora 42 39 
Amounts due from joint venture – Pandora 1 15 
Amounts due from associate – Incwala 2 2 
Subscription paid to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association
i
12 12
Purchases made from Xstrata
ii
2 – 
Sales to Xstrata
ii
5 – 
Amounts due to Xstrata
ii
2 – 
Amounts due from Xstrata
ii
4 – 
Amounts due from HDSA investors in Incwala (note 28) 342 25 
All related party transactions are priced on an arm’s length basis.
Footnotes:
i The subscription paid by Lonmin is material to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association of which Lonmin is a member.
ii Xstrata Zinc BV has a 24.9% shareholding in Lonmin Plc.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 137
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
31 Capital commitments
2010 2009
$m $m
Contracted for but not yet provided 101 47 
32 Operating and finance leases
The full aggregate lease payments of the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are set out below:
Land and buildings
2010 2009
$m $m
Operating leases which fall due for payment:
Within one year 1 1 
Between one and five years – 1 
1 2 
33 Net debt as defined by the Group
Foreign 
As at exchange As at
1 October and non cash 30 September
2009 Cash flow movements 2010
$m $m $m $m
Cash and cash equivalents 282 (135) 1 148 
Current borrowings (58) (13) – (71)
Non-current borrowings (349) (113) – (462)
Unamortised bank fees 12 – (2) 10 
Net debt as defined by the Group (113) (261) (1) (375)
Foreign 
As at exchange As at
1 October and non cash 30 September
2008 Cash flow movements 2009
$m $m $m $m
Cash and cash equivalents 226 83 (27) 282 
Current borrowings – (58) – (58)
Non-current borrowings (529) 180 – (349)
Unamortised bank fees – – 12 12 
Net debt as defined by the Group (303) 205 (15) (113)
Net debt as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest
bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees.
34 Principal Group companies
The following companies have been consolidated in the Group accounts and materially contributed to the assets and / or
results of the Group and are classified according to their main activity.
Interest in
ordinary
Country of share capital
Company incorporation % Principal activities
Eastern Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining
Western Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining and refining
Messina Platinum Mines Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining
Akanani Mining (Pty) Ltd South Africa 74.0 Subsidiary Mineral exploration and evaluation
A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 138
LONMIN PLC COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
as at 30 September
2010 2009
Note $m $m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 36 2 1 
Investments: 1,745 1,434 
Shares in subsidiary undertakings 37 1,400 1,406 
Other financial assets 38 345 28 
Fixed assets 1,747 1,435 
Current assets
Deferred tax assets 39 1 5 
Debtors 40 694 550 
Cash at bank and in hand 10 164 
Current assets 705 719 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 41 (706) (698)
Net current (liabilities) / assets (1) 21 
Total assets less current liabilities 1,746 1,456 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 41 (7) (6)
Bank loans and overdrafts (7) – 
Other creditors – (6)
Net assets 1,739 1,450 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 42 202 193 
Share premium account 42 997 776 
Capital redemption reserve 42 88 88 
Profit and loss account 42 452 393 
Total equity shareholders’ funds 42 1,739 1,450 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 November 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roger Phillimore Chairman
Alan Ferguson Chief Financial Officer 139
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS
35 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Lonmin Plc (the Company) balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom
generally accepted accounting practice (UK GAAP) and in accordance with UK company law. The financial information has
been prepared on a historic cost basis as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments. The accounts have been
prepared on a going concern basis, as detailed in note 1 of the Group financial statements. The following principal accounting
policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company’s
financial statements. 
The Company’s functional currency is the US Dollar. The reporting currency is also the US Dollar.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in Section 408 (4) of the Companies Act 2006 from
presenting its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 1 – Cash Flow Statements and has not prepared a cash
flow statement.
Fixed asset investments
The Company’s investment in Platmin Limited is measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity
except when market value has fallen below original cost, when impairment losses are taken to the income statement. Fair
value is determined by using the market price at the balance sheet date when this is available. For fixed asset investments for
which market price is not available the Directors’ best estimate of market value is used.
Investment in subsidiaries
The Company’s investment in shares in Group companies are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
The principal subsidiaries of the Company are LSA (UK) Limited and AfriOre Limited. LSA (UK) Limited holds the
investments in Western Platinum Limited, Eastern Platinum Limited and Messina Platinum Mines Limited. AfriOre Limited holds
the investment in Akanani (Pty) Limited. For more information see note 34 of the Group financial statements.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are recorded at cost or valuation, which are not updated under the transitional arrangements of FRS 15 –
Tangible Fixed Assets, less depreciation. Depreciation on fixed assets is provided on a straight-line basis. Assets are
depreciated over their estimated useful economic lives to residual value. Depreciation rates for the principal assets of the
Company are as follows:
Method Useful economic life Rate
Short-term leasehold property Straight line Over the life of the lease 10 years
Fixtures and Fittings Straight line 10% – 33% per annum 3 – 10 years
Tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may
not be recoverable. When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net
present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant income generating unit or disposal value if higher in accordance
with FRS 11.
Financial instruments
The Company’s principal financial instruments (other than derivatives) comprise bank loans, investments, cash and short-term
deposits.
Bank loans were initially recorded at fair value, and have subsequently been recorded at amortised cost using the effective
interest rate method.
HDSA receivable and HDSA derivative
The Company is the holder of a hybrid financial instrument with Shanduka. This comprises a HDSA receivable recognised
initially at fair value, and subsequently recorded at amortised cost, and a HDSA derivative which is held at fair value excluding
day one gain.
Accounting for the financing provided by the Company for Shanduka’s acquisition of the non-controlling interests in the
Company’s principal subsidiaries is considered in detail in note 28 of the Group accounts, and further in note 22g of the Group
accounts.
Leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Current tax
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes account of the taxation deferred because of timing
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is provided for on timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date on a non-
discounted basis. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable
taxable profits from which future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.  140
35 Accounting policies (continued)
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits
For current employees, the Company either makes payments on behalf of employees into a defined contribution scheme
which the Company has set up, or makes direct payments to employees who may then make their own arrangements.
A defined contribution scheme is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into
a separate legal entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined
contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
The Company previously operated a defined benefit scheme which was settled during 2008.
Share-based payments
Equity settled schemes
From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares. 
Cash settled schemes
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is
recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become
unconditionally entitled to payment. The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date. Any changes in
the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
During the year the Directors took the policy decision that all award schemes will be satisfied by equity shares for the
foreseeable future. As a result the balance on the liability for own shares relating to previously cash settled schemes was
transferred to the reserve for own shares.
Basis of fair value
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a
Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award. Market related performance conditions are reflected in the
fair value of the share. Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the
number of awards expected to vest; the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market
conditions are met.
Share options and own shares held
In accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 25 – National Insurance Contributions on Share Option Gains (UITF 25),
the Company provides in full for the employer’s national insurance liability estimated to arise on the future exercise of share
options granted.
As required under Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 38 – Accounting for ESOP Trusts (UITF 38), the cost to the Company
of own shares held is shown as a deduction from shareholders’ funds within the profit and loss account. Consideration paid or
received for the purchase or sale of the Company’s own shares in the ESOP trust is shown separately in the reconciliation of
movements in shareholders’ funds.
Dividend reinvestment program
Under the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan, shareholders can elect for the whole of their cash dividends to be
reinvested in Lonmin Plc shares which are purchased on their behalf in the market. All cash dividends are paid to the
Registrars who use the dividends of participants in the plan to fund these purchases. Accordingly, no new shares are issued,
dividends are paid and accounted for in the normal way, and there are no special accounting requirements for the programme.
Foreign currency
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of the Company using the exchange
rates prevailing at the dates of transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated
into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are
translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising
on the retranslation of available for sale financial assets which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
All exploration expenses relate to pre-feasibility work and, in line with Group policy, are expensed as incurred.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS 141
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
36 Tangible fixed assets
Fixtures and
fittings
$m
Cost:
At 1 October 2009 3
Additions 1
At 30 September 2010 4
Depreciation: 
At 1 October 2009 2
Additions –
At 30 September 2010 2
Net book value: 
At 30 September 2010 2
At 1 October 2009 1
37 Investments in subsidiary undertakings
$m
Cost:
At 1 October 2009 1,528 
Additions 10 
At 30 September 2010 1,538 
Provisions:
At 1 October 2009 122 
Increase 16 
At 30 September 2010 138 
Net book value: 
At 30 September 2010 1,400 
At 1 October 2009 1,406 
$m
Cost:
At 1 October 2008 1,528 
Additions – 
At 30 September 2009 1,528 
Provisions:
At 1 October 2008 101 
Increase 21 
At 30 September 2009 122 
Net book value:
At 30 September 2009 1,406 
At 1 October 2008 1,427 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS 142
38 Other financial assets
Available HDSA HDSA
for sale receivable derivative Total
$m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2009 3 25 – 28 
Additions – 273 12 285 
Interest accrued – 9 – 9 
Movement in fair value – – 12 12 
Exchange differences – 11 – 11 
At 30 September 2010 3 318 24 345 
Available HDSA HDSA 
for sale receivable derivative Total
$m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2008 6 19 – 25 
Movement in fair value 2 3 – 5 
Impairment (5) – – (5)
Exchange differences – 3 – 3 
At 30 September 2009 3 25 – 28 
For details of the HDSA receivable, and the HDSA derivative asset, refer to notes 22g and 28 of the Group accounts.
2010 2009
$m $m
Listed investments 3 3 
The listed investment is in Platmin Limited which was listed on the Alternative Investment Market on 10 August 2006.
39 Deferred tax assets
2010 2009
$m $m
Amounts falling due after one year:
Deferred tax assets 1 5 
1 5 
40 Debtors
2010 2009
$m $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary companies 693 536 
Tax recoverable – 1 
Prepayments and accrued income 1 13 
694 550 
Prepayments include $nil of unamortised bank fees relating to undrawn facilities (2009 – $12 million).
This year the unamortised bank fees have been netted off against drawn borrowings.
41 Creditors
2010 2009
$m $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts due to subsidiary companies 681 678 
Other creditors 5 4 
Accruals and deferred income 20 16 
706 698 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS 143
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
41 Creditors (continued)
2010 2009
$m $m
Other creditors falling due after more than one year – 6 
Unsecured bank loans falling due within 2 to 3 years 7 – 
7 6 
Details of the loans are shown in note 20 of the Group accounts.
42 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
Called Share Capital 
up share premium redemption Profit and 
capital account reserve loss account Total
$m $m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2009 193 776 88 393 1,450 
Profit for the year – – – 41 41 
Share-based payments – – – 5 5 
Transfer from liability for own shares
v
– – – 15 15 
Share capital and share premium recognised 
on equity issuance
vi
9 224 – – 233 
Equity issue costs charged to share premium
vi
– (4) – – (4)
Reversal of fair value movements on derivative 
liability recognised on equity issuance
vi
– – – (2) (2)
Shares issued on exercise of share options
iii
– 1 – – 1 
At 30 September 2010 202 997 88 452 1,739 
Called Share Capital
up share premium redemption Profit and
capital account reserve loss account Total
$m $m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2008 156 305 88 358 907 
Loss for the year – – – (9) (9)
Change in fair value of available for sale financial assets – – – 2 2 
Share-based payments – – – 2 2 
Share capital and share premium recognised 
on equity issuance
ii
35 477 – – 512 
Equity issue costs charged to share premium
ii
– (21) – – (21)
Exchange gain on shares to be issued
ii
– – – 4 4 
Reversal of fair value movements on derivative
liability recognised on equity issuance
ii
– – – 36 36 
Shares issued on exercise of share options
iii
1 – – – 1 
Shares issued under the IFC option agreement
iv
1 15 – – 16 
At 30 September 2009 193 776 88 393 1,450 
The profit of the Company for the 2010 financial year amounted to $41 million (2009 – loss of $9 million).
Further details of called up share capital and share premium can be found in note 26 of the Group accounts.
Details of shares held in the employee share ownership plan (ESOP) can be found in note 27 of the Group accounts.
Footnotes:
i The profit and loss account includes $11 million of accumulated debits in respect of fair value movements on available for sale financial assets (2009
– $11 million accumulated debits).
ii During the prior year the Company undertook a Rights issue in which 35,072,129 shares were issued. Further details can be found in note 29 of the
Group Accounts.
iii During the year 173,936 share options were exercised (2009 – 426,315) on which $1 million of cash was received (2009 – $1 million).
iv In the prior year 1,172,583 shares were issued under the International Finance Corporation option agreement. As the shares were issued at a
discount only $15 million of cash was received.
v During the year the Directors took the policy decision that all award schemes will be satisfied by equity shares for the foreseeable future. As a result
the balance on the liability for own shares relating to previously cash settled schemes was transferred to the reserve for own shares.
vi During the year the Company completed an equity placing of 9,064,249 shares for net proceeds of $229 million. As disclosed in note 3 of the Group
accounts, under IAS 32 this resulted in the recognition of the transaction as a derivative liability with fair value movements taken through the income
statement until settlement. On settlement movements in fair value were reversed through equity.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS 144
43 Other information
Employees
The average number of employees of the Company during the year was 40 (2009 – 31) which includes 12 employees who
work in the South Africa branch. Total staff costs, excluding charges for share options, were $18 million (2009 – $11 million)
which includes $3 million for employees working in the South Africa branch.
The staff costs are made up of wages and salaries $11 million (2009 – $7 million), social security costs $2 million 
(2009 – $1 million), pension payments $1 million (2009 – $1 million), and termination payments $4 million (2009 – $2 million).
Directors’ emoluments are reported in the Remuneration Committee Report. No emoluments related specifically to their
work in the Company.
Pensions
For details of the Company’s pension scheme, refer to note 15 of the Group accounts.
Related party transactions
The Company’s only related party transaction has resulted in an amount due from HDSA investors in Incwala of $342 million
(2009 – $25 million) as per note 38 of the Company accounts. For further details refer to note 28 of the Group accounts. This
transaction has been priced on an arm’s length basis.
The Company also has a related party relationship with its directors and key management as disclosed in the
Remuneration Committee Report.
Dividends
Refer to note 9 of the Group accounts.
Share-based payments
For details of the Company’s share plan and share option schemes, refer to note 27 of the Group accounts.
Deferred tax asset
The Company had a deferred tax asset of $1 million (2009 – $5 million) relating to the South Africa branch, from which
management believes that there will be sufficient future taxable profits to justify carrying the asset.
Unrecognised tax balances
The Company had an unrecognised deferred tax asset of $66 million at 30 September 2010 based on timing differences of
$237 million (2009 – $68 million based on timing differences of $243 million). No unrecognised deferred tax assets have been
disclosed in respect of United Kingdom operations, as management believe the chances of utilising future United Kingdom
taxable profits are low.
The Company had $65 million of unrecognised surplus ACT at 30 September 2010 (2009 – $67 million). The Company 
had $252 million of unrecognised shadow ACT at 30 September 2010 (2009 – $256 million).
Contingent liabilities
Details of the contingent liabilities of the parent company are included in note 25 of the Group accounts.
Audit fee
The audit fee in respect of the parent company was $0.2 million (2009 – $0.2 million). Further details can be found in note 4
of the Group accounts.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS 145
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
CONSOLIDATED GROUP FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL RECORD
for the year ended 30 September
Continuing operations 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Consolidated income statement:
Revenue $m 1,585 1,062 2,231 1,941 1,855 
Operating profit / (loss)
ii
$m 203 (142) 764 794 842 
Underlying operating profit / (loss)
ii
$m 228 (93) 963 796 830 
Profit / (loss) before taxation $m 240 (272) 779 705 633 
Underlying profit / (loss) before taxation $m 237 (111) 997 811 827 
Attributable profit / (loss) for the year $m 112 (285) 455 314 313 
Underlying attributable profit / (loss) for the year $m 138 (103) 550 453 445 
Basic earnings / (loss) per share cents 56.9 (163.7) 277.8 195.7 209.5 
Underlying earnings / (loss) per share cents 70.2 (59.2) 335.8 282.4 297.8 
Consolidated statement of financial position:
Non-current assets – property, plant and equipment $m 2,199 2,036 1,893 1,673 1,463 
Non-current assets – other $m 1,667 1,329 1,340 1,501 677 
Net current assets $m 504 443 501 200 279 
Net debt $m (375) (113) (303) (375) (458)
Equity shareholders’ funds (restated)
i
$m 2,709 2,356 2,086 1,907 1,028 
Equity shareholders’ funds per share
i
cents 1,339 1,220 1,273 1,165 686 
Cost of dividend paid $m – – 186 171 124 
Dividends per share paid cents – – 113.6 105.0 83.0 
Dividend in respect of the year per share cents 15.0 – 56.3 109.7 95.4 
Consolidated statement of cash flows:
Cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities $m 80 (16) 706 692 506 
Free cash (outflow) / inflow $m (203) (271) 264 380 290 
Trading cash inflow / (outflow) per share cents 40.7 (9.2) 431.0 431.3 338.7 
Free cash (outflow) / inflow per share cents (103.2) (155.6) 161.2 236.8 194.1 
Footnotes:
i Equity shareholders’ funds and equity shareholders’ funds per share (cents) have been restated for 2006 to 2009 as disclosed in note 23. 
ii Excludes equity accounted investments. 146
OPERATING STATISTICS
5 year review
Units 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Tonnes mined Marikana Karee
1
kt 4,115 3,950 3,962 4,609 4,662 
Westerns
1
kt 3,694 3,912 4,343 4,931 5,503 
Middelkraal
1
kt 1,918 1,385 884 461 63 
Easterns
1
kt 1,082 935 1,036 1,212 1,256 
Underground kt 10,809 10,182 10,226 11,212 11,484 
Opencast kt 329 234 1,300 1,597 1,583 
Limpopo Underground kt – 87 523 757 870 
Pandora attributable
2
Underground kt 166 142 124 128 100 
Opencast kt – 156 275 286 176 
Lonmin Platinum Underground kt 10,975 10,411 10,875 12,096 12,454
Opencast kt 329 389 1,575 1,883 1,759 
Total kt 11,304 10,801 12,449 13,979 14,213 
% tonnes mined from UG2 reef % 75.6 77.7 73.1 72.0 71.2 
Tonnes milled
3
Marikana Underground kt 10,655 10,148 10,206 11,216 11,502 
Opencast kt 129 622 1,163 1,469 1,854 
Limpopo Underground kt – 92 534 781 901 
Pandora
4
Underground kt 391 335 293 301 236 
Opencast kt – 430 595 649 394 
Ore Purchases
5
Underground kt – – – 75 14 
Opencast kt – – 30 20 18 
Lonmin Platinum Underground kt 11,046 10,576 11,033 12,373 12,653 
Opencast kt 129 1,053 1,788 2,138 2,266 
Total kt 11,176 11,628 12,821 14,511 14,919 
Lonmin Platinum Underground g/t 4.67 4.57 4.66 4.88 4.94 
– head grade
6
Opencast g/t 2.25 3.70 3.70 4.39 4.36 
Total g/t 4.65 4.50 4.52 4.80 4.85 
Lonmin Platinum Underground % 84.8 81.0 81.7 80.7 84.0 
– recovery rate
7
Opencast % 63.8 65.1 59.4 55.4 60.9 
Total % 84.7 79.8 79.2 77.3 80.8 
Metals in Marikana Platinum oz 668,620 612,910 660,429 778,049 881,068 
concentrate
8
Palladium oz 313,590 284,561 303,530 354,037 395,180 
Gold oz 14,969 14,419 17,221 21,578 28,284 
Rhodium oz 93,043 85,008 90,096 102,906 113,411 
Ruthenium oz 144,913 130,080 139,158 164,826 182,078 
Iridium oz 31,432 28,389 29,654 37,317 37,676 
Total PGMs oz 1,266,566 1,155,367 1,240,088 1,458,713 1,637,697 
Limpopo Platinum oz – 3,770 22,017 35,567 48,640 
Palladium oz – 3,331 16,477 24,351 36,834 
Gold oz – 243 1,265 2,945 3,355 
Rhodium oz – 487 2,660 3,723 6,904 
Ruthenium oz – 688 4,128 5,769 8,704 
Iridium oz – 159 121 1,245 1,973 
Total PGMs oz – 8,679 46,667 73,600 106,410 
Pandora Platinum oz 25,756 46,421 48,743 52,479 34,125 
Palladium oz 12,108 20,866 21,282 24,417 15,463 
Gold oz 176 350 371 461 302 
Rhodium oz 4,036 6,425 6,334 7,439 4,949 
Ruthenium oz 6,228 9,338 9,379 10,922 7,507 
Iridium oz 1,041 1,767 1,762 2,415 1,595 
Total PGMs oz 49,345 85,168 87,872 98,133 63,941 
Ore Purchases
5
Platinum oz – – 937 3,737 1,125 
Palladium oz – – 793 1,730 417 
Gold oz – – 74 46 32 
Rhodium oz – – 83 533 115 
Ruthenium oz – – 107 809 202 
Iridium oz – – 25 180 40 
Total PGMs oz – – 2,019 7,035 1,931 
Lonmin Platinum Platinum oz 694,376 663,101 732,125 869,832 964,958 
Palladium oz 325,697 308,758 342,081 404,535 447,894 
Gold oz 15,144 15,013 18,932 25,030 31,973 
Rhodium oz 97,079 91,920 99,173 114,601 125,379 
Ruthenium oz 151,141 140,106 152,772 182,326 198,491 
Iridium oz 32,473 30,315 31,562 41,157 41,284 
Total PGMs oz 1,315,911 1,249,214 1,376,645 1,637,481 1,809,979 
Nickel
9
MT 2,972 2,794 3,549 4,636 5,120 
Copper
9
MT 1,824 1,763 2,216 2,814 3,104  147
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Units 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Refined production Lonmin refined Platinum oz 607,794 655,291 699,942 695,842 799,070
metal production
10
Palladium oz 303,748 297,415 330,209 318,758 369,859
Gold oz 15,284 18,277 20,257 20,485 20,955 
Rhodium oz 94,690 95,596 91,063 88,469 115,453
Ruthenium oz 147,854 146,506 158,424 135,873 174,639 
Iridium oz 36,073 23,908 31,599 30,430 40,836 
Total PGMs oz 1,205,443 1,236,992 1,331,493 1,289,857 1,520,812
Toll refined metal Platinum oz 77,571 2,025 – 93,609 – 
production Palladium oz 15,274 941 – 43,274 – 
Gold oz 1,100 58 – – – 
Rhodium oz 5,411 1,532 – 12,966 – 
Ruthenium oz 8,278 2,647 – 20,439 – 
Iridium oz 1,695 513 – 4,090 – 
Total PGMs oz 109,328 7,717 – 174,378 – 
Total refined PGMs Platinum oz 685,365 657,317 699,942 789,451 799,070
Palladium oz 319,022 298,356 330,209 362,032 369,859
Gold oz 16,383 18,335 20,257 20,485 20,955 
Rhodium oz 100,100 97,128 91,063 101,435 115,453
Ruthenium oz 156,133 149,153 158,424 156,312 174,639 
Iridium oz 37,768 24,420 31,599 34,520 40,836 
Total PGMs oz 1,314,772 1,244,709 1,331,493 1,464,235 1,520,812
Base metals Nickel
11
MT 3,475 3,244 3,483 4,522 4,342
Copper
11
MT 2,091 1,988 2,009 2,466 2,452
Sales Refined metal sales
10
Platinum oz 681,424 659,703 706,492 786,552 803,471 
Palladium oz 315,515 305,332 329,460 362,077 373,303 
Gold oz 16,289 18,910 20,151 24,449 22,133 
Rhodium oz 98,657 94,160 93,337 102,916 116,281 
Ruthenium oz 153,865 146,009 158,477 162,853 179,557 
Iridium oz 34,790 23,522 32,140 37,858 38,092 
Total PGMs oz 1,300,540 1,247,636 1,340,057 1,476,705 1,532,837 
Concentrate and Platinum oz 24,850 23,253 20,425 7,032 136,183 
other
12
Palladium oz – (2,848) 11,888 3,232 61,110 
Gold oz – 13 117 201 4,641 
Rhodium oz – 175 889 1,008 15,965 
Ruthenium oz – 303 26,205 1,942 26,137 
Iridium oz – 387 1,789 64 5,291 
Total PGMs oz 24,850 21,282 61,313 13,479 249,327 
Lonmin Platinum Platinum oz 706,274 682,955 726,918 793,584 939,654
Palladium oz 315,515 302,485 341,348 365,309 434,413
Gold oz 16,289 18,922 20,268 24,650 26,774
Rhodium oz 98,657 94,335 94,227 103,924 132,246
Ruthenium oz 153,865 146,312 184,682 164,795 205,694
Iridium oz 34,790 23,909 33,929 37,922 43,384
Total PGMs oz 1,325,390 1,268,918 1,401,371 1,490,184 1,782,164
Nickel
11
MT 3,033 3,318 3,338 5,308 4,604
Copper
11
MT 2,169 2,045 1,978 2,474 2,974
Average prices Platinum $/oz 1,525 1,086 1,655 1,213 1,091
Palladium $/oz 448 224 372 339 300
Gold $/oz 1,153 912 867 647 571
Rhodium $/oz 2,308 1,571 7,614 5,757 3,971
Ruthenium $/oz 173 97 340 404 134
Iridium $/oz 520 388 414 402 233
Basket price of PGMs
13
$/oz 1,139 786 1,529 1,196 972
Basket price of PGMs
13
R/oz 8,375 6,873 11,543 8,533 6,518 
Nickel
11
$/MT 18,569 15,006 22,556 26,461 17,975
Copper
11
$/MT 6,623 6,291 7,212 6,971 7,882
Footnotes:
1 During the year we revised the management structure in mining into four business units and we will report against these from now onwards. Karee
includes the shafts K3, 1B and 4B and will also include K4 once production commences. Westerns comprises Rowland, Newman and the now closed
W1 and B3. Middelkraal represents Hossy and Saffy. Easterns includes E1, E2 and E3.
2 Pandora attributable tonnes mined includes Lonmin’s share (42.5%) of the total tonnes mined on the Pandora joint venture.
3 Tonnes milled excludes slag milling.
4 Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore produced by the Pandora joint venture for onward processing which is included in downstream operating statistics.
5 Tonnes milled and derived metal in concentrate from third-party ore purchases.
6 Head grade is the grammes per tonne (5PGE+Au) value contained in the tonnes milled and fed into the concentrator from the mines (excluding slag milled).
7 Recovery rate in the concentrators is the total content produced divided by the total content milled (excluding slag).
8 Metals in concentrate includes slag and has been calculated using industry standard downstream processing losses.
9 Corresponds to contained base metals in concentrate.
10 Lonmin refined metal production and sales include saleable ounces of Platinum produced from toll refining third party concentrate estimated at 8koz in
2010 and 4koz in 2009. 
11 Nickel is produced and sold as nickel sulphate crystals or solution and the volumes shown correspond to contained metal. Copper is produced as refined
product but typically at LME grade C.
12 Concentrate and other sales have been adjusted to a saleable ounce basis using industry standard recovery rates. 
13 Basket price of PGMs is based on the revenue generated in Rand and Dollar from the actual PGMs (5PGE + Au) sold in the period based on the
appropriate Rand / Dollar exchange rate applicable for each sales transaction.
OPERATING STATISTICS 148
OPERATING STATISTICS
Units 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Capital expenditure
1
Rm 1,989 2,106 2,816 1,923 1,207
$m 267 234 378 276 182
Cost per PGM ounce sold
2
Group:
Mining – Marikana R/oz 4,575 4,468 3,880 2,306 1,700 
Mining – Limpopo R/oz – 7,404 6,363 4,463 3,740 
Mining (weighted average) R/oz 4,575 4,490 3,979 2,430 1,827 
Concentrating – Marikana R/oz 862 808 724 470 330 
Concentrating – Limpopo R/oz – 1,820 1,743 1,506 847 
Concentrating (weighted average) R/oz 862 815 761 526 361 
Process division R/oz 809 693 686 600 406 
Shared business services R/oz 527 632 845 612 463 
C1 cost per PGM ounce produced R/oz 6,773 6,630 6,271 4,168 3,057 
Stock movement R/oz (358) 112 (863) 28 (9)
C1 cost per PGM ounce sold before base metal credits R/oz 6,415 6,742 5,408 4,196 3,048 
Base metal credits R/oz (415) (440) (482) (762) (400)
C1 cost per PGM ounce sold after base metal credits R/oz 6,000 6,302 4,926 3,434 2,648 
Amortisation R/oz 571 516 420 360 272 
C2 cost per PGM ounce sold R/oz 6,571 6,818 5,346 3,794 2,920 
Pandora mining cost:
C1 Pandora mining cost (in joint venture) R/oz 4,727 3,371 3,223 2,453 1,795
Pandora JV cost/ounce to Lonmin (adjusting Lonmin share of profit) R/oz 7,253 5,956 6,200 4,225 3,110
Exchange rates Average rate for period
3
R/$ 7.45 9.00 7.45 7.14 6.63
£/$ 0.64 0.64 0.51 0.51 0.55
Closing rate R/$ 6.92 7.47 8.27 6.83 7.77
£/$ 0.64 0.62 0.56 0.50 0.53
Footnotes: 
1 Capital expenditure is the aggregate of the purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (includes capital accruals and
excludes capitalised interest). 
2 It should be noted that with the restructuring of the business in both 2010 and 2009 the cost allocation between business units has been
changed and, therefore, whilst the total is on a like-for-like basis, individual line items are not totally comparable.
3 Exchange rates are calculated using the market average daily closing rate over the course of the period. 149
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Lonmin’s shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg
stock exchanges and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are
also traded in an over-the-counter (OTC) market in the USA.
UK share register information
All holdings of the Company’s shares are maintained on the
Company’s UK share register, with the exception of those held
on the South African branch register. The register is administered
by Equiniti Registrars (formerly known as Lloyds TSB Registrars).
You can access information about your shareholding
including balance movements and dividend payments on
Shareview, an electronic communications service provided by
Equiniti. It also allows you to change your registered address
details, set up a dividend mandate, vote at general meetings
and register to receive Company communications
electronically.
To register for this free service, visit www.shareview.co.uk
and follow the simple instructions. You will need your
shareholder reference number, which can be found on your
share certificate, dividend tax voucher or proxy card.
South African branch register information
The South African branch register is administered by Link
Market Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd.
Contact details for both the UK and South African
registrars can be found in Corporate Information on page 151. 
Dividends
The Company declares dividends in US Dollars. Subject 
to shareholder approval, the final dividend of 15 US cents per 
share for the year ended 30 September 2010 will be paid on
11 February 2011 to shareholders on the registers at the close
of business on 14 January 2011. The dividend will be paid in
Sterling to UK shareholders (unless they elect to receive their
dividend in US Dollars) and in Rand to shareholders on the SA
branch register. The Sterling equivalent of the dividend will be
announced after the Company has finalised the conversion
rate. The Rand equivalent of the dividend will be based on 
the mid market US Dollar to Rand exchange rate at noon on 
30 December 2010. The dividend will be paid in US Dollars to
all other overseas shareholders (unless they elect to receive
Sterling dividends or have mandated their dividend payments
to a UK bank or participate in TAPS). Elections to receive an
alternative currency (US Dollars or Sterling) should comprise a
signed request to Equiniti at the address shown on page 151
to be received by 5 p.m. on 14 January 2011. No transfers will 
be permitted between the UK principal register and the SA
branch register from the date on which the Rand dividend is
announced until the record date, both dates inclusive (i.e., the
last date on which transfers between registers will be permitted
is 29 December 2010).
Dividend payment to your bank account
The Company can pay UK registered shareholders’ dividends
direct to their bank or building society account. This means
that dividends will normally be in shareholders’ accounts on the
same day as the payment is made and tax vouchers will be
posted the shareholders’ registered addresses. Shareholders
wishing to adopt this method of payment should log on to
www.shareview.co.uk or contact the registrars. Contact details
can be found in Corporate Information on page 151.
Transcontinental Automated Payment System (TAPS)
TAPS permits shareholders resident in certain countries to
receive dividend payments to their local bank and in their local
currency. All eligible shareholders have been or will be sent
information on TAPS by Equiniti.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) is available through 
which eligible shareholders may invest the whole of their cash
dividends in additional Lonmin Plc shares. Eligible shareholders
on the registers on the record date for the recommended final
dividend, 14 January 2011, may participate in the plan in
respect of that dividend, provided their application forms are
received by 14 January 2011 in the case of shareholders on
the UK register and by 28 January 2011 for shareholders on
the South African branch register. Copies of the DRIP brochure
and application form have been sent to eligible shareholders 
on the registers up to 11 July 2008 and are being sent to those
entered on the registers between this date and 14 January 2011.
Further copies are available from the registrars or can be
downloaded from the registrars’ website.
UK SA
USD/rand exchange rate 30 December 2010
Last day to trade 
cum div 11 January 2011 7 January 2011
Last day to trade 
on the JSE 7 January 2011
Ex div date 12 January 2011 10 January 2011
Record date 14 January 2011 14 January 2011
USD/sterling 
exchange rate To be advised
Deadline for receipt 
of DRIP applications 14 January 2011 28 January 2011
Dividend payment 
date 11 February 2011 11 February 2011
American Depository Receipts (ADRs)
The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for
which The Bank of New York Mellon acts as the depository.
Each ADR represents one ordinary share of the Company. 
The ADRs trade in the OTC market under the symbol LOMNY.
When dividends are paid to shareholders, the depository
makes the equivalent payment in US Dollars to ADR holders.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on
page 151.
Further information for UK-domiciled shareholders 
Capital Gains Tax
For Capital Gains Tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares
in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May 1998,
who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base
cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two
companies. Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998
of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would
be 80.498% for Lonmin Plc and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
The Company’s capital reduction was completed on 
22 February 2002. For the purposes of assessing any liability to
capital gains tax, UK shareholders should apportion 13.33% of
the base cost of their original shareholding to the capital
reduction and the balance to their new holding of ordinary
shares of $1 each.
The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March
1982 was 38.9 pence (as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation
issues), 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the
Company’s shares on 24 April 1998, 125.3 pence as adjusted
for the de-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998 and
266.1 pence as adjusted for shareholders who took up their full
entitlement of ordinary shares in the Rights Issue in June 2009. 150
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Shareholders who did not take up their full entitlement in the
Rights Issue but who instead sold some or all of their rights
may be required to adjust their base cost in their Lonmin Plc
ordinary shares and should seek independent tax advice as to
their liability for capital gains tax in the event they sell their
Lonmin Plc ordinary shares.
Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Account (ISAs)
Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited offers
the Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA for the investment
of Lonmin Plc shares.
UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin
Corporate ISA up to a maximum currently of £7,200 in cash 
or by direct transfer of eligible employee shares within 90 days
of the release from a Sharesave Scheme. However, from 
6 October 2009, investors aged 50 or over on or before 
5 April 2010 may invest up to £10,200 in the current tax year.
From 6 April 2010, the new allowance of £10,200 will apply 
to all investors.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information 
on page 151. Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management
Limited is regulated by the FSA. This is not a recommendation
that shareholders should subscribe to the ISA. The advantages
of holding shares in an ISA vary according to individual
circumstances and shareholders who are in any doubt should
consult their financial adviser.
ShareGift
Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity
share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh
Foundation (registered charity number 1052686). Those
shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the
value of which make them uneconomic to sell, can donate 
the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the
proceeds to a wide range of charities. Further information
about ShareGift can be obtained from their website at
www.ShareGift.org and a ShareGift transfer form can be
downloaded from the Company’s website.
Warning to shareholders
A survey by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) has
reported that an increasing number of shareholders of UK
listed companies are being targeted by individuals
purporting to be legitimate brokers or financial advisors.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any
unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or
offers of free reports on the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
• Make sure you get the correct name of the person and
organisation and make a record of any other information
they give you, e.g. telephone number, address, etc.
• Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA
before getting involved. You can check at
www.fsa.gov.uk/register.
• The FSA also maintains on its website a list of
unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have
targeted, UK investors and any approach from such
organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this
list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate
action can be considered.
If you deal with any unauthorised firm, you would
not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial
Services Compensation Scheme. The FSA can,
preferably, be contacted by completing an on-line form 
at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/
overseas.shtml or, if you do not have access to the
internet, on 0845 606 1234.
• Inform the registrars on the relevant telephone numbers
listed on the following page. They are not able to
investigate such incidents themselves but will record 
the details and pass them on to the FSA. 151
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Lonmin Plc
Registered in England and Wales
Company number 103002
Registered Office
Lonmin Plc
4 Grosvenor Place
London
SW1X 7YL
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7201 6000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7201 6100
E-mail: contact@lonmin.com
Website: www.lonmin.com
Operational Headquarters
Physical address:
34 Melrose Boulevard
1st Floor
Building 13
Melrose North 
Melrose Arch
2196
South Africa
Postal address:
PO Box 98811
Sloane Park
2152
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)11 218 8300
Fax: +27 (0)11 218 8310
E-mail: contact@lonmin.com
Website: www.lonmin.com
Company Secretary
Rob Bellhouse BSc FCIS
Head of Investor Relations
Tanya Chikanza
External Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7311 8317
Fax: +44 (0)20 7311 8257
Stockbrokers
United Kingdom:
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
10 Aldermanbury
London
EC2U 7RF
Tel: +44 (0)20 7742 4000
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5LB
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7986 4000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7986 2266
South Africa:
JPMorgan Equities Limited
1 Fricker Road
Illovo
Johannesburg 2196
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)11 507 0430
Fax: +27 (0)11 507 0503
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
UK Callers:
Tel: +44 (0)871 384 2052
Fax: +44 (0)871 384 2100
International Callers:
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7047
Fax: +44 (0)1903 833371
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
Link Market Services South Africa 
(Pty) Ltd
Physical address:
16th Floor
11 Diagonal Street
Johannesburg 2001
South Africa
Postal address:
PO Box 4844
Johannesburg 2000
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)11 630 0800
Fax: +27 (0)860 674 4381
Website: www.linkmarketservices.co.za
ADR Depository
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
PO Box 358516
Pittsburgh
PA 15252-8516
US Callers: 
Tel: +1 877 353 1154 (toll free)
International Callers: 
Tel: +1 201 680 6825
E-mail: shrrelations@bnymellon.com
ISA Provider
Rensburg Sheppards Investment
Management Limited
Corporate ISA Department
The Plaza
100 Old Hall Street
Liverpool
L3 9AB
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)151 237 2160
Fax: +44 (0)151 255 1742 152
FINANCIAL CALENDAR FOR 2011
January AGM and Q1 Production Report
May Interim Results including Q2 Production Report
July Q3 Production Report
November Final Results including Q4 Production Report
Please note that the Production Report for Q1 and Q3 incorporate the Company’s Interim Management 
Statements for the respective half year.
The paper used in this report is produced with FSC mixed sources pulp which is fully recyclable,
biodegradable, pH Neutral, heavy metal absence and acid-free. It is manufactured within a mill which
complies with the international environmental ISO 14001 standard.
Fulmar Colour is FSC certified, PEFC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is committed 
to all round excellence and improving environmental performance is an important part of this strategy. 
We aim to reduce at source the effect our operations have on the environment, and are committed 
to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry
standards.
Fulmar Colour is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Photography by Kevin Rudham
www.krphotography.co.za
Printed by Fulmar Colour
Designed and produced by MAGEE
www.magee.co.uk
Cert no. TT-COC-002226
ISO14001REGISTERED
DNVCertificationBV 013 153
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Lonmin Charter
Our Mission
To grow and build our
portfolio of high quality assets.
To deliver the requirements
of the South African broad-
based socio-economic Mining
Charter and we welcome the
opportunity to transform our
business.
To build a value-based
culture, which is founded
on safe work, continuous
improvement, common
standards and procedures,
community involvement and
one that rewards employees
for high performance.
We are successful
when
Our employees live and work
safely and experience the
personal satisfaction that
comes with high performance
and recognition.
Our shareholders are realising
a superior total return on their
investment and support our
corporate sustainability values.
The communities in which we
operate value our relationships.
We are meeting our
commitments to all business
partners and our suppliers,
contractors, partners and
customers support our
Charter.
Our Values
Zero Harm
We are committed to zero
harm to people and the
environment.
Integrity, Honesty & Trust
We are committed ethical
people who do what we say
we will do.
Transparency
Open, honest communication
and free sharing of information.
Respect For Each Other
Embracing our diversity
enriched by openness,
sharing, trust, teamwork
and involvement.
High Performance
Stretching our individual and
team capabilities to achieve
innovative and superior
outcomes.
Employee Self-Worth
To enhance the quality of life
for our employees and their
families and promote self
esteem.
We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals. We create value by
the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals.
We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct
business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
Ian Farmer
Chief Executive www.lonmin.com Annual Report and Accounts
For the year ended 30 September 2010
Lonmin Plc
Registered in England, Company Number 103002
Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
Lonmin Plc
Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2010
Delivering today
Anticipating tomorrow
