 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2011
www.lonmin.com
Lonmin Plc
Registered in England, Company Number 103002
Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
Annual Report and Accounts
For the year ended 30 September 2011
Lonmin Plc
Building for the
Future About Lonmin
Lonmin is one of the world’s largest primary producers of Platinum
Group Metals (PGMs). These metals are essential for many industrial
applications, especially catalytic converters for internal combustion
engine emissions, as well as their widespread use in jewellery.
Our operations, consisting of eleven shafts and inclines, are situated in the Bushveld Complex
in South Africa, a country which hosts nearly 80% of global PGM resources. We have been
granted a New Order Mining Licence by the South African government for our core operations,
which runs to 2037 and is renewable to 2067. We have resources of 175 million troy ounces of
PGMs and 43 million ounces of reserves.
We create value for our shareholders through mining, refining and marketing PGMs and have a
vertically integrated operational structure – from mine to market. Our Mining operations extract
ore from which our Process Division produces refined PGMs for delivery to our customers.
Underpinning our operations, our Shared Services functions provide high quality levels of
support and infrastructure across the operations.
Lonmin
The PGMs are, for
economic purposes, 
the six elements Platinum,
Palladium, Rhodium,
Ruthenium, Iridium and Gold
– often referred to by the
shorthand “6E”
⁄ [ 01 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
We conduct business 
in a sustainable, socially 
and environmentally
responsible way.
We believe this is essential for Lonmin’s future and for the wellbeing
of the communities that host our operations.
Contents
  ifc  About Lonmin
Directors’ Report – Business Review
 02  Highlights
 04  Chairman’s Letter
 06  Chief Executive Officer’s Review
 10  2011 Key Performance Indicators
 12  Our Business Model
 14  Strategic Overview
 16  Transformation
 20  Operational Review
 31  Financial Review
 36  Internal Controls and Risk Management
 41  Sustainability Review
 60  Board of Directors
 62  Executive Committee
Directors’ Report – Governance
 63  Directors’ Report – Governance
 82  Remuneration Committee Report
100  Independent Auditor’s Report
101  Responsibility Statement of the Directors 
in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts
Financial Statements
102  Consolidated Income Statement
102  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
103  Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
104  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
106  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
107  Notes to the Accounts
142  Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet
143  Notes to the Company Accounts
149  Consolidated Group Five Year Financial Record
Operating Statistics
150  Operating Statistics
153  Reserves and Resources
Shareholder Information
155  Shareholder Information
157  Corporate Information
158  Financial Calendar for 2012
159  Acronyms and Abbreviations
 ibc  Lonmin Charter [ 02 ]
Highlights
How we performed in 2011:
• Platinum sales of 721,000 ounces, PGMs sales of 1,436,000 ounces
• Revenue of around $2.0 billion
• Underlying Operating Profit of $311 million
• Underlying Earnings Per Share of 111.6 US cents up 59.0%
• Net debt reduced by 37.6% to $234 million
• Dividend payment maintained
• Metal in concentrate production of 719,000 ounces of Platinum and 1,352,000 PGMs ounces
• Available ore reserves up 8.8% to 2.9 million square metres
• Improved Concentrator recoveries to 85.3%
• Safety – unacceptable fatalities, but an overall 19.8% improvement in LTIFR to 4.71 per million hours
Financial Highlights
07
620
660
640
700
740
720
680
800
780
760
08 09 10 11
Financial year
Ounces (000’s)
794
727
683
706
721
Platinum Sales
07
-200
200
0
600
800
400
1,000
08 09 10 11
Financial year
US$m
796
963
(93)
228
311
Underlying EBIT
1
Non-Financial Highlights
07
0
1.0
0.5
2.0
2.5
1.5
3.0
08 09 10 11
Financial year
Centares (000,000’s)
2.0
1.7
2.0
2.7
2.9
Ore Reserves
2
07
0
4
2
8
10
6
12
08 09 10 11
Financial year
Per million hours worked
10.8
6.27
5.87
4.71
6.21
LTIFR
3
1 Underlying EBIT is calculated on profit for the period excluding special items, as noted on page 118 of this Report.
2 In 2009 we changed our reporting methodology for ore reserve development, in line with industry best practice, to exclude partially
developed ore reserves. We have reported on this basis since then.
3 Lost time injury frequency rate, as measured per million hours worked, is a key safety performance indicator. [ 03 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Key management actions taken in 2011:
• Reviewed our safety culture and policies following six fatalities – improvement initiatives in place
• First full year of business since successful relocation of senior executive team to South Africa –
positive impact through 2011 
• Number One furnace successfully modified – stable performance
• New longer term bank facilities of $945 million – capacity to effectively manage impact of market
volatility
• Contained the impact of the illegal strikes at Karee mining operation
– momentum in operations safely restored following stoppage
– revised unit cost guidance increase of 11.2% per PGM ounce achieved
• Tailings treatment and chrome plants projects successfully implemented – will maximise recoveries
• Continued implementation of our transformation programme towards our 2014 Social and Labour
Plan targets
• Agreement with Shanduka to explore feasibility of managing and operating Limpopo
Key focus areas in 2012 
and beyond:
• Maintain our focus on safety initiatives as we continue our journey to zero harm
• Achieve the delivery of our transformation and sustainability targets
• Flexible management of our production profile to deliver profitable ounces
– Build on momentum established in 2011 to further improve productivity 
– Platinum sales of around 750,000 ounces
– Capital expenditure of up to $450 million
– Unit cost percentage increase in line with wage settlement
• Continue with momentum to grow capacity to 950,000 Platinum ounces at Marikana
– Deliver on essential capital projects that will secure future growth
• Akanani and Pandora – continue with evaluation processes
• Investing for future growth whilst delivering profitable ounces and maintaining a strong
balance sheet [ 04 ]
Chairman’s Letter
Dear Fellow Shareholder,
I am pleased to be able to report that Lonmin has delivered a solid operational
and financial performance for 2011. While production failed to meet our original
expectations, the outturn was nevertheless satisfactory and increased sales of refined
metal allowed your Company to report a worthwhile increase in profitability. Net
earnings attributable to equity shareholders grew from $112 million to $273 million.
Markets, Operations and Costs
Our 2011 financial year was hallmarked by the instability of world economies.
Lacklustre economic growth, coupled with the increasing burden of undigested
debt, and the devastating earthquake in Japan all contributed to the substantial
volatility and subsequent weakness in Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) prices and in
our core currencies. Against that background, your Board’s adherence to a policy
of prudent balance sheet management was appropriate.
The two major operating challenges for your Company in 2011 were safety and labour
relations. Lonmin and its management remain absolutely committed to ensuring
the safety of our employees which is defined in our stated “Zero Harm” core value.
Very regrettably, during the year we experienced six fatalities at our mines. We have
subsequently reviewed and refocused our safety strategy and recent safety statistics
have shown a significant improvement. Constant vigilance remains the watchword.
Labour relations also presented challenges during the year with ten production
days lost because of an illegal strike at our Karee operations. This incident was 
the result of an internal union leadership dispute, not through any difference with
management. Nevertheless the incident had severe adverse consequences for a
large part of our workforce. We are determined to maintain a positive and
constructive relationship with our entire workforce. Community relationships have
also been challenging and considerable management effort is going into building 
a more effective rapport with community leaders. 
Cost increases have continued to be an issue, driven by inflationary factors
including wage increases and electricity, to mention just two, and by the costs 
of increasing production and development. Managing our cost performance will
remain a key area of focus for both management and Board in 2012.
Industry Challenges
The mining industry worldwide has experienced a growing number of external
challenges in recent months. Windfall gains in some commodities from the
explosive growth in China particularly, accompanied in some producing nations
elsewhere by poor standards of living and unemployment, have fanned the political
winds of change in resentment of perceived inequality. Governments are
increasingly being pressured to take action to retain a greater proportion of the
benefit of natural resources for local inhabitants. “Resource nationalism” is being
debated in many countries and some of the South African expressions of these
sentiments I discuss below. Responsible mining companies that operate according
to best international corporate social responsibility standards, as defined by the
International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), have a great deal to offer their
host nations. It is imperative that in considering resource nationalism an
appropriate balance is maintained between the distribution of the wealth that
mining companies are able to create and the competitive nature of the world that
they operate in.
Transformation and Growth Initiatives
We have consistently demonstrated our full support for the transformation initiative.
The word “transformation” can be read as shorthand for the process to change 
the old modus operandi of the South African mining industry to a new model
representative of the non-racial, inclusive, more equitable standards of the country
in a way that favours historically disadvantaged peoples without destroying the
economic competitiveness of the industry and indeed the country. We completely
endorse this objective and process, and you will see a report on our progress on
page 16. Determined action to meet targets established for employment equity,
procurement, training and Historically Disadvantaged South African (HDSA)
ownership will progressively transform our business and do much to address the
evils of poverty, unemployment and inequality. This approach is however clearly not
the same as that espoused by those who claim that nationalisation will achieve
these goals more speedily and effectively. While recognising that this is a matter for
the elected government to decide, we cannot subscribe to this view. It seems to us
at best debatable that South Africa can afford to acquire control of the mining
industry, and – if it did – whether the change of control would provide more efficient
operations, yielding greater benefits for employees and other stakeholders, while
still generating the capital necessary to fund the necessary investment in maintaining
let alone increasing production. It is an inescapable fact that there is a world shortage
of technical and managerial skills in the mining industry and it must be expected
that nationalisation would be seen as a major disincentive by many incumbents.
Similar considerations apply to the providers of capital, both domestic and foreign.
“Our strategy is to
continue to invest in
capacity building, whilst
retaining the flexibility to
moderate the rate of
capacity expansion
consistent with markets
and balance sheet
prudence.”
Roger Phillimore
Chairman [ 05 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
The role played by foreign investors in the historic development
of the South African mining industry should not be overlooked,
especially at a time when one of the present government’s
most significant imperatives – the creation of many tens of
thousands of new jobs – will require substantial private fixed
investment if it is to have any chance of success.
In any event it can be argued that ownership of the country’s
mineral wealth is already vested in the State. In accordance with
the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA),
your Company has the right to extract ore and refine precious
and other associated metals. The New Order Mining Rights are
subject to compliance with the detailed terms of the Mining
Charter, and it is to meet these by 2014 that the work of
transformation is directed. We pay taxes and royalties. We
employ, directly and through contractors, some 37,000 people
in our mines. Indirectly through our purchases of goods and
services we employ many thousands more. In reality the
economic benefits of our business are shared with South
Africa, its citizens and businesses. The graphic on page 19
shows that over 80% of the revenue we generated during the
year flowed to employees, the South African Government, and
local suppliers. The proportion paid to shareholders as
dividends was no more than 1%.
Notwithstanding the uncertainty arising from this debate we
remain focused on building mining capacity to our target of
950,000 Platinum ounces. Our key aim will be to mine safe and
profitable ounces while building flexibility to take advantage of
improvements in the market. Given near term market
uncertainties, cash flow will be monitored vigilantly and our rate
of production growth will be moderated when necessary to
ensure balance sheet health. 
In the year under review we reported capital expenditure of 
$410 million of which 56% represents an increase in investment
in ore body development and back up smelting capacity and
we plan our capital spend for 2012 to increase by 9.8% to
around $450 million. It is important that our shareholders
recognise that continued substantial investment reflects our
confidence both in the long term prospects for PGMs and in a
stable and economically vibrant South Africa. There is however
a caveat relating to the fundamental importance of security of
tenure; we cannot reasonably continue a programme of long
term investment if we cannot enjoy the certainty of access to
all the Company’s mineral resources.
In summary, being an effective and supportive corporate citizen
in South Africa, supporting our employees and working in
partnership with the Government of South Africa towards our
transformation targets must be and are priorities. As part of
this, the decision to move our top executive team to South
Africa has been shown to be the right one. I think the move has
also been, in some part, responsible for the major growth from
5% to around 21% we have seen in our South African investor
base over the last year. Lonmin however, remains predominantly
an internationally owned Company. 
Role and Effectiveness of the Board
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that I report
personally on how the Company has addressed the principles
of the Code relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board.
These topics are covered in detail on page 63, but I welcome
the opportunity to provide an overview.
Maintaining an effective Board is crucial, as it is only through
harnessing the collective skills, knowledge, experience and
intellect of the Directors that we perform at our best in
managing the Company’s affairs. We acknowledge and
support the need for diversity in all its forms, as the current
composition of the Board demonstrates. A great deal of effort
has been put into building your Board, whose members were
drawn from a diverse range of backgrounds, collectively well
equipped to address the challenges of the future. Each Director
was appointed on merit, through an objective process, but it is
the personal character and judgement of the individuals which
matters the most and in this regard, I am confident that the
Board possesses the right attributes.
A great deal has been published on the topic of gender in
recent months and this remains in sharp political focus.
However, this debate has its roots in the UK and Europe, and
Lonmin is an unusual UK Company in that the vast majority of
its assets are in South Africa, where other business priorities
prevail. While we have and will continue to insist on gender
neutral shortlists, the broader needs of the business in
recruiting the best person for the role should and will always
take precedence and, in this context, the issue of gender does
not commend itself to us as needing to be governed by
quotas, formal or informal.
Dividend
Consistent with the dividend policy established a year ago and
recognising the considerable cash commitment inherent in our
capital investment programme, your Board is recommending a
final dividend of 15 cents per share be declared, unchanged
from last year.
Board Changes
Michael Hartnall has served as a Director since May 2003, and
has informed me of his intention not to seek re-election at the
Annual General Meeting (AGM) in January 2012. We will miss
his wise counsel and calm good nature, as Michael has been an
invaluable member of the Board for nine years during which
time he chaired the Audit & Risk Committee and was a member
of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, as well as
acting as our Senior Independent Director. He will leave with
our thanks and best wishes for the future. Len Konar has already
taken over the chairmanship of the Audit & Risk Committee
and Jim Sutcliffe has agreed to take on appointment as Senior
Independent Director from the date of the AGM.
Outlook
We are cautious in the short term as global uncertainties
continue to play out, but we remain confident that industrial
fundamentals will begin to reassert themselves in the medium
term. Both automobile and jewellery end users are holding up
remarkably well in the face of gathering recession predictions.
In the longer term the return of less dysfunctional markets, the
resumption of growth and the unique environmentally important
properties of these rare PGM metals, increasingly in new uses
such as fuel cells, will underpin higher demand levels. It is our
view that additional supply will be required to meet these higher
needs and moreover that the investment in new capacity,
across the industry, will only be justified by higher Rand prices.
Consequently, our strategy is to continue to invest in capacity
building, whilst retaining the flexibility to moderate the rate of
capacity expansion consistent with markets and balance sheet
prudence. Lonmin is well placed in this as production from the
Marikana resource can be considerably expanded before a
major new shaft system is required.
Employees
Once again, I would like to give the warm thanks of the entire
Board to all our employees, who have worked so hard during
the year and to all our contractors who continue to provide
their support for our operations.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
11 November 2011 [ 06 ]
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Growing production
capacity for the
inevitable market
recovery.
Dear Fellow Shareholder,
1. Introduction
Operationally, 2011 has been an encouraging year for the Company in which
we have reaped the benefits of the operational turnaround we undertook in
2009 and 2010. Lonmin is a fundamentally healthier business, and is moving 
in the right direction towards clear goals.
However, against the backdrop of a fast changing South African environment
the year has not been without its difficulties either, and I will address these later
in this report.
There are areas which affect our business which we, like our peers, do not
control – the Rand, the price of platinum and, of course, the global economy in
which an international business like Lonmin operates to name but three. In the
last year the entire Lonmin team, from mine to market, has focused relentlessly
on those things we can control and in taking as much uncertainty out of the
business as possible.
I am, therefore, pleased to be able to report that we achieved our revised
Platinum sales guidance of 720,000 ounces and revised unit cost guidance 
of around 11%. Encouragingly, the mines hoisted ore containing 720,000
Platinum ounces, whilst metals in concentrate was 719,000 Platinum ounces,
ahead of 715,000 and 694,000 Platinum ounces delivered last year
respectively. These results are particularly pleasing given the safety issues 
and illegal strike we experienced.
For ten of the twelve months of the year our business delivered according to
plan. In the two months where it did not, we saw factors around safety and an
illegal industrial action at Karee affect performance. The operational review
covers these events in more detail. Those ten months of delivery demonstrate
that when these events do not affect us we are a fundamentally sound and
successful operation. Our challenge is to ensure that those events become 
rare or are eradicated in future.
2. Safety
After many years of improving safety we lost six colleagues in separate fatal
incidents at Marikana in the first seven months of 2011. 
Lonmin, and mining, has been my working life for many years. The shock of
losing colleagues never changes, and the loss of Jonas Thomage Kgwatlha,
Modisaotsile Edward Setlhare, Afiado Mazive, Hermanus Potgieter, Rafael
Macamo and Alpheus Mogane Moerane was felt across the entire business.
“The healthy state of our
ore reserves bode well
for 2012 and we
anticipate sales of
around 750,000 
Platinum ounces.”
Ian Farmer
Chief Executive Officer [ 07 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Whilst our safety performance was unacceptable I
believe that our fundamental approach to safety
management has been sound and our
commitment to zero harm and safe production
remains undiminished. We carried out a root and
branch review of all of our safety procedures. This
review re-affirmed our basic safety strategy, but
we identified five key areas where we must
improve: leadership development, systems
development and simplification, safety culture,
enabling environment and contractor safety
management.
I’m pleased to say that our safety performance
following the cluster of fatalities mid year improved.
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) for 2011
showed a 19.8% annual improvement. All
employees and management were however in
breach of the balanced score card disqualifier of
four fatalities and as a result, no bonus was
allocated for this target. In the last five months of
the year, at a time when we sought to increase our
throughput, we achieved four million fatality free
shifts across all of the Lonmin operations, an
achievement which we last achieved in 2009
during a time when production was contracting 
as a result of the restructuring programme. I am
also particularly pleased to report that Rowland
shaft’s safety record now leads in the industry
having achieved twelve million fall of ground fatal
free shifts over a ten year period.
The journey to zero harm will take time and require
the continued commitment and dedication of both
management and employees.
3. Operational Overview
Mining
Our Mining Division’s performance demonstrated
continued growth and it is unfortunate that the
excellent momentum established at the beginning
of the year was interrupted by the mid year
fatalities and an illegal strike at Karee operations.
Total tonnes mined were 11.7 million, up 3.7%
from last year, of which 10.9 million tonnes were
from underground operations at Marikana.
Management continued to place emphasis on
quality of mining and improving mining discipline
and the fruits of the processes, procedures,
training and work initiatives are evident in these
results. Notably, the lost momentum on all
operations from the disruptions at Karee was
quickly restored with excellent production being
recorded from June through to September. The
interruptions however had a detrimental effect on
our overall mining figures. 
Hossy, our proof-of-concept mechanised mine
recorded a good year. However, machine
reliability, availability of replacement parts and the
difficulty of attracting and retaining trained artisans
have continued to be major barriers to efficient
production. As a result, we are scaling back on
the mechanised proof-of-concept method to
introduce an element of hybrid mining to some of
the mine areas to mitigate the risk to production. 
Immediately available ore reserves at our Marikana
operations were 2.9 million centares at the end of
2011, a remarkable 8.8% higher than last year.
This level of preparedness allows us to plan our
future growth with confidence. 
Our overall milled grade was 4.40 grammes per
tonne, a reduction of 5.4% against the prior year.
The reduction reflects the slightly higher dilution
resulting from the high levels of development, poor
ground conditions experienced at K3, an overall
lower UG2 in situ underground ore grade and the
proportionate increase in the mining of lower
grade Merensky ore from underground and
opencast. The grade however remains within our
acceptable range.
Our unit costs per PGM ounce increased by
11.2% reflecting the continued inflationary
pressures being felt by the industry in general. 
The unit cost was also impacted by the production
losses arising from the safety stoppages and
illegal strikes. Excluding these two major factors
unit cost was up around 8.0% on a normalised
basis and in line with our original guidance,
demonstrating prudent cost control.
We have made progress with our capital
development with a capital spend of $268 million
during the year mainly at K4, Hossy and Saffy and
at the sub-incline at K3. This will stand us in good
stead with meeting our future production profile.
Processing
The Division delivered solid results. I am delighted
to say the upward trend in concentrator recoveries
we saw early in the year continued with high
levels being sustained throughout 2011. The
underground concentrator recoveries we achieved
of 85.4%, up another 0.7% from 2010, contributed
to the increase in the instantaneous recovery rate,
which was 82.5%, up 3.4 percentage points. We
say more about this key area in the Operational
Review on page 24.
The modifications made to the Number One furnace
during the re-build at the end of 2010 have been
successful, and it operated satisfactorily throughout
the year. Smelter risk will be further reduced in
Quarter three of 2012 when the Number Two
furnace comes online.
The tailings treatment project is on schedule with
three chrome plants commissioned by Xstrata-
Merafe Chrome Ventures and ChromTech, our
partners on the projects, and the Rowland tailings
treatments plant was commissioned in August this
year. The tailings treatment plant at Easterns is due
to be commissioned in early 2012. The projects
will improve our recoveries of PGMs by 2% per
year when fully operational at these plants. [ 08 ]
4. Financial
We completed the refinancing of our bank debt
facilities during the second half of the year, and
replaced $875 million bank debt facilities we had
with $945 million of new facilities on superior
terms. As a result we have extended the maturity
profile of our debt to support our growth and
enhanced our ability to maintain a sound and
efficient balance sheet with some flexibility. Our
net debt position and balance sheet were strong
at year end, and position us well to manage the
prevailing short term global market uncertainties.
5. Growth Plan 
We will continue to focus on maximising the value
of the Marikana asset which has a long life high
quality ore body. Our K3, K4, Saffy and Hossy
shafts drive our growth ambitions. There are new
sub-declines at K3 that will enable us to maintain
the efficiency of this shaft. K4 is a new generation
shaft that comes online in 2012 and will ramp up
production over the next few years. Saffy and
Hossy will continue to ramp up. Combined, these
shafts are the platform for us to reach what we
believe to be Marikana’s optimal production level
of around 950,000 Platinum ounces. The world
events of the last six months demonstrate how
the timetable for delivery of this capacity may be
influenced by external factors.
We now expect the platinum market in 2012 to
remain broadly in balance with a bias to a small
surplus. The recovery in demand we had
previously anticipated may be postponed due 
to these short term difficult market conditions.
We have the capacity to produce 800,000 ounces
of Platinum in 2012. However, given the high risk
of business disruption particularly from Section 54
safety stoppages, our guidance for next year’s
sales is 750,000 Platinum ounces.
The transaction we announced with Shanduka
Group (Proprietary) Limited (Shanduka) on Limpopo
provides a potential development roadmap whilst
enabling our own management to continue to
focus on delivering the value inherent in our
Marikana asset. Akanani is a longer term prospect
and we continue to look at the options that are
available to us whilst completing additional
feasibility work particularly on processing options.
Lonmin is well positioned for the future thanks to
our strategy of investing in ore reserve development.
At the time of our interim results in May, we
announced our plan for organic growth beyond
2013 to reach Marikana's optimal production level
of 950,000 Platinum ounces. We continue to
believe that investing to grow our production
capacity is the right thing to do to enable us to
take advantage of the attractive long term
fundamentals for PGM markets. However, in light
of current economic uncertainty and short term
PGM outlook, together with our objectives of
delivering profitable ounces and maintaining
balance sheet prudence, we will retain flexibility
around our capital expenditure plans and we will
moderate the pace of capacity expansion if the
environment dictates.
Markets Outlook
As I mentioned above, I believe the outlook for the
PGM markets will be challenging in the short term,
influenced by the global uncertainties we have seen
in recent months. However, beyond this horizon
the fundamentals remain sound underpinned by
the tightening emission legislation, demand
growth in non-road emissions control, anticipated
growth in diesel car market share particularly in
the United States and India and growth in gasoline
vehicles in China. The stationary fuel cell market is
real and growing, whilst jewellery is set to remain a
price equaliser in times of slack demand. Growth
in supply from the South African PGM producers
will however remain constrained. 
6. Transformation
The whole management team is clear that issues
around transformation are core to the continued
success and growth of this business. It is a
fundamental element of our licence to operate and
we strive to do it well both because it is right, and
because it is right for our investors.
Equally, a healthy, profitable and growing Lonmin
brings benefits to all of our stakeholders, be they
investors, our employees, the authorities or the
communities in which we operate.
This year we have spent in total, R309 million 
on community projects, hostel conversions,
healthcare delivery, adult learning schemes,
training and provision of bursaries to university
students. Of the 184 students we have sponsored
to date, 157 are HDSAs and 35 are female. Our
management payroll excluding white women,
now includes 32% HDSAs, up from 28% in 2010,
all of whom are merit based appointments.
We strive to achieve good working relationships
with our stakeholders and during the year we
continued to build on the collaborative approach
that we have successfully nurtured in the recent
past particularly with the unions. We are also
working closely with the Bapo Ba-Mogale
community in developing a roadmap that can
unlock the inherent value of their position for the
benefit of the Bapo community as a whole.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review (continued) [ 09 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
We are exploring initiatives that will enable us to
attain the Mining Charter Phase Two ownership
target by 2014 and have shared our concepts to
achieve this with the Department of Mineral
Resources (DMR). One such initiative is the
Limpopo transaction as it creates the potential
opportunity for Shanduka to become a Black
Economic Empowerment (BEE) PGM mining and
operating company, in line with the DMR’s
empowerment objectives. 
Some of the industry transformation targets are
challenging, However, I believe Lonmin’s
performance to be ahead of industry average in
most areas and we have reproduced our reporting
audited scorecard performance on page 44. 2012
will see our transformation initiatives accelerated
and we look forward to making announcements
on this progress as the year passes.
Social issues are increasingly coming to the fore 
in the public consciousness, in the media and
amongst policy makers. I expect this trend to
continue and grow, presenting fresh challenges 
in the years ahead.
The Transformation and Sustainability sections 
of this annual report on pages 16 and 41 provide
more details about the initiatives we have been
focusing on in this area.
7. Sustainability
We have made some good progress in achieving
our environmental targets. Whilst our total energy
consumption increased by 5.1% in 2011 to 6,533
Terajoules, we have made considerable progress
with our programmes on optimal management of
water resources and atmospheric emissions.
Notwithstanding these initiatives, the PGMs that
we produce are a vital component in autocatalytic
convertors and therefore play a significant role in
reducing air pollution and contributing positively to
the climate.
The Sustainability section of this annual report on
page 41 provides more detail.
8. Guidance
The healthy state of our ore reserves bode well for
2012. We anticipate sales of around 750,000
Platinum ounces in 2012 with additional ounces
coming from the K3 sub-declines, Hossy and
Saffy as they continue to ramp up, and the planned
decline of production from Newman continues.
We expect to improve cost control by driving
productivity to mitigate the increase in our gross
costs. We expect to achieve this, even though our
operations face significant inflationary pressures,
by maximising our efficiencies and economies of
scale as this will enable us to move down the cost
curve. Given this, we anticipate that unit cost will
increase in line with wage increases which we
expect will be in line with those recently achieved
by our two larger competitors.
Our capital spend will mostly be on further
developing K3 and Rowland shafts, ramping up
production at Hossy and Saffy and bringing K4
into production. Our capex guidance for 2012 is
around $450 million, being R3.7 billion. This is
slightly higher than prior guidance due to escalation,
the devaluation of the Rand and minor scope
changes. Most of this spend will be in Rands and
will therefore be subject to Rand strength. 
9. Exco Changes
I was delighted to welcome Natascha Viljoen 
and Thandeka Ncube to the Executive Committee
(Exco) during the year. Natascha assumed the 
role of Executive Vice President (EVP) Processing
following Theuns de Bruyn’s departure and was
part of the team that worked with Theuns in
enhancing our concentrator recoveries. Thandeka
has joined the Exco representing Shanduka and
replacing Rowan Smith and Karishma Sewpersad.
Theuns, Rowan and Karishma leave with our
thanks and good wishes.
10. Employee Thank You
The dedication, support and professionalism of
our employees remain key to our success. I am
proud of the way we have brought our operations
back to good health and established a platform
from which we can grow as a business in the
years ahead.
I would like to end my report this year with a
heartfelt “thank you” to each and every one 
of them.
Ian Farmer
Chief Executive Officer
11 November 2011 [ 10 ]
2011 Key Performance Indicators
Lonmin is a fundamentally healthier
business with clear goals.
⁄
Performance Definition Comment
Sales – Platinum Ounces
Sold
07
620
660
640
700
740
720
680
800
780
760
08 09 10 11
Financial year
Ounces (000’s)
794
727
683
706
721
721 ,000ounces
Platinum ounces sold are the
metal we sell either as refined
ounces or recoverable ounces
sold in concentrate.
For ten of the twelve months
of the year our business
delivered according to plan
and we achieved our revised
platinum sales guidance of
720,000 ounces. These
results are particularly
pleasing given the safety
issues and illegal strike we
experienced.
Underlying EBIT 
(Earnings Before Interest
and Taxation)
07
-200
200
0
600
800
400
1,000
08 09 10 11
Financial year
US$m
796
963
(93)
228
311
$311million
For any business the ultimate
aim is to grow underlying
EBIT and deliver value to
shareholders. We track our
performance by looking at 
our EBIT from continuing
operations. Underlying EBIT is
calculated on profit for the year
and excludes the effect of one
off and non-trading items.
This significant increase in
profitability reflects improved
PGM and base metal prices,
higher volumes partially offset
by the stronger Rand and
increased costs.
Free Cash Flow
07
-300
-100
-200
100
300
200
0
400
08 09 10 11
Financial year
US$m
380
264
(271) (203)
210
$210 million
We believe that a key metric
of how successful we are 
as a business is ultimately the
amount of cash we generate
before dividends and
acquisitions.
The improved free cash flow
is due to improved operating
profits coupled with a much
improved working capital
position.
Lonmin Costs – C1 Costs
of Own Production
07
0
3,000
2,000
1,000
5,000
7,000
6,000
4,000
8,000
08 09 10 11
Financial year
Rand per PGM oz produced
4,168
6,271
6,6306,773
7,534
7,534 Rand
per PGM ounce
Cost per unit is key to allowing
us to operate profitably for far
longer through any down
cycle. C1 costs are defined as
cash operating costs per
PGM ounce produced.
The illegal stoppage at Karee
impacted unit cost – we met
our revised guidance of an
11.2% increase in unit cost 
as momentum in production
was restored. [ 11 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Development –
Immediately Available 
Ore Reserves
07
0
1.0
0.5
2.0
2.5
1.5
3.0
08 09 10 11
Financial year
Centares (000,000’s)
2.0
1.7
2.0
2.7
2.9
2.9million
centares
We have placed a renewed
focus on mine development,
using a metric of immediately
available ore reserves in
square metres or centares.
In 2009 we changed our
reporting methodology for ore
reserve development, in line
with industry best practice, to
exclude partially developed ore
reserves. We have reported
on this basis since then. 
Our immediately available ore
reserves at our Marikana
operations were a remarkable
8.8% higher than last year.
This level of preparedness
allows us to plan our future
growth with confidence. 
Safety LTIFR – (Lost Time
Injury Frequency Rate)
07
0
4
2
8
10
6
12
08 09 10 11
Financial year
Per million hours worked
10.8
6.27
5.87
4.71
6.21
4.71incidents
per million man hours
As a Company we are
committed to Zero Harm 
to our employees and
contractors. We also regard
safety performance as a lead
indicator of the health of any
business. LTIFR is measured
per million man hours worked
and reflects all injuries
sustained by employees
which mean that the injured
party is unable to return to
work on the next shift.
Our safety performance
following the cluster of
fatalities mid year improved
and our LTIFR for 2011
showed a 19.8% annual
improvement.
PGM Instantaneous
Recovery Rate
07
0
20
60
80
40
100
08 09 10 11
Financial year
Recovery (%)
70.7
72.4
79.1
82.5
70.4
82.5%
recovery rate
The instantaneous recovery
rate is the product of the
recoveries achieved at each
step of the processing cycle
and measures the efficiencies
in the recovery of all metals.
We have seen consistent
improvements in our
instantaneous recovery rate,
as the rate increased to
82.5% as we continued to
focus on improved
efficiencies.
Energy Efficiency
4.5GJ
per PGM ounce
We continue to closely
monitor and measure our
energy usage and efficiency.
We are running a number of
initiatives across our
operations to ensure energy
efficiency levels are improved.
This year our total energy
consumption increased by
5.1% in 2011 to 6,533
Terajoules. However, our
energy per unit of production
has decreased by 11.1% 
from the 2007 baseline.
07
0
2
1
4
5
3
6
08 09 10 11
Financial year
Gigajoules per PGM oz
5.1
4.9
5.3
4.7
4.5 G o v e r n a n c e
G o v e r n a n c e
G o v e r n a n c e
G o v e r n a n c e
T r a n s f o r m a t i o n
S u s t a i n a b i l i t y
Marketing
Operations
Value Chain
Development
Exploration
Strategic
Relationships
Our People
Financial 
Strength & Control
Reserves 
& Resources
Strategic
Assets
[ 12 ]
Our Business Model
Generating value for shareholders.
We are one of a few mine-to-market
primary PGM producers.
Exploration
Our position on the Bushveld
Complex, the world’s largest
deposit of PGMs, means we have
significant resources to sustain our
current operations. We maintain a
modest international exploration
budget, operating largely in areas
of known prospectivity for PGMs. 
Mining
With 40 years’ expertise in mining
PGMs in South Africa, and having
pioneered large scale mining of our
preferred UG2 reef, we are able to
generate significant value from our
underground and opencast mining
operations.
Marketing
We have two long term
cornerstone customers in BASF
and Mitsubishi and we work with
them to deliver metals to them 
and other underlying customers.
Together with customers we
analyse market trends to inform
investment decisions.
We generate value for our shareholders by securing prospecting and mining
rights to areas which have PGM mineralisation, developing these areas into
resources and reserves leading to sustainable commercial production.
We enhance and secure the value we have created through long term
relationships with key customers, acquiring significant market intelligence
which informs future investment decisions. 
Processing
Having the large scale
commercialisation of the processing
and refining of UG2 reef and with
industry leading concentrating
skills, we add significant value
smelting and refining concentrates
to produce refined quality metals
and minerals for sale. [ 13 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Our Market Places
PGMs are used globally in a number of different market segments:
• Autocatalysts – the quest for a cleaner environment drives ever tightening emissions standards
sustaining demand for platinum, palladium and rhodium for the long term;
• Jewellery – platinum is seen as the ultimate jewellery metal – pure, rare and unchanging – and is
long established as the aspirant metal of choice in the bridal market;
• Industrial – platinum, palladium, rhodium, iridium and ruthenium are used in applications such 
as flat screen televisions, mobile phones, hard drives and catalysts in petroleum refineries; and
• Investment – demand is increasing, most especially for platinum and palladium, in the form of
investment in Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs).
                                                                                                                                                     Year ended          Year ended
                                                                                                                                                          30.09.11              30.09.10
US Dollar Prices                                                                                                                                        $/oz                     $/oz
Platinum                                                                                                          1,769            1,525
Palladium                                                                                                           752               448
Rhodium                                                                                                         2,145            2,308
PGM basket                                                                                                    1,299            1,139
Our Assets
Lonmin has substantial PGM resources, primarily in South Africa but also in Canada which will enable
us to mine for decades to come:
• Marikana Operations – our
flagship operation and currently
the source of 96% of our annual
production;
• Pandora Operations – a joint
venture in which we have a
42.5% interest which contributes
4% of our annual production;
• Marikana Smelter and Base
Metal Refinery and Brakpan
Precious Metal Refinery –
capacity to process and refine
our current and future
production, offering the potential
to smelt and refine third party
and recycling material;
• Limpopo Project – Shanduka is carrying out a study into reopening and developing the mine
which was placed on care and maintenance in 2009;
• Akanani Project – exploration and studies continue to develop a viable operation on this project
down dip of Anglo Platinum’s opencast Mogalakwena mine; and
• Canadian Sudbury Projects – joint ventures with Vale and Wallbridge exploring PGM
mineralisation in the Sudbury Basin with a pre-feasibility study on a modest open pit operation 
in progress.
Akanani
Limpopo
Loskop
Marikana
Pandora
Pretoria
Johannesburg [ 14 ]
Strategic Overview
A strategy that creates
wealth for stakeholders.
The world is likely to require stable and increasing quantities
of PGMs from quality suppliers for decades to come. We have
the experience and the know how to safely and sustainably
meet a significant portion of this demand from our large scale
prime PGM assets situated in the heart of South Africa’s
premier league on the Western and Northern Limbs of the
Bushveld Igneous Complex. 
We have built a team which understands how to operate and
deliver in the mining industry and the global PGM markets. 
We have developed a strategy to navigate these uncertain
times and we have the expertise and know how to safely 
and sustainably deliver our growth and cost control ambitions,
underpinned by sound technical planning.
⁄ [ 15 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
“We continue to believe that investing to
safely grow our production capacity will
enable us to take advantage of the
attractive long term fundamentals for the
PGM markets.”
Our four primary
Strategic Objectives Underpinned by six integrated foundations
Safety
Our quest is for zero harm and
becoming the safest primary 
PGM producer.
Culture and Values
Create a culture based on our values of:
• Zero Harm;
• Integrity, Honesty & Trust;
• Transparency;
• Respect for Each Other;
• High Performance; and
• Employee Self-Worth.
Market Intelligence 
Understand the global economy and the PGM market supply and demand
fundamentals is to ensure sound and informed decision making.
Productivity
Underpinned by sound technical competence which is critical to achieving our safety,
growth and cost targets.
Transformation
Ongoing commitment to achieving the Mining Charter targets on ownership,
procurement and employment equity.
Sustainability
An integrated approach to safety, health, the environment, community development,
and employee relations, as well as attracting, developing and retaining scarce skills are
critical to sustaining our operations.
Communications
Effective communication with all stakeholders, celebrating successes and managing
relationships.
Growth
Focus on stable, sustainable
growth from our core Marikana
operations and grow our other
assets from this base.
Cost Management 
Move down the industry cost
curve into the lower half.
Balance Sheet Capacity 
Maintain modest net debt to
support growth while retaining
stability and flexibility.
⁄ [ 16 ]
Transformation
The Context we Operate in
The South African Government is working hard to
reverse the legacy of apartheid and to reverse
inequality, normalise wealth distribution and create
opportunity for HDSAs. This process is known as BEE
or “Transformation”.
Major businesses operating in South Africa have an
important responsibility for helping to deliver this
change within their spheres of influence. The mining
industry, as one of South Africa’s key economic
drivers and major employers, has an especially
significant role to play.
Lonmin endorses this initiative and during the year the
Board constituted a Transformation Committee under
the chairmanship of Cyril Ramaphosa, a Non-
executive Director and former Secretary-General of
the ANC, to oversee our response. 
The Mining Charter
Originally issued in October 2002 the Charter creates
a statutory framework which formalises the mining
industry’s transformation responsibilities.
During 2009-2010, the government and industry
stakeholders reviewed the Charter, leading to a revised
version being published in September 2010, alongside
a new Scorecard.
The Imperatives of Transformation – why it matters
Our licence to operate in South Africa depends on our
transformation performance. This is both a legal
obligation – our mining licences are conditional on
delivery of our Social and Labour Plan (SLP)
commitments – and a moral responsibility to
recognise and do what we can in supporting the
wider goals of the country.
It is equally true that the very inequality these initiatives
are designed to combat can best be addressed by
building a strong, stable and economically vibrant
South Africa, supported by sustainable economic
growth. That depends on reliable long term investment
by companies such as ours, itself dependent on security
of tenure on which that investment can be built.
Some of our targets will be readily achievable but we
cannot overstate the challenge the industry faces in
achieving some of the 2014 goals outlined in the Charter,
not least when many are dependent on historical issues
around educational access for HDSAs being resolved.
The cost associated with implementing what is
effectively social transformation is not easily quantifiable.
The mining industry is important for South Africa’s
GDP and as the country positions itself to attract
investment for growth and job creation, remaining
competitive will be equally important.
We have a clear plan which outlines our actions and
targets be they legislation or internally driven. We will
strive to achieve all its goals and will openly and
honestly monitor our progress against it.
Our Goals
We have six headline transformation targets, as well
as a number of subsidiary ones, which are linked to
our Social and Labour Plan commitments to the
South African Government:
1. Equity – Achieve 26% equity ownership in Lonmin
(or equivalent units of production) by HDSAs by
September 2014;
2. HDSAs – Increase the participation of employees
from designated groups within each level of
management to at least 40% by 30 September
2014;
3. Women in Mining – Increase female participation
at the mine by 10% by 30 September 2014 (from
2010 as base year);
4. Housing – Work towards individual and family
accommodation for staff, moving away from
hostel systems;
5. Procurement – To meet the charter targets of our
total discretionary spend with HDSA suppliers by
30 September 2014; and 
6. Communities – Improve the quality of life for
employees and their communities around our
operations.
We are committed to transformation. These issues are core to
the continued success and growth of our business and are a
fundamental element of our licence to operate. [ 17 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Our progress so far
The following table shows the progress we have made and our goals.
Lonmin Transformation Scorecard
                                                                                                                         FY11 Actual         FY11 Target         FY12 Target         FY14 Target
Ownership                                                                                   18%              18%              18%              26%
HDSA in management (excl. white women)                                 32%            185%              35%              40%
HDSA in management (incl. white women)                                  47%              48%              50%*             60%*
Women in mining                                                                        4.3%             4.4%             4.9%              10%
Hostel conversion – blocks completed                                           26                 26                 21            100%
Community spend (Rm)                                                                  42                 44                 70               164
Human Resources Development – % of payroll                          3.8%             3.5%             4.5%                5%
Number of ABET trainees                                                             601               823               823            3,292
Number of learnerships                                                                184               276               211               406
Number of bursaries per annum                                                     44                 43               100               100
Number of sponsorships per annum                                               30                 27                 40                 46
Number of graduates in development programme per annum            29                 29                 36                 34
Number of portable skills learners                                                   57                 55               213               424
BEE procurement spend – Capital                                               28%              10%              35%              40%
BEE procurement spend – Material                                             41%              15%              50%              50%
BEE procurement spend – Services                                            48%              40%              70%              70%
* Overall HDSA in management (including white women) based on projected headcount. Regulatory requirement is 40% per
management level.
Equity
Shanduka is our BEE partner through the Incwala Resources (Pty) Limited (Incwala) structure with representation
on our Board and Exco and an 18% equity interest in Western Platinum Limited (WPL) and Eastern Platinum
Limited (EPL). We are committed to exploring ways that will ensure that we achieve our remaining BEE credit
targets by 2014.
At the end of the year, we reached an agreement with Shanduka on Limpopo. The proposed transaction gives
Shanduka the opportunity to gain a controlling equity interest in Limpopo and become a PGM mining and
operating company, in line with DMR objectives. Ultimately, it gives Shanduka the opportunity to manage and
operate the Limpopo division.
As part of Shanduka’s acquisition of 50.03% of Incwala in 2010 Shanduka acquired the Lonmin Employee
Masakhane Trust’s (LEMT), which Lonmin was instrumental in setting up, shares in Incwala and in each of the
Cornerstone Investors in Incwala. During the course of 2011 the proceeds of the sale of the LEMT’s shares were
released from escrow resulting in the payment of around R199 million to almost 22,000 qualifying current and
previous Lonmin employees – a triumph for sustainable broad based BEE.
It is envisaged that our requirement for further credits will include broad based community and employee share
schemes. [ 18 ]
Transformation (continued)
HDSAs and Human Resources Development (HRD)
It is imperative that we attract, develop and retain a
skilled workforce and foster diversity, providing a work
environment that enables our employees to reach their
potential and add value to the Company. 
Our success depends on our ability to address the
legacy of inequality in South Africa by providing our
HDSA employees with developmental opportunities
and attracting, developing and retaining the best
talent at every level.
In 2011 we spent approximately $29 million on HRD
programmes, including the training of our employees,
Adult Basic Education Training (ABET) and investing in
the education of young people in the Greater Lonmin
Communities (GLC). 
Our recruitment policy gives preference to HDSA
candidates and among our permanent employees in
management positions and including white women,
46.5% are categorised as HDSAs, up from 43.3%.
We have also introduced a bonus metric in the
Lonmin Corporate scorecard to accelerate HDSA
employment in management positions and are on
track for our 2014 targets.
Women in Mining (WiM)
We continue to target WiM, believing it to be a key
challenge.
In 2011 we recruited 473 women of whom twenty
joined our management team. We employ 2,073
women, representing 7.46% of our employees with
approximately 52% of those (1,071) working in core
operations. 
We believe it to be beneficial for our wider
transformation goals to set a target of increasing female
participation at the mine to 10% by 30 September
2014. Nonetheless, this is an area in which we face
both historical and cultural difficulties, not least in
making underground work appealing to women,
something which has not always been easy.
We are targeting women for our mining related skills
programme. This year 109 women participated, 40 of
whom have now been employed as miners at Lonmin.
We are also providing women with fitness programmes
to help strengthen their upper body, to minimise the
risk of them failing the crucial mining fitness tests. 
Housing
The critical shortage of affordable housing is one of
South Africa’s major challenges, at both a regional
and national level, and requires the cooperation of
both government and the private sector. It is also a
major challenge for the mining industry generally,
involving changes to historical practices like hostel
accommodation.
We estimate that approximately 50% of people living
in a fifteen kilometre radius of our operations are
housed in informal dwellings with little or no access to
basic services, and suspect that this will include a
significant number of our employees.
The Lonmin human settlement strategy consists of
three elements: hostel conversion, the existing Marikana
Housing and the long term housing programme.
We are committed to converting and upgrading our
four hostels to achieve the occupancy rate of one
person per room as well as converting and upgrading
some into family units and we plan to have converted
our hostel space into a cumulative total of 2,790 units
(824 family and 1,966 single) by 2014. 
In 2011 we met our target converting 26 hostel blocks
into 542 bachelor and 104 family units and saw 179
employees become owners of homes which were
sold through the Marikana Housing Development
Company.
We missed our 2011 target for building affordable
employee houses, but have completed 1,728 properties
to date. The provision of mass affordable housing
however will remain a major challenge.
Procurement
Lonmin has made excellent progress in this area, both
in terms of our targets and in terms of a sector leading
long term approach.
Many local HDSA run companies do not have the
experience or resources to meet our business needs
so supplier development is an integral part of our
preferential procurement strategy.
We have made good progress and have met our
HDSA procurement targets for the year. 
Women in Mining
We are targetting women for our mining related skills
programme. This year 109 women participated and
40 have been employed as miners at Lonmin. [ 19 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Communities and Stakeholders
A successful and profitable Lonmin should also
benefit our employees, their families, the communities
in which they live and be for the wider benefit of South
Africa.
One of many ways we engage with our stakeholders
is through the recently introduced Annual Stakeholder
Forum which provides an engagement opportunity
and forms part of our more structured approach to
stakeholder engagement. 
We have also established a Bapo Ba Mogale
Development Team to identify job creation opportunities
and we continue to support a number of projects in
the Greater Lonmin Community (GLC).
In a country changing as fast as South Africa, and one
which is on a journey from such a difficult place in
terms of its social and economic heritage, community
relations must be key to achieving that change. Trust
needs to be built, not taken for granted, and we are
striving to achieve that for the benefit of all our
stakeholders, as well as the Company itself.
In Summary
Lonmin is on a transformation journey, which is one
we welcome and to which we are fully committed. It’s
the right thing for our business as well for the country.
Some things will be straightforward, others less so.
Our assessment of the Mining Charter Scorecard at
30 September 2011 is shown on page 44. 
In the graphic below we illustrate how we have used
the cash received from selling our metals in 2011. Of
every $1 we received, we spent 81 cents in South
Africa, including tax paid to SARS. The return to
Lonmin’s shareholders amounted to only one cent per
Dollar, on this basis.
Housing
In 2011 we met our target converting 26 hostel 
blocks into 542 bachelor and 104 family units and 
179 employees became home owners.
Community
Communication with our communities and
stakeholders is key. We have established a Bapo
development team to identify job creation
opportunities and have introduced an annual
Stakeholder Forum.
People (employee pay and investment in communities) 36%
South African suppliers 26%
Overseas suppliers 3%
South African government 2%
Reinvestment – spent with South African suppliers 17%
Reinvestment – spent with overseas suppliers 2%
Debt repaid 11%
Interest paid on loans 2%
Dividends to shareholders 1%
Money spent in South Africa (81%)
Money spent outside South Africa (5%)
Other (14%)
Distribution of cash received from selling 
our metals in 2011 [ 20 ]
Operational Review
Building Capacity for Growth.
Operationally, 2011 has been an encouraging year in which 
we have reaped the benefits of the operational turnaround 
we undertook in 2009 and 2010.
Safety
We have historically been proud of the progress we have made in making our working
environment safer and in the leading position in safety that we have occupied within the
industry. The entire team is therefore very disappointed and saddened by the six fatalities
experienced in the 2011 financial year. 
The incidents were examined using our standard Incident Cause Analysis Methodology
(ICAM) process and we spent a great deal of time trying to understand the failures and root
causes. Across the six incidents, there are few, if any, common factors. While four of those
fatally injured were contractors, the location, nature of the incident and the root causes
were different in all six cases. In fact, the only common theme was that the deaths all resulted
from known hazards, for which there are well established protocol and risk mitigation
processes, however, some of these were not adhered to as a result of unsafe behaviour.
Lonmin mining operations have introduced varied and far reaching remedial measures
following the fatalities that occurred pertaining to Fall of Ground, Trucks and Tramming,
Engulfment, Caught in Between, Scraping and Rigging. In addition, workplace stoppages
were instituted in response to conditions believed to be unsafe, together with self-initiated
mine wide production stoppages instituted by management on 30 March and 14 April 2011
to reinforce the importance of safety following two of the fatal accidents. 
Our commitment to zero harm and safe production in our work place remains undiminished
and we achieved four million fatality free shifts across all Lonmin operations at the end of
September 2011 (only the second time in Lonmin’s history that this milestone has been
achieved). We believe that our fundamental approach to safety management remains
sound, however, we continue to learn from the root causes of each incident. The LTIFR for
the financial year was 4.71 and over the past three years the LTIFR has improved by 33%. 
Rowland shaft leads in the industry with an achievement of twelve million fall of ground fatal
free shifts. This remarkable achievement took ten years to accumulate. Another exceptional
performance to note was 4B shaft achieving 4.6 million fatality free shifts.
The processes and procedures for safe production remain sound and, in consultation with
our union leadership and the DMR, we are reinvigorating our efforts to re-assert our industry
leading position. We believe that, together with our stakeholders and the working groups
that have been established, this will lead to the entrenchment of sound leadership, an
enabling environment, simple systems, a positive safety culture and improved contractor
safety management. 
⁄
Safety
Our commitment to zero harm and safe production
remains undiminished. We have introduced varied and
far reaching remedial measures following the fatalities
earlier in the year. [ 21 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
07
0
3
6
9
12
15
08 09 10 11
Financial year
millions
Marikana UG
Marikana OC
JV OC Limpopo
JV UG
14.0
12.4
10.8
11.3 11.7
11.2 10.2 10.2 10.8 10.9
Total Tonnes Mined – Annual Trend
Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Aug Sep
600
700
800
900
1,000
1,200
1,100
Jul
000’s
FY11
FY10
Total Tonnes Mined – Monthly Trend
Mining Division
During the 2011 financial year, the Mining Division
demonstrated continued growth despite the impact 
of the illegal industrial action encountered at the 
Karee operations during May as well as the safety
stoppages. Total tonnes mined during the 2011
financial year were 11.7 million, a 0.4 million tonne
increase from 2010. 
This is largely attributable to improvements at K3 shaft
and the ramp up in production from our Merensky
opencast operations. Momentum has been 
re-established following the strike in May.
Marikana Ore Reserves:
FY11 FY10
(’000 m
2
) (’000 m
2
) Variance %
Karee 1,437 1,154 283 25%
Middelkraal 385 354 31 9%
Westerns 533 702 (169) (24)%
Easterns 
(including JV) 576 483 93 19%
Total 2,931 2,693 238 9%
It is pleasing to note that the ore reserve position has
increased by 9% from the level reported in 2010. The
ore reserve increase for Karee of 25%, Middelkraal of
9% and Easterns of 19% support Lonmin’s growth
build up towards the 950,000 Platinum ounces. The
Westerns operations decreased as planned.
Mining grades reduced in comparison to 2010 due to:
• an overall reduction in the in situ grade;
• increased development to support the ramp up in
production, poor ground conditions at K3;
• increased dilution necessitated for safety reasons
while mining through geologically disturbed
ground conditions; and
• an increase in the proportion of underground
Merensky and of lower grade opencast Merensky
ore. 
Grades, however, remain within the acceptable range.
⁄
Mining Performance
The Mining division demonstrated continued growth
despite the impact of the illegal industrial action at
Karee and the safety stoppages.
K3
Output from K3 increased by 10% from 2010 and the
shaft’s safety performance improved. We invested
further capital in the development of ore reserves and
we expect K3 to contribute around 20 to 30% of our
underground production in 2012. [ 22 ]
Operational Review (continued)
Q1
09
Q1
10
Q1
11
Q2
09
Q2
10
Q2
11
Q3
09
Q3
10
Q3
11
Q4
09
Q4
10
Q4
11
0
1,000
500
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,500
3,000
kt
Karee
Westerns
Easterns
S54 & other MISS
Middelkraal
Marikana UG Production
Overview of Marikana Mines
K3
4B/1B
Rowland
Newman
E1
E2
E3
Saffy
Hossy
Average
0
200
100
300
400
500
800
700
600
Rand per Tonne – Excluding Central Cost Allocation
Initiatives
Progress has been made on a number of initiatives
launched over the past years to ensure improved
delivery and increased productivity in the Mining
Division. These include:
• finalisation of incentive programmes for our
productive employees including supervision to
increase the element of variable pay;
• improved long and short term planning systems
are entrenched and have been enhanced to
enable the evaluation of different production
scenarios at short notice;
• design of fit for purpose cost and management
systems have been completed and are scheduled
to be rolled out to all operations during the course
of 2012;
• the “Line of Sight” management system to track
production on a daily basis has been embedded
in all the operations and is starting to bear fruit 
in allowing early identification of technical
bottlenecks, lost blast analysis and improved
productivity; and
• relationships with the unions and DMR improved
and continue to be enhanced as a result of
various management actions, such as the safety
initiatives, that were driven through the year.
The inflationary cost pressures being experienced by
the industry are of great concern to management and
various productivity improvement programmes such
as team effectiveness development, technical up
skilling of employees, face advance and blast
frequency improvement projects, have been identified
and are scheduled for implementation in 2012 to
mitigate these pressures.
Karee
In 2011 the Karee operations, K3,1B, 4B and K4,
mined 4.4 million tonnes which represents an increase
of 0.3 million tonnes from 2010. This is a result of the
flexibility created by an improvement in ore reserves 
at K3 resulting in a better than anticipated ramp up
following the industrial action during May of this year. [ 23 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Going forward management is confident that the
improved momentum will continue and result in the
planned increase from the Karee operations. The
mining grade has decreased as a result of increased
dilution associated with split reef and increased
stoping widths for safety reasons. Unit cost per tonne
increased by 6.8% to R573 and was negatively
impacted by the high fixed cost base during the strike.
Westerns
Production from our Westerns operations, Rowland
and Newman, at 3.4 million tonnes declined by 0.3
million tonnes on 2010 as expected with the depletion
of Newman shaft. Additional dilution from the roof
bolting in the stoping horizon, necessitated by safety
concerns, together with a drop in the in situ grade had
a negative impact on the head grade. The reduced
production resulted in the unit cost per tonne
increasing by 14.3% to R542 per tonne.
Middelkraal
The production from our mechanised and hybrid
shafts at Middelkraal, Saffy and Hossy, was largely flat
at 1.9 million tonnes per year. Grade was negatively
impacted by the higher ratio of development ore
versus stoping production. Unit cost per tonne
increased to R739 per tonne or 17.5% whilst the
operations struggled to meet increased production
targets.
Saffy’s production was significantly impacted during
2011 by adverse ground conditions. The production
delays experienced during the year have largely been
addressed by means of changes in layout designs as
well as a revision to the support strategy. The increase
in face length availability resulting from the change in
layout and the build up of stoping crews have resulted
in this shaft having the necessary flexibility to achieve
planned production increases in 2012. 
Good progress was made at Hossy during the year.
However, the biggest challenges that continue to be
faced by the mechanised mining team centre around
machine reliability, the availability of replacement parts
and the supply of trained artisans. Whilst we have
ongoing programmes to address these issues a
decision has been taken to introduce hybrid mining in
some upper quadrants, to reduce the risk to production.
Easterns
Although this is a small section of our business our
Easterns operations, E1, E2, and E3, performed
exceptionally well with production increasing by 8.4%
in comparison to 2010 supported by the healthy
position of the ore reserve. The mining grade from
stoping operations improved, however, this was offset
by increased ore from development evident from the
improved ore reserve position. Cost per tonne was
contained to increase by only 6.1% to R577 per tonne.
Opencast
The Merensky opencast operation at Marikana included
a full year of production in 2011 compared to around
six months of production in 2010. Although the grade
was below expectations during most of the year the
change in the mining method and sequencing
introduced in the last quarter have resulted in improved
grades being achieved.
Future growth from our underground operations will
be generated from our Karee and Middelkraal mines
as the K4 shaft continues to ramp up over the next
few years.
Pandora Joint Venture
2011 2010 Variance
Attributable production 
(’000 tonnes) 168 166 1.2%
Saleable metals in 
concentrate 
(’000 oz PGMs) 48,199 49,345 (2.3)%
Profit after tax $8m $5m 60%
The extension of the current Pandora underground
operation which will give access to two additional
levels, extending the life of E3 shaft to 2029 is in
execution phase. The capital project is currently ahead
of schedule and has performed well.
The feasibility study on the 180,000 tonnes per month
project has undergone review of the different
components of the study and is ongoing.
Hossy
We are introducing an element of hybrid mining 
to some of the mine areas to mitigate the risk 
to production.
Mining
Our K3, K4, Saffy and Hossy shafts drive our 
growth ambitions. [ 24 ]
Operational Review (continued)
Process Division
Safety remains a primary focus across the Process
Division and this has been evident in the 30% year on
year improvement in the LTIFR. This is based on a
strategy of proactive measures that includes focusing
on the lessons we learn through incidents that do not
lead to injury. 
The Process Division refined production of 731,273
ounces of Platinum compared to 685,365 ounces in
2010. This represents an increase of 6.7% due to
improved availability of our smelting operations. The
re-design of the Number One furnace has resulted in
significant operational improvements. Recovery
improvements over the past years have continued
across each of our operations. Unit costs were well
controlled with the year on year increase being limited
to below inflationary levels.
Unit costs
2011 2010 Variance
Processing R830/oz R809/oz (2.6)%
Concentrators
Another exceptional performance throughout the year
was recorded at the concentrators with concentrator
recovery rates improving to 85.3%, and higher plant
running times.
Plant running times continued to improve during 
2011 and the overall concentrator running time has
increased to 91.4% in 2011 from 87.4% in 2010. The
concentrators are targeting a 0.5% uplift in running
time per year until the running times achieved in the
period from 2003 to 2005 (93.5% overall for the
concentrators) are realised.
Similar to the mining grade the milled grade was
slightly lower than the previous year but well within 
the targeted range of 4.40 grammes per tonne to 
4.80 grammes per tonne. 
⁄
07
79
80
83
82
81
84
85
86
08 09 10 11
Financial year
80.7
81.7
81.0
84.8
85.4
Underground Concentrator Recoveries
Q1
FY11
Q2
FY11
Q3
FY11
Q4
FY11
FY
10
FY
11
4.2
4.3
4.6
4.5
4.4
4.7
4.8
4.9
Target grade range
g/t
Underground Milled Grade
Concentrators
Concentrator recovery rates improved for another year
to 85.3% from 84.7% in 2010 and plant running times
improved from 87.4% in 2010 to 91.4% in 2011. [ 25 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Tailing Treatment and Chrome Plants
Achievements during the year include the new chrome
extraction plants commissioned by Xstrata and
ChromTech as follows:
• Rowland chrome plant was commissioned by
Xstrata in April 2011;
• Rowland tailing treatment plant was
commissioned in August 2011;
• K4 chrome plant was commissioned by Xstrata 
in May 2011;
• Karee B chrome plant was commissioned by
ChromTech in July 2011; and
• Easterns tailing treatment plant is due to be
commissioned in early 2012.
The chrome plants have resulted in chrome sales of
around 730,000 tonnes in 2011 and these are
anticipated to increase substantially in 2012 as the
plants will be online for a full year.
A tailings treatment plant that will re-treat tailings from
the chrome plants to recover additional PGMs is
under construction and will be commissioned in early
2012. The recovery of PGMs from these specific
plants is anticipated to improve by up to 2% in 2012.
Smelter
The planned rebuild and modification of the Number 
One furnace was well executed and successfully 
re-commissioned on schedule in December 2010.
Over the past year the new design and operational
discipline of the Number One furnace has proven to
be more robust, with no operational disruption to
report. The furnace has been ramped up to operate
consistently at the desired power for operational
requirements. The use of the Number One furnace
combined with the Pyromet furnaces has ensured that
the excess stockpiles have been depleted. Tonnes
smelted increased by 15.5% in 2011.
Progress continues with the building of the Number
Two furnace on the site of the old Merensky furnace.
We are on schedule for the furnace to be cold
commissioned in March 2012 and fully commissioned
and operational by the end of May 2012.
Refineries
’000 oz 2011 2010 Variance
Platinum 731 685 6.7%
PGMs 1,447 1,315 10.0%
Recoveries at our Base Metal and Precious Metal
Refineries remain a key focus and we continue to see
sustained improvements in efficiencies for the
recovery of all metals with instantaneous recovery
rates at the refineries increasing to 82.5% in 2011, 
up from 79.1% in 2010.
Refined production of PGMs increased by 10.0% 
and was greater than the 6.7% increase in refined
production of Platinum. This was as a result of the
other Platinum metals returned from toll refining in the
first quarter of 2011 for which the associated Platinum
ounces were returned in September 2010.
Overall the performance of the Process Division was
excellent and we expect this to continue.
Sales
Platinum sales ’000 2011 2010 Variance
Refined metal 721oz 681oz 5.8%
Concentrate – 25oz (100.0)%
Total sales 721oz 706oz 2.1%
Final metal sales for 2011 were 720,783 which was in
line with our sales guidance.
Refineries
We have continued to see sustained improvements 
in efficiencies for the recovery of our metals, and the
instantaneous recovery rates at our refineries is 
now 82.5%.
Smelter
Over the past year the new design and operational
discipline of the Number One furnace has proven 
to be more robust, with no operational disruptions 
to report. [ 26 ]
Capital Expenditure
Capital expenditure to support the future growth of
the business was $410 million in the 2011 financial
year. Expenditure in 2012 is planned at around $450
million to continue developing sufficient ore reserves
to attain long term production of 950,000 ounces of
Platinum per year.
Mining Division: Capital expenditure during 2011 
was $268 million, the majority of which was spent on
developing the ore reserves at K4, Saffy, Hossy and K3.
Process Division: Capital expenditure during 2011
was $142 million with the main areas of spend being
the Number Two furnace and the Easterns tailing
treatment plant.
Unit Costs
In line with the industry, Lonmin experienced
continued inflationary pressures with above CPI
increases in wage settlements of around 8% and
power costs escalating around 24%.
The production losses associated with the industrial
unrests during May together with the self-regulated
mine wide production stoppages instituted by
management, increased opencast production and the
lower underground grade resulted in the C1 unit cost
increasing by 11.2%.
Discounting the effect of the two set backs (strike and
two day safety stoppages), the unit cost increase
would have been around 8.0% which reflects
Lonmin’s continued focus on rigorous cost controls. 
Operational Review (continued)
⁄
⁄
07
0
100
300
200
400
08 09 10 11
Financial year
$m
276
378
234
268
410
Capital Expenditure
FY10
Escalation
(1)
Opencast
(2)
UG grade
Recovery / volumes
Production costs
(3)
FY11
Strike & safety stoppages
(4)
FY11 normalised
6,000
7,000
6,500
7,500
8,000
8,500
R/oz
6,773
Increase +11.2%
Increase +8.0%
7,533
7,312
C1 Cost per PGM Ounce Produced
Footnotes:
(1) Escalation represents inflation and above inflationary increase in wages,
power and water.
(2) Opencast: 2011 included a full year of higher cost opencast production
compared to six months in 2010.
(3) Costs increases excluding the impact of escalation.
(4) Safety stoppages represent the two one day management induced
safety stoppages across all operations. [ 27 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Business Development
Limpopo
There was no production from the Baobab shaft at
Limpopo during the year as this shaft continued on
care and maintenance. 
At the end of September 2011, we entered into an
agreement with Shanduka with regard to our Limpopo
division. In terms of the agreement, Shanduka will
carry out a feasibility review to assess the viability of
operating and developing the Limpopo operations.
Based on the successful outcome of the feasibility
review, and the fulfilment of certain conditions
precedent, including Shanduka raising and
contributing R1.1 billion in funding towards the ramp
up and development of the operations, Shanduka 
will be entitled to acquire control and operational
management of the operating entity, Messina 
Platinum Mines Ltd (MPML). 
In addition, post completion of the transaction,
Lonmin will be entitled to receive an amount of R400
million from MPML by way of subscription for
preference shares in MPML or other such mechanism
as may be agreed.
The transaction further strengthens our partnership
with Shanduka and on completion will transform
MPML into a BEE controlled and operated PGMs
mining company. Additionally, we believe that this
transaction will contribute to meeting the Mining
Charter Phase Two equity target of 26% by 2014. The
provision of capital by Shanduka will enable us to
retain our balance sheet capacity and management
focus on growth from our Marikana operations.
Akanani
We are enhancing our mining and processing studies
on this project and will make a decision in 2012 on
further development.
BEE Equity Ownership
During the year we submitted a Concept Paper to 
the DMR setting out possible concepts to achieving
compliance with the Phase Two 2014 requirements 
of the Mining Charter. Our ideas include selling 
down our shareholding in Incwala, renewed equity
participation of our employees, further participation 
of our communities and the Shanduka Limpopo
transaction outlined above.
As part of Shanduka’s acquisition of 50.03% of
Incwala, which was completed during the 2010
financial year and was dealt with in more detail in our
2010 Annual Report, Shanduka acquired the LEMT,
(which Lonmin was instrumental in setting up) shares
in Incwala and in each of the Cornerstone Investors in
Incwala. During the course of 2011 the proceeds of
the sale of the LEMT’s shares were released from
escrow resulting in the payment of around R199
million to almost 22,000 qualifying current and
previous Lonmin employees – a triumph for
sustainable broad based BEE.
Exploration 
International
Joint ventures (JVs) with Vale S.A. and Wallbridge
Mining in Canada to explore for PGM-Copper footwall
deposits on thirteen properties around the Sudbury
Basin are progressing. On our Vale JV, we announced
the first PGM resource on the Denison property 
which has higher Platinum to Palladium ratio than
usual in Sudbury. The JV has appointed Wardrop
Tetra Tech to complete a prefeasibility study for a
potential open pit on this mineralisation, which is due
for completion in early 2012. Exploration mapping,
geophysical surveys and drilling were carried out
around the Sudbury Basin and generated targets for
follow up in the coming year. Lonmin has options to
enter into a further JV with Wallbridge in 2012 on its
North Range properties which are prospective for
PGM mineralisation associated with offset dykes and
the footwall style of mineralisation.
Drilling has recently commenced in Northern Ireland
on targets derived from geophysical and geochemical
surveys carried out in the previous year. 
South Africa
WPL is carrying out exploration activities on
Vlakfontein, near the Pilanesberg Complex and has a
JV with Boynton.
⁄
Unit Costs
Discounting the effect of the two set backs of strikes
and two day safety stoppages the unit cost increase
would have been around 8% and reflects Lonmin’s
continued focus on rigorous cost controls.
Around $450 million capital spend for
2012, subject to Rand strength
We will continue to carefully balance the need to
invest in growth capacity ahead of an upturn in
demand, whilst remaining focused on maintaining
strong financial discipline. [ 28 ]
Legal
Associated Minerals
Developments in the Keysha matter have been slow
and a decision is still awaited from the Director-General
(DG) on the appeal against the award of a prospecting
right to Keysha. After all internal DMR procedures have
been exhausted and in the absence of a decision
favourable to Lonmin, the matter would proceed to
court for review. The merits of a compensation claim
being lodged by Lonmin on the basis of expropriation
continue to be assessed, as does the merits of lodging
a claim against a former Lonmin Director for breach of
statutory and common law duties.
Market Review
Overview
The short term will undoubtedly be challenging, however,
medium and long term fundamentals remain intact
and healthy. Tightening emission legislation, growth in
non-road emissions control systems and anticipated
growth in the diesel engine market share, bode well
for the demand side while supply particularly from
South Africa remains constrained. The medium term
outlook is looking positive and the longer term view is
even better, with stationary fuel cells promising strong
growth potential and ultimately the possibility of the
automotive drive train evolving from internal
combustion to fuel cell driven solutions. 
PGM Prices
The gains in the US Dollar basket price during the first
quarter of the year were eroded following the turmoil
and volatility that ensued from the earthquake in Japan
in the second quarter. Prices since then trended
sideways to down following deepening sovereign debt
concerns in Europe, debt default scares, credit risk
downgrades, rumours of Chinese growth slowing and
slow recovery in Japan. The Rand basket was under
downward pressure in the six month period from
March to July, but Rand weakness in the final quarter
brought some relief.
During the first half of the 2011 financial year, platinum
prices rose 6% from $1,679 per ounce to $1,773 per
ounce averaging $1,744 per ounce. Platinum prices
averaged $1,778 per ounce in the second half of the
financial year, a rise of 2% on the first half average.
⁄
Operational Review (continued)
1,200
1,300
1,350
1,400
1,450
1,250
1,500
1,550
1,600
9,000
9,500
10,000
10,500
11,000
11,500
12,000
$/oz
Rand/oz
US dollar
Rand Source: I-Net
Oct Jan Apr Sep Jul
Lonmin Basket Price
Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Aug Sep
200
400
600
800
Jul
2011
2010 Average US$ 444 | 2011 Average US$ 746 |   68%
2010
$/oz
Source: I-Net
Palladium Prices
Markets
The PGM industry will not be insulated from the short
term slow down in markets, however medium and
long term fundamentals remain intact and healthy. [ 29 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Aug Sep
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
Jul
2011
2010 Average US$2,420 | 2011 Average US$2,208 |   -8.8%
2010
Source: I-Net
$/oz
Rhodium Prices
Source: SFA (Oxford) 2010
5.8%
3.9%
2.8%
0.6%
4.7%
49.2%
3.2%
3.1%
26.7%
Electrical
Chemical
Petroleum
Jewellery
Automotive
Off-road 
engines
Other
Medical and 
Biomedical
Glass
Platinum Demand by Industry
Palladium price growth continued to outperform
platinum on the back of firm supply and demand
fundamentals, with palladium dominating the gasoline
engine auto catalyst market in North America and
China. ETFs were another source of demand in the
first half of the period whilst rumours persist that the
Russian stockpiles are close to depletion.
Rhodium has traded down with some autocatalyst
manufacturers and Original Equipment Manufacturers
(OEMs) well stocked after having stocks of metal for
future requirements. Not even the launch of a new ETF
by Deutsche Bank in May could arrest the price fall.
Demand
Automotive 
The increasing need to manage engine emissions will
remain the key driver of demand with more types of
engines starting to fall into the legislative net. Other
areas of growth such as fuel cells, both stationary and
those used in vehicles, continue to gather momentum.
Electric and hybrid power trains may increase in
market share over coming years but are likely to be
transition or bridge technologies and remain unlikely 
to become a significant market segment in terms of
vehicle units in the next decade. 
Non-road diesel remains a strong new market for
platinum, with only Europe and the US covered by
legislation at this stage, accounting for approximately
a fifth of the world’s non-road vehicle fleet. China and
India are expected to follow in 2015/16 and other
emerging countries after that. Estimates of on-road
heavy duty diesel vehicles have been upgraded, due
to stronger than expected orders. This is driven by
new Tier VI emission legislation coming in 2014 and
some retro fitting. 
Diesels in Europe are back above 50% market share.
The US also showed growth in diesel market share
and is expected to increase from around 3% currently,
to slightly more than double this figure by 2017.
Automotive Demand
The long term outlook for PGMs use in the auto
sector is positive. Non-road diesel remains a strong
new market for platinum with only Europe and the 
US covered by legislation at this stage.
PGM Long Term Outlook
We believe the PGM price recovery is a matter of
when and not if. Our policy of building flexibility into
our business model will position us to benefit when
markets recover. [ 30 ]
Jewellery
We have seen sales in China, the world’s largest
jewellery market, increase by more than 10% year on
year (800,000 ounces up to September 2011) despite
the Dollar platinum price on average being 13% higher
this year compared to 2010. Record high gold prices
and the strong price increase in palladium, used in
competing white gold, contributed to platinum
appearing more affordable in relative terms. 
Investment 
Growth in the investment market slowed this year.
There were some redemptions in the platinum market
in the middle of the year and in the last month of the
2011 financial year, but overall investors have been
adding to their ETFs holdings. Overall, platinum ETF
holdings increased and are still close to record levels.
Following a strong performance in Lonmin’s first half,
the palladium market has seen consistent redemptions
since March, resulting in a net drawdown for this year.
Our long term view for this demand category is that it
will remain a modest net consumer over time.
Outlook
South African supply side challenges remain largely
unchanged whilst some aspects are amplified due to
social pressures. Deeper mines, lower grades, skill
shortages and power and water supply challenges 
all remain. 
A further deterrent to investment has been the widely
broadcast debate on nationalisation. Incidents of
social and labour unrest place additional strain in an
industry that has to compete for capital to deliver the
supply required to match future demand.
The strength of the Rand and inflationary pressures
continue to squeeze operating margins and cash
flows. These factors not only provide an underpin to
metal prices, but may also leave the market in deficit 
if demand picks up more strongly than anticipated.
Consequently we will continue to carefully balance the
need to invest in growth capacity ahead of an upturn
in demand whilst at the same time remaining focused
on maintaining strong financial discipline.
Our outlook for 2012 has been reviewed with demand
for platinum now expected to be lower than previously
estimated. Our previously estimated small deficit has
now changed to a balanced or modestly oversupplied
market for the calendar year.
However, we believe that most companies in our end
user markets, for example the auto industry, have
strong balance sheets and are financially more robust
than they were in 2009. They will be able to weather
the potential slowdown much better and we also
expect the market rebound to be strong when it
occurs due to pent-up demand, with markets
expected to recover from 2013 onwards.
Operational Review (continued) [ 31 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Financial Review
Improved profitability 
on the back of higher
PGM prices and
improved sales volumes.
Earnings per Share (EPS)
Profit for the year ended 30 September 2011 attributable to equity shareholders
amounted to $273 million (2010 – $112 million) and the EPS was 134.8 cents
compared to 56.9 cents in 2010. Underlying EPS, being earnings excluding special
items, amounted to 111.6 cents (2010 – 70.2 cents). This significant increase in
profitability reflects improved PGM and Base metal prices as well as higher sales
volumes, offset somewhat by increased costs and the impact of the stronger Rand.
Income Statement
The $83 million movement between the underlying operating profit of $311 million
for the year ended 30 September 2011 and that of $228 million for the year ended
30 September 2010 is analysed below. 
$m
Year to 30 September 2010 reported operating profit 203
Year to 30 September 2010 special items 25
Year to 30 September 2010 underlying operating profit 228
PGM price 290
PGM volume 126
PGM mix (60)
Base metals 51
Revenue changes 407
Cost changes (including foreign exchange impact of $48 million) (324)
Year to 30 September 2011 underlying operating profit 311
Year to 30 September 2011 special items (4)
Year to 30 September 2011 reported operating profit 307
Revenue
Total revenue rose by $407 million from 2010 to just below $2 billion for the year
ended 30 September 2011.
The PGM pricing environment during the year improved over the last year and the
impact on the average prices achieved on the key metals sold is shown below.
Year ended Year ended
30.09.11 30.09.10
$/oz $/oz
Platinum 1,769 1,525
Palladium 752 448
Rhodium 2,145 2,308
PGM basket (excluding by-product revenue) 1,299 1,139
PGM price improvements contributed $290 million to the overall increase in
revenue. It should be noted that whilst the US Dollar basket price has increased by
14% over the 2010 comparative period, in Rand terms the basket price increased
by only 9% impacted by the relatively stronger Rand. 
“The reorganisation of 
the Group’s bank debt
facilities, together with
the reduction in net debt
has strengthened the
Group’s balance sheet
considerably.”
Simon Scott
Chief Financial Officer [ 32 ]
PGM sales volume for the year to 30 September 2011
at 1,435,929 ounces was 110,539 ounces or 8% up
on the year to 30 September 2010.The improvement
in PGM volumes contributed $126 million. However,
the mix of metals sold resulted in an adverse impact
of $60 million mainly due to a lower proportion of
Platinum due to metal-in-process inventory timing
differences. Base metal revenue was up $51 million
due to a combination of volume and price
improvements. 
Operating Costs
Total underlying costs in US Dollar terms increased by
$324 million mainly due to increased production and
the impact of cost escalations. A track of these
changes is shown in the table below.
$m
Year ended 30 September 2010 – 
underlying costs 1,357
Increase / (decrease):
Marikana underground mining 92
Marikana opencast mining 31
Limpopo mining 1
Concentrating and processing 13
Overheads 21
Operating costs 158
Pandora and W1 ore purchases 15
Metal stock movement 103
Foreign exchange 48
Depreciation and amortisation –
Cost changes (including foreign 
exchange impact) 324
Year ended 30 September 2011 – 
underlying costs 1,681
Total Marikana mining costs increased in the year by
$123 million or 14%, mainly as a result of increased
production, an 8% wage increase incurred in the period,
and a 24% escalation in electricity costs due to an
increase in tariffs. The ramp up of opencast mining
also added $31m to the Marikana mining cost base.
Concentrator and processing costs increased over
2010 by $13 million driven primarily by increased ore
processed, and escalation effects, in particular from
electricity costs as described above.
Ore purchases increased by $15 million driven by 
a full year of purchases from W1 in addition to normal
Pandora JV purchases.
Overheads increased by $21 million largely due to
salary escalation and a full year of the new State
Mining Royalty which added $6 million to the cost
base over the prior year. 
The $103 million adverse impact on operating profit,
excluding exchange impacts, of metal stock movements
results from the reversal of the stock build up in 2010
due to the run out of the Number One furnace.
The Rand remained strong against the US Dollar
during the year under review averaging ZAR6.95 to
USD1 compared to an average of ZAR7.45 to USD1
in 2010 resulting in a $48 million adverse impact on
operating costs.
Cost per PGM Ounce
The C1 cost per PGM ounce produced for the year 
to 30 September 2011 was R7,534. This was an
increase of 11.2% compared to 2010. This increase
was largely driven by higher than inflation increases 
in the wage bill (8%) and electricity tariffs (24%) as 
well as a lower grade due to the change in ore mix
(increase in Merensky ore from opencast and
underground operations as well as poorer geology at
K3 shaft). These were not mitigated by the expected
increase in production in the second half of the year
due to the industrial action in May and management
induced safety stoppages in March and April. Had 
the production interruptions arising from the safety
induced stoppages and the illegal strike at Karee not
occurred, the year on year cost increase per PGM
ounce would have been 8.0%.
Further details of unit costs analysis can be found in
the Operating Statistics.
Special Operating Costs
In 2011 special operating costs of $4 million were
charged. The move of the operational head office from
London to South Africa was completed in the first
quarter at a cost of $2 million. In addition a further 
$2 million impairment charge was taken on the write
down of employee housing in Marikana.
Financing Costs
The total net finance costs of $23 million for the year
ended 30 September 2011 represent a $52 million
adverse movement compared to the total net finance
income of $29 million for the year ended 30 September
2010. 
Net bank interest and fees increased from $43 million
to $46 million for the year ended 30 September 2011
largely as a result of the unwinding of previously
capitalised unamortised bank fees relating to the old
banking facilities which were replaced by new facilities
during the year. Interest totalling $46 million was
capitalised to assets (2010 – $43 million).
During the year Lonmin entered into an interest rate
swap to hedge against its exposure to a base floating
interest rate linked to a six month USD libor. The swap
was entered into prior to drawing down on the loan
facility resulting in an interim fair value loss of $6
million before hedge accounting was applied.
The HDSAs receivable, being the Sterling loan to
Shanduka, increased by $12 million during the year 
to 30 September 2011 with $3 million of foreign
exchange losses recognised against $15 million of
accrued interest. The fair value of the associated
HDSAs derivative decreased by $24 million reflecting
the significant movement in Lonmin’s share price since
30 September 2010.
Financial Review (continued) [ 33 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Taxation
Reported tax for the current year was a credit of $28
million after exchange gains on the translation of Rand
denominated tax balances of $82 million and the tax
effects of special items of $2 million. The underlying
tax charge is $56 million reflecting an effective rate of
18%. The underlying charge largely reflects deferred
tax charges being recognised on accelerated capital
allowances with an increased level of current tax in the
year due to increased profitability. The dilution in the
effective tax rate is driven by exchange gains on
translation of Rand denominated working capital
balances at year end which do not have a tax
consequence in US Dollars.
Cash Generation and Net Debt
The following table summarises the main components
of the cash flow during the year:
Year ended 30 September
2011 2010
$m $m
Operating profit 307 203
Depreciation, amortisation 
and impairment 124 134
Changes in working capital 245 (218)
Other 6 14
Cash flow generated 
from operations 682 133
Interest and finance costs (36) (41)
Tax (16) (12)
Trading cash inflow 630 80
Capital expenditure (410) (261)
Dividends paid to minority (10) (22)
Free cash inflow / (outflow) 210 (203)
Investment in joint venture (2) (3)
Net proceeds from 
equity issuance – 229
Additions to financial 
assets (30) (285)
Issue costs on non-current 
borrowings (8) –
Dividends paid to equity 
shareholders (30) –
Shares issued 1 1
Cash inflow / (outflow) 141 (261)
Opening net debt (375) (113)
Foreign exchange 2 1
Unamortised fees (2) (2)
Closing net debt (234) (375)
Trading cash inflow 
(cents per share) 311.2c 40.7c
Free cash inflow / (outflow) 
(cents per share) 103.7c (103.2)c
Cash flow generated from operations in the year
ended 30 September 2011 at $682 million was
significantly higher than the $133 million recorded in
2010. This was driven off the back of improved
operating profits coupled with a much improved
working capital position which saw debtors and
inventory decrease by $260 million and $12 million
respectively during the year under review somewhat
offset by a $27 million decrease in creditors. 
Trading cash inflow for the year to 30 September
2011 amounted to $630 million (2010 – $80 million).
The cash flow on interest and finance costs
decreased by $5 million. Tax payments increased from
$12 million in 2010 to $16 million in 2011 representing
provisional corporate tax payments. The trading cash
inflow per share was 311.2 cents for the year ended
30 September 2011 against 40.7 cents for 2010.
Capital expenditure cash flow at $410 million was
$149 million above the prior year and in line with the
Company’s drive to increase production. In Mining the
expenditure incurred was focused on operating
developments at Hossy and Saffy shafts, equipping
and development at K4 and investment in sub-
declines at K3. In the Process Division spend
comprised additional furnace capacity and the
Easterns tailings treatment plant. 
The proposed dividend of 15 cents per share for the
financial year ended 30 September 2010 was paid
during the period under review resulting in a cash
outflow of $30 million.
Net debt at $234 million has decreased significantly
by $141 million since 30 September 2010. In the
2010 financial year smelter run outs led to a significant
back end loading of sales, resulting in unusually high
debtors as well as stock build up at the year end. This
had a significant impact on working capital. The
working capital locked up in receivables at the 2010
year end has subsequently been realised during the
current period under review. Improved profitability on
the back of higher PGM prices and improved volumes
has also had a positive impact on the Group’s net
debt position. 
As a result gearing, calculated on net borrowings
attributable to the Group divided by those attributable
net borrowings and the equity interests outstanding at
the balance sheet date, was 7% at 30 September
2011 (30 September 2010 – 10%). The ratio of
consolidated net debt to underlying EBITDA
decreased from 1.07 times at 30 September 2010 to
0.54 times at 30 September 2011. As mentioned later
in this report, the reorganisation of the Group’s Bank
debt facilities during the year has resulted in the debt
maturity profile being extended. The quantum of gross
bank debt facilities at year end amounted to $945
million, and consequently the Group’s balance sheet
has strengthened considerably over the year. [ 34 ]
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
The Group faces many risks in the operation of its
business. The Group’s strategy takes into account
known risks, but risks will exist of which we are
currently unaware. This financial review focuses on
financial risk management.
Financial Risk Management
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to
the availability of funds to meet business needs (liquidity
risk), the risk of default by counterparties to financial
transactions (credit risk), fluctuations in interest and
foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. 
These are the critical factors to consider when
addressing the issue of whether the Group is a Going
Concern. As is clear from the following paragraphs,
the Group is in a strong position regarding financial risk.
There are, however, factors which are outside the control
of management, specifically, volatility in the Rand / US
Dollar exchange rate and PGM commodity prices,
which can have a significant impact on the business.
Liquidity Risk
The policy on liquidity is to ensure that the Group has
sufficient funds to facilitate all ongoing operations. The
Group funds its operations through a mixture of equity
funding and bank borrowings. The Group’s philosophy
is to maintain an appropriately low level of financial
gearing given the exposure of the business to
fluctuations in PGM commodity prices and the Rand /
US Dollar exchange rate.
As part of the annual budgeting and long term
planning process, the Group's cash flow forecast is
reviewed and approved by the Board. The cash flow
forecast is amended for any material changes
identified during the year, for example material
acquisitions and disposals. Where funding
requirements are identified from the cash flow
forecast, appropriate measures are taken to ensure
these requirements can be satisfied. Factors taken
into consideration are:
• the size and nature of the requirement;
• preferred sources of finance applying key criteria
of cost, commitment, availability, security /
covenant conditions;
• recommended counterparties, fees and market
conditions; and
• covenants, guarantees and other financial
commitments.
Bank debt facilities were reorganised in July and the
existing $875 million in bank debt facilities were
replaced with new facilities totalling approximately
$945 million. The new facilities extend the debt
maturity profile, with $823 million of the new facilities
being committed for five years and the remaining
facilities being one year rolling facilities. The new
facilities consist of a $700 million syndicated US Dollar
facility and three South African Rand bilateral facilities
of R660 million each. 
The $700 million syndicated facility which is supported
by BNP Paribas S.A., Citigroup Global Markets
Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, J.P . Morgan Limited, Lloyds
TSB Bank Plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. and
Standard Chartered Bank will be used to support the
longer term capital requirements of the Group. The
key covenants in the US Dollar facilities include a
maximum net debt / EBITDA ratio of 4.0 times and a
minimum EBITDA / net interest ratio of 3.5 times.
The three R660 million bilateral facilities are at the
WPL level, the operating company, and will be used
for day to day working capital requirements. These
facilities are supported by FirstRand Bank Limited,
Investec Bank Limited and The Standard Bank of
South Africa Limited. The key covenants in these
facilities include a maximum net debt / EBITDA ratio 
of 3.5 times and a minimum EBITDA / net interest
ratio of 3.5 times calculated at a WPL level.
As at 30 September 2011, Lonmin had net debt of
$234 million, comprising $310 million of drawn
facilities net of $76 million of cash and equivalents and
$8 million of unamortised bank fees as well as a
further $8 million of external debt incurred to fund the
construction of a chrome treatment plant with an
outside partner. 
The effective cost of debt funding was circa 5.9% for
the financial period.
Credit Risk
Banking Counterparties
Banking counterparty credit risk is managed by
spreading financial transactions across an approved
list of counterparties of high credit quality. Banking
counterparties are approved by the Board and consist
of the ten banks that have participated in Lonmin’s
new bank debt facilities as described above.
Trade Receivables
The Group is exposed to significant trade receivable
credit risk through the sale of PGMs to a limited group
of customers.
This risk is managed as follows:
• aged analysis is performed on trade receivable
balances and reviewed on a monthly basis;
• credit ratings are obtained on any new customers
and the credit ratings of existing customers are
monitored on an ongoing basis;
• credit limits are set for customers; and
• trigger points and escalation procedures are
clearly defined.
HDSA Receivables
HDSA receivables are secured on the HDSA’s
shareholding in Incwala.
Financial Review (continued) [ 35 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Interest Rate Risk
Currently, the bulk of Lonmin’s outstanding
borrowings are in US Dollars and at floating rates of
interest. However, to provide greater certainty, Lonmin
entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap on
the term component of the US Dollar debt. This fixes
the base rate in respect of the $300 million term
facility for the next five years. The interest position is
kept under constant review in conjunction with the
liquidity policy outlined above and the future funding
requirements of the business.
Foreign Currency Risk
The Group’s operations are predominantly based in
South Africa and the majority of the revenue stream is
in US Dollars. However, the bulk of the Group’s
operating costs and taxes are paid in Rand. Most of
the cash received in South Africa is in US Dollars.
Most of the Group’s funding sources are in US Dollars.
The Group’s reporting currency remains the US Dollar
and the share capital of the Company is based in US
Dollars.
Our current policy is not to hedge Rand / US Dollar
currency exposures and, therefore, fluctuations in the
Rand to US Dollar exchange rate can have a significant
impact on the Group’s results. A strengthening of the
Rand against the US Dollar has an adverse effect on
profits due to the majority of operating costs being
paid in Rand. 
The approximate effects on the Group’s results of a
10% movement in the Rand to US Dollar 2011
average exchange rate would be as follows:
EBIT +/- $142m
Profit for the year +/- $102m
EPS (cents) +/- 50.6c
These sensitivities are based on 2011 prices, costs
and volumes and assume all other variables remain
constant. They are estimated calculations only.
Commodity Price Risk
Our policy is not to hedge commodity price exposure
on PGMs, excluding gold, and therefore any change
in prices will have a direct effect on the Group’s
trading results. 
For Base Metals and Gold, hedging is undertaken
where the Board determines that it is in the Group’s
interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows.
The policy is to hedge up to a maximum of 75% of the
future cash flows from the sale of these products
looking forward over the next 12 to 24 months. The
Group did undertake a number of hedging contracts
on Nickel, Copper and Gold sales using forward
contracts during the year although no forward
contracts were in place at year end.
The approximate effects on the Group’s results of a
10% movement in the 2011 average metal prices
achieved for Platinum (Pt) ($1,769 per ounce) and
Rhodium (Rh) ($2,145 per ounce) would be as follows:
Pt Rh
EBIT +/- $128m +/- $22m
Profit for the year +/- $92m +/- $16m
EPS (cents) +/- 45.4c +/- 7.8c
These sensitivities are based on 2011 costs and
volumes and assume all other variables remain
constant. They are estimated calculations only.
Contingent Liabilities
On 30 September 2011 Lonmin subscribed for an
additional R175.5 million in preference shares from
Lexshell 806 Investments (Pty) Limited, Shanduka’s
investment vehicle in Incwala. These funds were then
used by Incwala (WPL’s black empowerment
shareholder) to settle its outstanding liabilities that had
previously been guaranteed by Lonmin and as a result
at year end no contingent liabilities in this regard were
outstanding. 
The Group provided third party guarantees to the
Department of Minerals and Energy in connection 
with environmental and rehabilitation obligations 
which the Group has to fund in order to restore the
environment once all mining operations have ceased.
At 30 September 2011 these guarantees amounted 
to $50 million (2010 – $50 million).
Dividends
In line with the Board’s policy on dividends introduced
at the end of 2010, the Directors propose a dividend
of 15 cents per share for the year.
Simon Scott
Chief Financial Officer [ 36 ]
Internal Controls and Risk Management
Where material risks have been identified within our business,
we have implemented an appropriate internal control
environment to endeavour to protect shareholders’ interests.
Internal Controls 
As in any business, Lonmin faces risk and uncertainty
in everything it does. The corporate strategy was
developed to exploit identified opportunities, while
seeking to mitigate known downside risks. Where
material risks have been identified within our business,
we have implemented an appropriate internal control
environment to endeavour to protect shareholders’
interests. The Board is ultimately responsible for the
Group’s system of internal controls and risk
management, and it discharges its duties in this 
area by:
• Determining Lonmin’s risk appetite (the risk
exposure our strategy requires us to take in the
expectation of an economic return) and risk
tolerance (the risk we are prepared to face in
achieving our strategic goals);
• Overseeing the risk management strategy; and
• Ensuring management implement effective
systems of risk identification, assessment and
mitigation and internal controls. These systems
are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives
and cannot provide absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
Key features of Lonmin’s internal control framework include:
Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the
internal controls has been delegated to the Audit &
Risk Committee. The Committee uses information
drawn from a number of different sources to carry out
this review:
• Internal Audit provides objective assurance – their
annual work plan is developed in conjunction with
management and focuses on key risks and key
internal controls. In the light of Internal Audit’s
recommendations, management develops and
implements corrective action plans, which are
tracked to completion by Internal Audit, with the
results reported to executive management and to
the Audit & Risk Committee;
• Annual self-assessments completed by around 
76 managers in the Group – each manager
confirms whether there have been any breaches
of the controls and if they are aware of any
weaknesses in the control environment, within
their area of the business. The principle of
individual accountability and responsibility at
operational level is an important component in the
Group’s overall risk philosophy. Managers are
responsible for the identification and effective
management of all risks in their areas of
responsibility, and these letters have a wide
ranging scope; and
• Further objective assurance is provided by the
external auditors and other external specialists.
Clear delegation
of power
Schedule of Matters
reserved for the
Board’s decision
Remit and terms of
reference of Board
Committees
Delegation of authority
to each level of
management
Agreed objectives
Group Strategy,
supported by Life of
Business Plan, resource
database and model
Annual financial and
technical budgets
Risk tolerance/appetite
clearly defined
Agreed ways
of working
Charter, values and Code
of Business Conduct
Documented policies,
procedures, processes
and standards
Risk management policy
and procedures
Appropriate tools
including SAP , mine
planning, metallurgical
tracking and accounting,
and risk systems
Transparency
Clear accountability
Management reporting
against budgets, plans
and forecasts
Annual management
confirmation letters
supported by
Annual audit and other
external assurance
providers
Internal audit and other
in-house review processes
Á Á Á [ 37 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Throughout the year Lonmin complied with the
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code on
internal controls and the relevant sections of Internal
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors (the Turnbull
guidance) and Guidance on Audit Committees (formerly
the Smith guidance). No significant weaknesses or
material failings were identified in the annual review.
Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal controls over financial
reporting, including over the Group’s consolidation
process. A comprehensive strategic planning,
budgeting and forecasting system is in place. Monthly
financial information, including trading results and
cash flow statements, are reported to the Board and
management. Both the Exco and the Operations
Committee meet monthly to review performance
against budget and forecast and senior financial
managers regularly carry out Group consolidation
reviews and analysis of material variances. The Audit &
Risk Committee reviews the application of financial
reporting standards and any significant accounting
judgements made by management.
Internal controls over financial reporting are designed
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external reporting purposes.
Risk Management
Lonmin has an integrated approach to risk management
and internal controls to ensure that its review of risk is
used to inform the internal audit process and the
design of internal controls. The risk management
process, which has been in place throughout the year
under review and to the date of approval of the
accounts, identifies, evaluates, manages and monitors
the risks facing the business. Those risks that are
identified as significant, in addition to the associated
mitigating controls, are reviewed regularly by the Exco
and then by the Board. The Audit & Risk Committee
regularly reviews the effectiveness of the risk
identification process and the methodology used to
evaluate and quantify the risks, in line with the
guidance appended to the Code.
“Top-down” and “bottom-up” risk reviews are carried
out in each area of the business involving the Board
and Exco and operational and middle managers
respectively. All senior managers are responsible for
managing and monitoring risks in their area of
responsibility and recording these in the risk register. 
It is mandatory for this process to take place at least
once a year but in practice reviews often take place
more frequently. For each risk identified, management
assesses the root causes, consequences and
mitigating controls. An assessment is then made of
the maximum risk exposure, taking into account the
probability of the risk occurring and the impact before
mitigating controls. Each of the business areas is
supported by an Operational Risk Champion who 
co ordinates all risk management activity in that
business area and ensures that actions are
implemented appropriately. This process ensures all
risks are measured, monitored and reported on a
consistent basis.
A significant portion of Lonmin’s risks relate to safety,
the environment, social development and
transformation. To enhance focus in these areas, each
business area has dedicated personnel responsible
for managing environmental and safety matters and
monitoring action plans. In this way Lonmin ensures
accountability remains with operational management.
These particular risks are also reviewed by the Safety
& Sustainability Committee and Transformation
Committee in addition to the Board.
Lonmin’s principal risks are detailed on the following
pages together with their potential impact and
mitigating strategies. These risks have been ranked
according to magnitude of potential impact before
mitigating actions. These risks represent a snapshot
of the Company’s risk profile at this time. They are not
intended to represent an exhaustive list of all risks. 
As the macro environment changes and country and
industry circumstances evolve, new risks may arise 
or recede or the rankings of these risks may change
according to severity and probability of occurrence.
For investors in Lonmin, the main risk to be aware of
is that the Company is a focused producer of PGMs
and therefore, while this allows for economies through
specialisation, Lonmin does not benefit from commodity
diversification. Further, since the commodities Lonmin
mines are all from one geographic region, its
performance is influenced by the political, social and
economic factors that affect South Africa. This
includes significant exposure to the US Dollar/Rand
exchange rate. As such, volatility in metal prices and
exchange rates can have a material impact on the
financial performance of the Company, which can be
both positive and negative.
Risk Tolerance
Risk tolerance is an indication of the amount of risk a
company is willing to accept in order to meet its strategic
objectives. This is reflected in a Company’s capacity
to sustain losses and in its ability to continue to meet
its obligations under different trading conditions.
Lonmin has a matrix scoring system in place in terms
of which risks are rated based on their likelihood and
potential severity. This severity can be measured using
financial, health and safety, environmental, stakeholder
or legal criteria. As such, Lonmin measures more than
just the potential financial impact of risks. These
scores are then used to escalate risks within the
organisation as appropriate and prompt mitigating
actions to be taken. [ 38 ]
Lonmin’s Principal Risks
Principal Risk Impact Mitigation
Failure of safety Could result in a catastrophic loss of life, Commitment from Board and senior 
routines or safety severely disrupt operations and have a management towards creating a safe 
strategy material adverse effect on the Group’s culture throughout the Group. The Safety 
financial position. & Sustainability Committee monitors the 
implementation of the safety strategy on 
behalf of the Board. Processes in place 
for safe production include:
• Employee engagement strategy and 
safety training standards, both of 
which are monitored regularly;
• Clearly defined safety protocols 
including safe behaviour observations 
in place;
• Regular third party audits and peer 
reviews conducted; and
• Balanced scorecard measures 
incentivise appropriate safety behaviour.
Resource Nationalism A negative outcome as a consequence Ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders 
of resource nationalism, which can take and government at all levels to understand 
many different forms, could have a and address concerns.
material adverse effect on the Group’s 
future operational performance and 
financial position.
Skills shortages Lack of appropriate skills could negatively Processes for individual development 
impact upon safety, production and the programmes, succession planning and 
ability to deliver against targets. scarce skills allowances are in place. 
There is a focus on bursaries, graduate 
development and mentorship.
Non-delivery of Could results in deteriorating relationships We engage with all our stakeholders 
Transformation with stakeholders and place mineral including the South African government. 
rights at risk. Targets are set and monitored on a regular 
basis by the Exco, the Safety & 
Sustainability Committee and the 
Transformation Committee. The 
Balanced Scorecard incentivises delivery 
against certain targets.
Access to secure Could impact on the ability to run Measurement of energy usage and energy 
energy, electricity current operations and deliver future saving initiatives implemented. Load 
and water expansion plans. shedding and contractual agreements 
in place with Eskom (SA energy supplier). 
Likewise, measurement of water usage 
and water saving initiatives implemented. 
Plans aligned with long term strategy. 
Electricity and water supplies secured 
for key areas of the business. Active 
participation in relevant industry bodies.
Failure to deliver on Shareholder value may not be optimised Strong capital projects department built 
long term capital plans over the long term. up to implement long term capital plans. 
Borehole drilling, magnetic surveys and 
3D seismic surveys are conducted to 
ensure full understanding of the geology 
on Lonmin properties. Independent peer 
reviews of the long term plan are carried 
out. Balanced Scorecard incentivises 
appropriate reserve development.
Internal Controls and Risk Management (continued) [ 39 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Principal Risk Impact Mitigation
US Dollar metal price Significant changes in the supply and Lonmin gathers market information from 
and currency volatility demand of PGMs (e.g. if there is product a number of sources to monitor market 
(specifically US Dollar/ substitution or supply side constraints) segments and trends in the industry. 
SA Rand) can create volatility in PGM prices making Longer term volume contracts with key 
long term planning difficult. Likewise, customers mitigate off-take risk. 
significant fluctuations in exchange rates Historically there has been a long term 
to which the Group is exposed can also correlation between US Dollar/ SA Rand 
make planning difficult and have a and PGM basket price, although this can 
significant effect on the Group’s financial dislocate over short periods. Current 
position. policy is not to hedge.
Access to cost The Group may not be able to obtain Headroom and key covenants in banking 
effective funding cost effective funding when required lines are constantly monitored through 
which could impact the ability of the rolling cash flow forecasts. The current 
Group to meet its liabilities as they fall due. bank debt facilities were re-negotiated 
during the year allowing greater flexibility.
Uncompetitive gross Could have a material adverse effect on Lonmin has a clear understanding of its 
or unit costs the Group’s competitive position. competitive position and required 
productivity improvement plans are in 
place. Balanced Scorecard incentivises 
cost control.
Poor employee Could result in an unstable workforce A full engagement strategy with the 
relations due to internal that severely disrupts operations and unions and employees is in place, which 
and external factors has a material adverse effect on the is governed through a clearly defined 
that could result in Group’s financial position. Industrial Relations structure. Recognition 
strike action agreements are in place.
Poor community Civil unrest could severely disrupt A full engagement strategy with community 
relations due to internal operations and have a material adverse representatives, unions and employees is 
and external factors effect on the Group’s financial position. in place.
that could result in 
civil unrest.
Inadequate smelting Could severely disrupt operations and The Pyromet furnaces provide an element 
performance and have a material adverse effect on the of back-up capacity. Spare capacity in 
back-up capacity Group’s financial position. Number One furnace currently gives some 
ability to catch up. Number One furnace 
includes improved monitoring and fault 
detection technology. The Number two 
furnace is currently under construction 
and should become operational in May 
2012.
Excessive dilution and Could have a material adverse effect on Grade targets set and reported. Technical 
poorly optimised plant the Group’s financial position. service function reviews management 
leading to recoveries information and quality control of data 
not in line with plan capture and measurement. Third party 
audits and peer reviews conducted to 
guide grade target levels. Plant 
maintenance programmes ensure plant 
stability to assist in optimising recoveries. 
Further investments made to enhance 
metallurgical recoveries. Experienced 
management teams and clear benchmarks 
set. Balanced Scorecard incentivises 
maximisation of recoveries. [ 40 ]
Lonmin’s Principal Risks (continued)
Principal Risk Impact Mitigation
Lack of short term ore Shareholder value not optimised over Performance measured against budget 
reserve development the long term. and reported through the Exco to the 
planning Board. An on shaft independent technical 
services function provides support to the 
mining teams. Balanced Scorecard 
incentivises reserve development. 
Internal reviews regularly conducted.
Impact of climate Climate change is an international Lonmin has a comprehensive Response 
change on the problem that could lead to devastating Strategy to Climate Change in place. This 
business including the consequences which are as yet not includes operational plans to manage and 
impact of a carbon completely understood. Coupled with monitor energy, electricity and water 
pricing system the proposed introduction of carbon efficiencies and includes participation in 
taxation it is likely that climate change climate change forums.
will have a financial impact upon the 
business.
Failure in internal Could severely disrupt operations and Lonmin has a clear organisational 
controls or accounting have a material adverse effect on the structure with appropriate segregation 
processes Group’s financial position. of duties and independent internal and 
external audits with follow up.
The Internal Audit work plan is closely 
aligned to the risk management framework 
and risk profile of the Group.
From an inventory evaluation perspective, 
grade targets are set and reported 
against. Samples are analysed at the 
assay laboratory. Stock counts are carried 
out every six months, with the oversight 
of external and internal auditors. Metals 
are tracked electronically.
Internal Controls and Risk Management (continued) [ 41 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Sustainability Review
This Review provides a summary of our approach to
sustainability and an overview of our performance against those
issues that we have identified as being the principal risks to the
sustainability of our business. Our web based Sustainable
Development Report (SDR) contains comprehensive information
on how we are ensuring Lonmin’s long term sustainability.
As this report is specifically addressed to shareholders
we have concentrated on the principal issues that
provide an understanding of Lonmin’s business and
the environment in which we operate. Some initiatives
in progress or planned for 2012 are not reported on in
this section, based on their significance. However, the
omission of this information should not be considered
to imply any lack of commitment to them on the
Company’s part.
Sustainable development supports the delivery of our
corporate objectives through the fostering of a safe
production culture, operational excellence and
building growth to supply the robust market demand
for PGMs. Through transformation and sound
sustainable development practices, we capitalise on
diversity and quality of our workforce.
Sustainable Development Approach
Lonmin’s Integrated Sustainable development
approach focuses on three main pillars:
• People: Caring for the social wellbeing of
employees, contractors and communities.
• Planet: Fostering environmental stewardship
through resource management, efficiency and
impact management. 
• Profit: Enhancing equitable prosperity through
resource optimisation, financial performance,
product stewardship and procurement processes.
Underpinning these three pillars is the foundation of
good governance. This system enables sustainable
development considerations to form an integral part 
of how we do business by adopting sustainable
development as a core value. We are fully committed
to the highest standards of corporate governance
practice, which we believe is necessary to achieve the
business integrity required to deliver robust and
sustainable business results. Focus areas have been
identified, based on our principal sustainable
development risks, as part of an ongoing improvement
process that will ensure integration of sustainable
development within Lonmin’s planning and decision
making systems. 
Our approach to the sustainable development pillars is
supported by our specific strategies and management
plans to achieve the corporate objectives.
Integrated Approach for Sustainable Development
Safety and Sustainable Development Policy
Governance
Board Committees: Safety & Sustainable Committee, Transformation Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee
Lonmin’s Code of Business Conduct and relevant Sustainable Development related policies
People
• Safety Strategy
• Health Strategy
• Human Settlement Strategy
• Human Capital Strategy
• Stakeholder Engagement 
Protocol
Planet
• Climate Change Response Strategy
• Integrated Environmental
Management Strategy:
• Air Quality Management
• Energy Management
• Water Management
• Waste Management
• Land Management
• Closure Planning
Profit
• Preferential Procurement Strategy
• Market Development Strategy
• Life of Business Plan
• Exploration Strategy [ 42 ]
Managing Sustainable Development
The Company’s overall governance practices are
underpinned by the values set out in the Lonmin
Charter and supported by the newly refined Lonmin
Code of Business Conduct, which will be released in
the near future. Our commitments in the governance
of sustainable development are defined in the Lonmin
Safety and Sustainable Development Policy and
guided by our Lonmin Sustainable Development
Standards aligned with the Ten Principles of the ICMM.
Our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Ian Farmer, is
ultimately responsible for advocating sustainable
development within Lonmin. The Exco assists him and
is responsible for reviewing the Company’s progress
and performance on safety and sustainability issues.
The EVP – Processing, Natascha Viljoen, has line
responsibility for our Sustainable Development
Programme. 
Transformation Committee
The primary purpose of the Transformation Committee
of the Board is to ensure that the Company meets or
exceeds its commitments and obligations and that the
interests of all stakeholders, including shareholders,
are properly enhanced in the areas of transformation
and empowerment. 
Safety & Sustainability Committee
The Safety & Sustainability Committee of the Board
has oversight of the safety, health and environment
matters. The Committee reviews significant safety and
environmental incidents and considers causative
factors, consequences and actions. The Committee
reports to the Board on developments, trends and
forthcoming significant legislation on safety and
sustainability matters.
Reporting on our Principal Sustainable
Development Risks
The global environment remains turbulent and we are,
of course, affected by the risks associated with this
turbulence. Our operations are all in South Africa,
which faces significant development challenges such
as poverty, inequality, unemployment, poor health and
inadequate education. 
We prioritise the identification and management of all
risks that could impact our business and allocate
suitable resources to manage our sustainable
development risks. As not all risks are significant we
assess our principal risks and set targets for
management of those risks that are identified as
principal risks. Additional information on our
management approach, sustainability performance
and other sustainable development risks that we have
identified is provided in the SDR.
Performance Against our Targets
Governed by our Safety and Sustainable Development
Policy we have targets in place that direct adequate
resources to the effective management of those risks.
The table on page 44 provides an overview of the
targets we set for 2011, our performance against
those targets and the targets we have identified for
future years. 
Establishing Integrity through Auditing and
Assurance
We commission regular auditing and assurance
processes with the aim of improving the integrity of
our measurement and data management systems and
the quality of our external reporting activities. The
Board’s Audit & Risk Committee approves the annual
Company wide internal and external audit plans. Audit
findings are updated monthly and progress on
corrective management plans are reviewed monthly
by the Exco and twice a year by the Audit & Risk
Committee of the Board. In addition to the Company
wide assurance processes conducted for our annual
SDR, we also conduct an internal audit on selected
key sustainability indicators. External assurance is
provided on selected parameters in the SDR, the
alignment of our policies and business practices with
the ICMM Principles and our reporting in accordance
with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting
principles.
External audits of our International Standards
Organisation (ISO) 14001, ISO 9001 and Occupational
Hygiene and Safety Standard (OHSAS) 18001
management systems support continuous improvement
of our performance at an operational level. In 2011 all
our operations retained their ISO 14001 Environmental
Management System certification. Currently, our
Smelter, Base Metal Refinery (BMR), Precious Metal
Refinery (PMR) and Analytical Laboratories are
OHSAS 18001 certified. Our PMR and Training
Academy retained their ISO 9001 certification.
In 2011 we achieved our target of receiving no
prosecutions or fines relating to safety, health and
environmental management. We generate regular
Environmental Management Programme Reports
(EMPRs) which form part of the bi-annual external
Environmental Performance Assessment audit. 
Based on our own assessment of the web based
Sustainable Development Report against the criteria
provided in the GRI G3.1 application levels, we
declare the report fulfils the requirements of an A+
application level.
Sustainability Review (continued) [ 43 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Membership of External Organisations and
Initiatives
Lonmin has been a member of the ICMM since 2004
and we are signatories to the United Nations Global
Compact (UNGC). 
The ICMM Sustainable Development Framework
comprises three elements: a set of Ten Principles
(which include a set of supporting position
statements), public reporting and independent
assurance. These have been developed systematically
over the past ten years. More details on the ICMM can
be found on their website (www.icmm.com).
Through our participation in the ICMM, we support 
the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI),
a coalition of governments, companies, civil society
groups, investors and international organisations 
that aims to strengthen governance by improving
transparency and accountability in the extractive
sector.
Public Policy Positions
A Company representative belongs to two groupings
of company secretaries / general counsel that
undertake significant lobbying in the United Kingdom
and Europe on corporate legal and governance
matters on a cross industry basis.
In South Africa we have been engaging with the DMR
both directly and via the Chamber of Mines. Our CEO
participates as an Executive Council member of the
Chamber of Mines.
Engaging our Stakeholders
We believe that establishing sound relationships with
our stakeholders allow us to create and maintain
resilient, stable operations, which in turn allows us to
deliver long term value to our shareholders. 
Our stakeholders include the investment community,
employees, contractors, unions, governments,
(national, regional and local), intergovernmental
bodies, regulators, communities hosting our
operations, business partners, non-governmental
organisations, suppliers, customers and the media.
We identify and engage our external stakeholders at 
a number of different levels and engagement is
undertaken in various ways. To manage our
stakeholder relationships we have developed the
Lonmin Stakeholder Engagement Protocol based on
industry best practice. A detailed review of the nature
of our stakeholder identification and engagement
practices is provided in the SDR. 
We have introduced an Annual Stakeholder Forum to
mitigate the risk of possible failure of employee and
community relations. The Annual Stakeholder Forum
not only provides an engagement opportunity, but will
also form part of our more structured approach to
stakeholder engagement.
We have also agreed to the establishment of a Bapo
Ba Mogale Development Team which will be chaired
by the CEO. The objective of the development team
will be to identify community employment and job
creation opportunities both at Lonmin and via the
community development programme.  [ 44 ]
Target 2011 Our 2011 performance Targets beyond 2011
SAFETY
Disruption of our operations resulting from a catastrophic safety event, failure of safety routines as a result of a poor
safety culture and work stoppages
We continue to maintain a target of We regret to report six
RA
fatal We continue to maintain a target of zero 
zero fatal injuries across all of injuries across our operations. fatal injuries across all of our operations.
our operations.
We will improve our LTIFR by a We have improved our LTIFR We aim to improve our LTIFR by a further 
further 5% by 30 September 2011 from 5.87 to 4.71
RA
(19.8% 5% by 30 September 2012.
to a total reduction of 10% from the reduction year on year). 
2009 baseline. Compared to the 2009 
baseline we improved our 
LTIFR by 24%.
TRANSFORMATION
Possible withdrawal of our Mining Licences resulting from failure to deliver on transformation commitments made in
our Social Labour Plan (SLP) regarding training and empowerment of our employees and communities.
We will increase female participation 7.45%
RA
of our workforce are On Track We aim to increase female participation at 
at the mine to 11.6% by women compared to the the mine to 10% by 30 September 2014.
30 September 2014.
1
7.04% reported in 2010. 
4.33%
RA
of employees in core 
operations are women. 
We will increase the participation We have 46.5%
RA
employees On Track We aim to increase the participation of 
of employees from designated from designated groups employees from designated groups within 
groups
2
within each level of participating within each level of management to 40% by 
management to 40% by management. 52.8% 30 September 2014.
30 September 2014. designated groups in junior 
management, 34.4% in 
middle management and 
20% in senior management.
We will have 65% of our total In 2011 we have procured On Track We aim to have 40% procurement 
discretionary spend with HDSA 28.37%
LA
of our Capital Goods, spent from BEE entities on Capital 
suppliers by 30 September 2012, 47.95%
LA
Services and 40.96%
LA
Goods; 70% for Services and 50% 
to align with the Scorecard for the Consumable Goods from Consumable Goods of our total 
Broad Based Socio-Economic BEE entities. discretionary spend with HDSA entities 
Empowerment Charter.
3
by 2014.
We will convert an additional 26 We have converted 26 hostel Percentage conversion of hostels in family 
hostel complexes into bachelor complexes into single units towards the 2014 target of the
and/or family accommodation and/or family accommodation. Mining Scorecard.
by 30 September 2011.
We will upgrade a further 252 We upgraded only 63 houses We aim to have converted the remainder
houses at our Marikana operations at Marikana. It became of our hostels into single and/or family
by 30 September 2011. necessary to use the remaining accommodation by 31 December 2014 in
houses designated for upgrade line with the Mining Scorecard.
to house the new recruits 
following the Karee strike.
1 This target has been restated to align to the Charter.
2 Designated Groups include employees who are disabled, women, or employees classified as African, Asian or Coloured and who have South African
citizenship.
3 We have restated this target to align with the scorecard for Broad Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter.
RA Reasonable Assurance provided by KPMG.
LA Limited Assurance provided by KPMG.
Performance Against Our Targets
7
4
4
7 [ 45 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Target 2011 Our 2011 performance Targets beyond 2011
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Poor employee relations due to internal and external factors that could result in strike action
No targets were in place for 2011 An engagement strategy with We aim to develop and implement a
as the risk was identified as a the unions and employees strategy to move from Industrial relations
principal risk during 2011. governed through a clearly defined to employee relations.
industrial relations structure and
recognition agreements is in place.
Poor community relations due to internal and external factors that could result in civil unrest
No targets were in place for 2011 We have refreshed our We aim to introduce regular community
as the risk was identified as a stakeholder engagement stakeholder forum meetings, facilitated by
principal risk during 2011. programme and approved a a third party, to track issues and concerns
fit for a purpose communication by 30 September 2012.
plan to improve stability of our 
community investment. We aim to re-engineer recruitment
processes to increase employee
representation from the GLC by 
30 September 2014.
Difficulties in land management particularly due to the encroachment of proposed formal or informal settlements on
the Lonmin mining rights areas
No targets were in place for 2011 We have introduced monthly In addition to the monthly engagements with 
as the risk was identified as a engagements with ward ward councillors, we aim to have bi-monthly 
principal risk during 2011. councilors. meetings with municipality leadership and
to continue our engagement with the Bapo
Ba Mogale tribal authority to find a
resolution to the encroachment of
proposed formal and informal settlements
on the Lonmin mining rights areas.
HEALTH
Negative impact of occupational and chronic diseases such as Noise Induced Hearing Loss (NIHL), HIV/AIDS and
Tuberculosis (TB)
We will increase participation of 526 patients have been We aim to increase participation of patients 
patients in our wellness programme enrolled in the wellness in our wellness programme by a further 5% 
by a further 5% by 30 September programme. This is a 5.6% by 30 September 2012 (2011 baseline year).
2011 (2010 baseline year). increase from the 2010 
baseline.
We aim to maintain one active In September 2011 there was We aim to have one active workplace 
workplace peer educator for one workplace peer educator peer educator for every 75 employees 
every 75 employees by for every 143 employees. through to September 2012.
30 September 2011.
We will reduce our number of In 2011 35
RA
new cases of We attempt to reduce the number of new 
new NIHL cases by a further 5% NIHL represented a 12.5% NIHL cases by a further 10% by 
by 30 September 2011 reduction in new NIHL cases 30 September 2012.
(2010 baseline year). from 2010 baseline.
4
7
–
–
–
4 [ 46 ]
Performance Against Our Targets (continued)
Target 2011 Our 2011 performance Targets beyond 2011
ENVIRONMENT
Inability to secure adequate electricity supply for the planned expansions in line with the Lonmin Life of Business Plan
(LOBP)
We will reduce our aggregate In 2011 the total energy We aim to maintain and to improve energy 
energy consumption per unit of intensity was 6,532.63
RA
efficiency by 5% by September 2015 and 
production by 10% by Terajoules (TJ), a year on year secure sufficient energy supply required to 
30 September 2012, thereby increase of 5.1%. Our energy allow delivery of Lonmin’s Life of Business 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production has Plan (LOBP). 2011 will be the baseline year.
by 5% (2007 baseline year).
4
decreased by 11.1% from the 
2007 baseline.
Our GHG efficiency this year of 
1.14 tonnes CO
2-e per PGM  
ounce equals our 2007 baseline.
Inability to secure an adequate supply of water to sustain and expand our operations in line with the Lonmin LOBP
We will reduce our aggregate fresh 33% reduction of fresh water We aim to maintain our aggregate fresh 
water intake by 15% per unit of per unit of production intake water intake per unit of production (2007 
production (2007 baseline year) by from the 2007 baseline. baseline year) until 30 September 2012.
30 September 2012.
Development of the integrated We aim to prevent any discharges from 
water balance which will assist Marikana return water dams and Waste 
in addressing discharges and Water Treatment Plants into the 
improve our overall water environment by 30 September 2014.
efficiency.
Impact of Climate Change on the business
No targets were in place for 2011 We developed a Lonmin We aim to respond to the impacts of 
as the risk was identified as a Response Strategy to Climate Change as per the performance 
principal risk during 2011. Climate Change. indicators identified in the Lonmin
Response Strategy to Climate Change. 
SO 2 emissions levels impacting on environment and communities
We will reduce the amount of We have commenced with the We aim to execute our commitments as per 
ground level fugitive SO
2 emissions implementation of our SO 2 the Atmospheric Emissions Licence and 
by 40% (2010 baseline year) by Emission Impact and Reduction comply with the new promulgated SO
2
30 September 2014. Management Plan. The SO 2 emission standards by 30 September 2020. 
emissions for 2011 were 
calculated at 10.58 tonnes We aim to reduce the amount of ground 
per day, a 3.51 tonnes per day level fugitive SO
2
emissions by 40% (2010 
(24.9%) decrease from 2010 baseline year) by 30 September 2014.
baseline.
4 We have restated this target to align to our Life of Business Plan.
4
4
4
– [ 47 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
People
Embedding a Culture of Safety
Safety continues to be identified as one of our
principal risks. We are successful when our
employees and contractors live and work safely. We
are committed to our value of zero harm to people.
Our hierarchy of safety management includes our:
• Charter, which outlines the vision and values of the
Company and governs safety management at a
high level;
• Training of Line Management on core principles
and development of their safety knowledge;
• Company wide Integrated Safety Strategy with
three pillars: Fatality Prevention, Injury Prevention
and a Safe Culture;
• Safety and Sustainable Development Policy, which
outlines our commitments to our health and safety
values;
• Fifteen Lonmin Sustainable Development
Standards supported by protocols and Fatal Risk
Control Protocols, which provide a risk based
management framework for Company wide safety
management, continual improvement and
alignment with best practice; 
• Auditing of the implementation of the Safety
Strategy by the Group Safety Department;
• Safety structures and staffing to conduct legal
compliance inspections and audits; and
• Implementation of the industry tripartite action
plan on health and safety, including the roll out of
the National Safety Summit commitment.
Work Related Fatalities in 2011
Six people were fatally injured in our operations this
year. This performance is unacceptable and we will
not continue to operate in this manner. On behalf of
the entire Lonmin community we extend our deepest
sympathies to their families and friends for their tragic
loss:
Mr Jonas Thomage Kgwatlha was fatally injured in a
fall of ground accident on 8 October 2010;
Mr Modisaotsile Edward Setlhare was killed
underground in an incident involving trackbound
mobile equipment on 9 February 2011;
Mr Hermanus Potgieter was fatally injured when he
was caught in a mud rush on 28 February 2011;
Mr Afiado Mazive was injured by a scraper rope and
died in hospital of a pulmonary embolus on 14 March
2011;
Mr Rafael Macamo was fatally injured in an engulfment
incident after falling down an ore pass on 5 April; and
Mr Alpheus Mogane Moerane was fatally injured in a
fall of ground incident on 12 April 2011.
The six fatalities in the year represent double the
number of incidents compared with each of the prior
four years. While each incident was different and there
were few common features, after the third employee
loss of life our CEO closed all of our operations for a
one day stoppage to review the safety conditions of
our operations and behaviour of all our employees.
Management collectively reviewed and reaffirmed their
commitment to safety and zero harm.
Production was again stopped at the Mining Division
in April, after the sixth fatality to undertake an
underground workplace safety audit conducted by the
senior leadership of our Company.
We are committed to our safety values, improving and
sustaining an environment that enables our employees 
and contractors to work safely. [ 48 ]
During the year we held a Lonmin Safety Summit
leading up to our participation in the National Safety
Summit in July 2011. The National Safety Summit was
supported by the DMR as well as trade unions. At the
summit Ian Farmer, our CEO, recommitted the
Company to zero tolerance towards fatalities and to
our value of zero harm to our employees and
contractors.
A recommendation that came out of the summit was
to establish representative task teams. The primary
focus of the task teams will be to address different
safety issues and enhance the effective implementation
of the strategy. The task teams will sit regularly to
address issues that arising from the summit and
report back to the Summit Controlling Committee. 
As part of our information gathering process, we
conducted a culture survey in 2011 and also
conducted a progress audit on compliance and
maturity which, viewed against the baseline we
established in 2010, indicates that we are making
progress against some of our safety objectives such
as injury prevention. 
Through the safety summit and the culture survey we
identified the key focus areas affecting safety in our
operations are leadership, simplifying systems,
enabling environment and creating a safe culture.
More detailed information on these focus areas is
provided in the SDR.
LTIFR
1
LTIFR is the principal measure of safety performance
as it illustrates the number of occurrences of injuries
per man hours worked; providing us with the tool to
identify when our controls failed. The year on year
LTIFR improved by 19.8%% from 5.87 in 2010 to 4.71
in 2011. This is above our target reduction of 10%.
Our LTIFR figure includes employees and contractors.
The number of Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) was 419, a
year on year decrease of 11%; despite increased
production for 2011 we injured less people. The
severity rate
2
was 274, a year on year increase of 2.6%. 
1 The total number of LTI’s per million man hours worked. 
An LTI is a work related injury resulting in the injured being
unable to attend or return to work to perform the full or
similar duties of his / her regular work, as per advice of a
suitable qualified medical professional, on the next calendar
day after the injury.
2 The total days lost for the total lost time injuries per million
hours worked.
07
0
100
200
300
400
800
600
500
700
0
4
2
6
8
10
12
08 09 10 11
Financial year
LTIs
LTIFR per million man hours worked
LTIs
LTIFR
419
4.71
LTIFR and LTIs
People
Embedding a Culture of Safety (continued)
We encourage and foster a culture of safe behaviour. [ 49 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
People
Attracting and Retaining a Skilled Workforce
During 2011 there was an illegal strike action by
members of the NUM members at our Karee
operations which disrupted production from 17 May
to 10 June 2011and resulted in the dismissal of
approximately 9,000 employees. We redeployed
approximately 8,200 of these people who expressed 
a wish to be re-employed. The remaining employees
we recruited from the GLC and skilled employees
from the non-operational Aurora mines. After industrial
action of this nature it is important to re-establish
relations with affected employees and we will be
continuing with the work already undertaken in this
regard during 2011. 
The business case for attracting and retaining a skilled
workforce is clear: 
• In order to retain our Mining Licence we need to
comply with regulatory requirements and our SLP
commitments; and
• We need to develop and retain a skilled,
productive workforce in order to maintain a
profitable and sustainable business. 
In 2012 we will be focusing on employee relations and
enhancing communication within the Company with
the aim of improving understanding, establishing open
two way dialogue and avoiding disruptive industrial
action. This includes ensuring the trade unions are
fully informed on Lonmin’s policies and procedures
and have a thorough understanding of our business.
Our EVP: Human Capital and External Affairs, Barnard
Mokwena, who reports directly to our CEO, is
responsible for the development and implementation
of our Human Capital Strategy; that has five integral
components:
• Performance culture: Building a culture that is
values based, transformational, performance
focused and through which teams and individuals
are highly motivated;
• Effective attraction: Recruit in line with our Mining
Charter targets;
• Employee development: To create a skills, talent
and leadership employee pool;
• Employee engagement: Lonmin is a Company
where leadership is developed, skills are trained,
performance is managed and the wellness of
employees is attended to; and
• Talent retention: Talented employees are retained
through competitive rewards and recognition with
development opportunities and promotion
potential.
Our recruitment, remuneration and promotion policies
and procedures aim to ensure that equal opportunity
is afforded to all. As much as our focus is on
production and profit, of equal importance is the
achievement of our transformation objectives. In this
section we will provide an update on transformation 
in management, in women in the workforce, talent
management and human resource development.
Transformation in Management
To address the legacy of inequality in South Africa we
provide designated groups, which include employees
who are disabled, women, or employees classified as
African, Asian or Coloured and who have South
African citizenship, with empowerment opportunities.
To date our representation of designated groups in
South African among our permanent employees in
management positions are 46.5% compared to last
year’s 43.3%.
The overall numbers of designated groups in
management roles are on track to meet the 2014
target of the employment equity scorecard for the
Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment
Charter. To meet our targets per management level
we have included a bonus metric in the Lonmin
Corporate Scorecard to accelerate the employment 
of HDSAs in management positions. Our recruitment
policy is to give preference to HDSA candidates to
further implement transformation in management.
Retaining Skills and Developing Current and Future
Employees
We reward outstanding performance and incentivise
employee development through our reward and
retention programmes. 
Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain
the best talent at every level, which is becoming increasingly
challenging in the context of intensifying national and international
demand for skills in the mining industry. We also need to address
the legacy of inequality in South Africa by providing our HDSA
employees with empowerment and developmental opportunities. [ 50 ]
To enhance career development we facilitate Individual
Development Plans (IDPs) and mentorship programmes.
We currently have 1,611 IDPs in place. During 2011
Lonmin had 201 active mentoring relationships in
place of whom over 75% were from designated groups. 
Through the Lonmin Training Academy we implement
a range of targeted training initiatives, including
induction courses, annual refresher training, and
specific technical training, that are available to all our
employees. We also provide a Front Line Supervisory
Development Programme and managerial skills
training programmes. Our employees are also given
the opportunity to study at independent learning
institutions. Lonmin has a Study Assistance Policy for
employees, which sets out the financial assistance we
will provide to employees wishing to study and the
terms of sabbaticals for employees studying
independently.
Human Resource Development through
Transformation
We undertook a baseline competency analysis which
assessed our internal pool of skills and informed the
development of our training plan for 2012. Given that
a significant percentage of our workforce will be retiring
in the next ten to fifteen years, our Training Academy
is focusing on developing sufficient employees with
the right skills to continue implementing our business
strategy. When our employees have to retire they need
to continue earning. We have assessed what training
they require to continue earning and have determined
that in some cases they need to be taught a range of
portable skills. In addition they are trained in life skills,
including financial management. In 2011 we trained
57 employees on portable skills. Our enterprise
development programme is also available to assist
them in setting up businesses, should they wish to do
so. In 2011 we spent the equivalent of 3.81% of our
payroll on training.
Recruitment
During 2011 we recruited 6,544 employees. This year
we have recruited 473 women twenty of whom joined
our management team. 79% of all our recruits were
HDSAs. 
All community based recruitment, including Women in
Mining initiatives, are being tracked and reported on,
in a weekly recruitment report. Out of 2,073 (7.45%)
women employed at Lonmin, 1,071 are working in
core areas. In addition to female recruitment
programmes, we also ensure the creation of adequate
physical environment to facilitate an increase in the
number of women including availing relevant policies
to accommodate women and providing targeted
training initiatives.
An area of risk that we are seeking to address is our
community relations. Our biggest recruitment challenge
is the difficulty we have in finding people, particularly in
our local communities, who have the appropriate level
of education or skills. This exacerbates relations with
communities where unemployment and poverty levels
are extremely high and people are desperate for
employment. 
Community unrest experienced at our Marikana
Operations, which resulted in protest action, has also
highlighted the need to communicate continually with
communities to increase understanding.
We are addressing the recruitment challenge in a
number of ways: 
• Investing in the education of the young people in
the GLC from early childhood through to tertiary
education; 
• Providing ABET for our employees to close the
gap in education levels;
• Training of community members in mining related
skills; 
• Providing adult education in the GLC so we can
close the gap in the education levels of job
seekers and equip them to qualify for employment
with Lonmin; and
• Accelerating local recruitment through a mining
related skills programme, learnership and bursary
programme and a feasibility study was completed
to establish an artisan college.
We are also aligning our preferential procurement
targets to that of the Broad-Based Socio-Economic
Development Charter for the South African Mining
Industries, which are to procure 40% of capital goods,
70% of services and 50% on consumable goods from
black owned entities. This year we have procured
28.37% capital goods 45.59%, services and 46.14%
of consumable goods from black owned entities.
People
Attracting and Retaining a Skilled Workforce
(continued)
We facilitate Individual Development Plans and
mentorship programmes. [ 51 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
People
Housing our Employees
One of South Africa’s major challenges, at both a
regional and national level, is the critical shortage of
affordable housing; the resolution of this challenge
requires the cooperation of both government and the
private sector.
We estimate that approximately 50% of the people
living in a fifteen kilometre radius of our operations are
housed in informal dwellings with little or no access to
basic services.
Lonmin believes that the living conditions of our
employees affect their ability to add value in the
workplace. Our commitment to providing our
employees with affordable accommodation that
enhances their wellbeing, security and self-esteem
and enables them to add value is an integral part of
our SLP . To manage the possible risk in failing on our
commitment we have put specific targets in place for
this year one being the converting of 26 hostel blocks.
In terms of the revised Mining Charter we are
committed to converting and upgrading hostels to
achieve the occupancy rate of one person per room
as well as converting and upgrading hostels into
family units. Our baseline showed that we had already
converted our hostel accommodation into 
• 494 units (412 family units and 82 single units). 
By 2014 we plan to have converted the remainder of
our hostel space into a cumulative total of
• 2,790 units (824 family units and 1,966 single units).
Revised Strategy
To date we have constructed 1,728 homes. In 2011,
we converted 26 hostel blocks into single and family
units. 26.04% progress was achieved in the
conversion and upgrading of hostels to have one
person per room. 64.08% of hostels converted into
family units.
Through the Marikana Housing Development
Company 179 of our employees are now the owners
of homes which were sold to them.
Our Housing Strategy has been revised, following the
experience we have gained, further information we
gathered from a survey of our employees and in terms
of the latest Government policies. Our new Integrated
Human Settlement Strategy will focus on a series of
sustainable integrated initiatives of which densification
is a central theme. To deliver on this strategy we will
examine the feasibility of developing strategic
partnerships between the Company, property
developers, investors and financiers, to develop 
higher density more affordable homes. 
To enhance employee wellbeing we have undertaken to provide
affordable housing to our employees. [ 52 ]
People
Employee Health
A healthy workforce is an advantage to our business,
as it means that our employees are fit to work at their
full potential with fewer sickness absences. Our health
programmes address occupational illnesses, public
health issues and overall wellbeing.
Our Approach
We aim to eliminate occupational illness by providing a
workplace free from health and hygiene hazards. We
identify the main health issues affecting our workforce
and the local communities. This allows us to address
their specific needs.
Good corporate governance underpins our health
programmes. Guided by the Safety and Sustainable
Development policy we drive for continual
improvement in our health performance. Our
participation in the ICMM Health and Safety working
groups and the South African Chamber of Mines’
Health Policy Committee initiatives allow us to monitor
and benchmark against industry best practice. We
also partner with government, our peers and the
communities in which we operate to improve the
health and wellbeing of our employees and the
community. 
There are Health and Safety Committees across our
Mining and Process Divisions. The committees include
representatives from our trade unions and represent
the entire workforce in those divisions. In addition,
during regular safety breaks, health and safety topics
are addressed. 
We have an HIV/AIDS and TB Steering Committee.
The Committee, which finalised a comprehensive
HIV/AIDS and TB Strategy in 2010, meets quarterly 
to monitor the implementation of the strategy.
Our Health Department is responsible for healthcare
delivery, occupational health and hygiene policies,
standards, monitoring and auditing. Line management
is responsible for maintaining occupational health and
hygiene standards. Our CEO is ultimately accountable
for the health and wellbeing of all our employees and
contractors when they are on site. 
We are committed to our health and safety values and sustaining
an environment that promotes the safety, health and wellbeing of
our employees and their families, our contractors and the
communities in which we operate.
07
0
100
200
300
500
400
700
600
08 09 10 11
Financial year
NIHL diagnosed
NIHL compensated
Number of NIHL
35
17
Employee Noise Induced Hearing Loss [ 53 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Healthcare Delivery
All our employees and contractors have access to
occupational and primary healthcare services through
an on site hospital, two clinics in Marikana, an on site
clinic in Limpopo, an on site clinic at the PMR and a
24-hour emergency team. All our employees are
covered by a medical aid scheme subsidised by the
Company and they have the option of taking up
additional family medical cover. All our employees
have access to Anti-Retroviral Treatment (ART) if
required.
Any Lonmin employee or contractor injured at work 
is treated at our health facilities and, if necessary, is
referred for specialist care. In addition contractors
have access to all the medical services available on
site and treatment is provided. Contractors are also
obliged to undergo annual medical reviews. We do
not supply our contractors with ART, but we do
encourage contractors to supply ART to their
employees. We screen contractors for TB and provide
TB treatment to those contractors diagnosed with TB.
We train volunteers as peer educators to inform our
employees and contractors in HIV and TB. We have
178 active workplace peer educators representing
one workplace peer educator for every 156 employees.
This year we have been able to reduce the number of
HIV positive employees who have defaulted by 12%
and we were successful in increasing the uptake of
ART. The wellness champions have played a role in
this success. We also counsel employees about the
importance of continuing with their ART. 
In 2011, we diagnosed and treated 545 patients with
TB. We have noted an increase in cases of extreme
drug resistant TB and in multi-drug resistant TB. 
This year a TB completion and cure rate of 83.5%
was achieved.
Occupational Health
During 2011 we extended the monitoring of
occupational hygiene in Lonmin. The occupational
hygiene department is responsible to help reduce 
the risk of hazardous exposures, ensure regulatory
compliance, and to improve workplace conditions 
by implementing appropriate occupational hygiene
programmes.
Noise-induced Hearing Loss (NIHL) is one of the key
occupational health and hygiene risks faced by our
employees and contractors. We are working towards
achieving the Mine Health and Safety Council
Milestones for the elimination of noise induced hearing
loss of no new cases of noise induced hearing loss
and reduction of noise emitted by all our equipment to
below 110dB(A) by December 2013. We have a
comprehensive hearing conservation programme in
place consisting of a number of elements intended to
reduce the risk of noise induced hearing loss including
engineering controls, administrative controls, personal
protective equipment and medical surveillance. As a
preventative measure employees and contractors who
are deemed to be exposed to noise level risks are
screened annually and those exposed to high noise
levels undergo audiograms every six months. [ 54 ]
Planet
Climate Change
South Africa is in the process of developing national legislation on climate
change. We continue to engage with policy makers through industry
associations. We are working with members of our industry, as well as
other stakeholders, to understand the potential impacts of climate
change and take action to minimise them in areas likely to be most
affected and where we can to have the most impact.
Strategy
We have made significant progress on the development of our Climate
Change Strategy since 2010. It is intended that this strategy is integrated
into our Corporate Business Strategy. To this end, the strategy builds on
Lonmin’s existing values and policies and focuses on priority areas. The
strategy outlines four key strategic objectives and key performance
indicators reflective of these:
• Adaptation: Increasing resilience in the face of an uncertain future;
• Governance: Embed consideration of climate change in the fabric of
the business;
• Resource Management and Efficiency: Minimise our environmental
footprint and continually improve performance; and
• Capacity Building: Foster the commitment of all employees and
contractors.
A key feature of the process adopted in the development of the strategy
is the identification of risks and opportunities. In line with our risk process
we conducted a top-down and bottom-up risk and opportunity
identification exercise. The process also involved mapping out all climate
change risks and opportunities, building capacity within Lonmin and
assessing the likely impact of climate change on our business. 
We identified numerous climate change related risks across our business
at operational and corporate levels; and separated into various risk
categories. Low, medium and high scenarios were developed, based on
available historical weather data and scientific climate change models.
Our Approach
We developed a financial model to help us understand the potential
implications of these risks and provide an initial indicative cost. We are
currently assessing the impact of each risk and allocate to the
appropriate resources.
Our understanding of our carbon footprint continues to improve. Our
Scope Three emissions profile is currently limited. We are implementing
an action plan to expand this scope and report more comprehensively
on it in 2014. Our GHG efficiency this year of 1.14 tonnes CO
2
-e per
PGM ounce is equal to our 2007 baseline emissions. 
Lonmin recognises its role in mitigating and adapting to climate
change and has confidence that its initiatives will complement
society’s efforts on a local, national and global scale. 
07
0
200
400
1,000
800
600
1,600
1,400
1,200
2,000
1,800
0.00
0.45
0.30
0.15
0.60
0.75
0.90
1.05
1.20
1.35
1.50
08 09 10 11
Financial year
CO
2
-e (kt)
CO
2
-e (kt/PGM oz)
Total greenhouse gas emissions
Total GHG efficiency
Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and 2)
0.32%
93.53%
6.14%
Total Scope 3
emissions
(5,348 kt CO
2
-e)
Total Scope 2
emissions
(1,541,748 kt CO
2
-e)
Total Scope 1
emissions
(101,248 kt CO
2
-e)
Carbon Footprint by Scope [ 55 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Planet
A Focus on Energy Efficiency 
Our approach to make efficient use of electricity and
reduce our direct and indirect greenhouse gases (GHG)
emissions has been applied throughout the business.
During 2011 we implemented a number of initiatives
that aimed at improving our energy efficiency. They
included:
• Installing stand alone compressors at the
concentrators achieved a 2% reduction in energy
consumption in 2011;
• The re-designed compressed air system at
Marikana Mining has resulted in electricity savings
by shutting down compressors over weekends;
• Optimised Air Network projects at K3 and
Rowland have shown a 2% reduction in energy
consumption during the course of 2011; 
• All industrial change houses and residential
hostels are to be converted from conventional
electrical water heating to heat pump installations
by mid year 2013;
• Shaft pumping enhancements will be made and
savings realised by November 2012;
• All motors in the concentrators will be replaced
with high efficiency motors;
• We will be investigating compressor optimisation,
heat pump replacements for water heating and
main fan controls;
• 90% of our perimeter lights were replaced with
solar-powered lighting;
• Improved furnace availability at the smelter has
resulted in a significant increase in energy
efficiency; and
• Improving efficiency of the electro-winning process
at the BMR has reduced energy consumption.
Our total energy consumption in 2011 was 6,532.63
Terajoules (TJ), a year on year increase of 5.1%. Our
energy per unit of production has decreased by
11.1% from the 2007 baseline. Our electricity is the
most significant indirect energy source and amounted
to 1,496,842 MWh, a year on year increase of 8.4%.
During 2011 we implemented a number of initiatives that aimed
at improving our energy efficiency.
82.5%
6.0%
0.4%
11.1%
Fuel (726TJ)
Gas (29TJ)
Coal (389TJ)
Electricity (5,389TJ)
Energy Profile for 2011 (Total 6,533TJ)
Total Energy Use and Efficiency
07
0
1,000
2,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
7,000
6,000
8,000
0
1
2
3
4
6
5
8
7
08 09 10 11
Financial year
TJ
GJ/PGM oz
Total energy (TJ)
Total energy efficiency [ 56 ]
Planet
Managing our Atmospheric Emissions
Our principal atmospheric emissions are sulphur
dioxide emissions (SO
2
), greenhouse gases as
presented under our Climate Change section and Total
Suspended Particulates (TSP), which includes dust. 
Managing our Air Emissions
The two main management focus areas include
emissions and ambient management. An important
component of the emissions focus area is the update
of our emissions inventory which was completed and
updated in 2011. We undertook the Hazemeter
Campaign which provided us with evidence to do air
quality management planning. This project has proved
that both Lonmin sources and activities not owned by
Lonmin influence the ambient air quality within and
outside our mining boundary. We will investigate the
opportunity of mitigating activities within our
communities which affect the ambient environment. 
The most significant air quality issue for our smelting
and refining operations at Marikana are SO
2
. During
2011 we were granted an Atmospheric Emissions
Licence (AEL) for our smelting operations. Conditional
upon the issuing of the AEL is the inclusion of an
impact and emissions reduction strategy. This strategy
outlines our actions and fugitive management plan to
meet the 2015 and 2020 emission commitments as
promulgated under the National Environmental
Management Air Quality Act (NEMAQA) and to reduce
the amount of ground level fugitive SO
2
emissions by
40% (2010 baseline) by 2014. Quarterly reports
tracking our commitments are submitted to the
regulating authority. Our average SO
2
emissions for
2011 were 10.58 tonnes per day (t/d); a decrease of
3.51t/d (24.9%) from 2010. This is attributed to the
improved efficiency and availability of our SO
2
air
pollution control equipment at the Smelter.
Sources that contribute to the release of particulate
matter include tailings facilities, unpaved roads,
crushing operations, opencast mining and the
handling of materials, such as the tipping of waste
rock. All these sources are captured in our emissions
inventory that will inform our atmospheric dispersion
modelling studies currently undertaken. 
This year we piloted the use of chemical suppression
on the tailings dams at our Marikana operations. This
method of suppression has proved to be very
effective. We continue to maintain and operate the
suppression methods on our tailings facilities. During
2011 we spent in the order of US$0.4 million.
Our operations affect air quality in and around our Company. 
We acknowledge our responsibility to continually manage this
and reduce our impact on the environment.
07
0
2
6
4
10
8
12
14
16
08 09 10 11
Financial year
t/day
10.58
Average SO 2 Emissions  [ 57 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Planet
Water Management and Efficiency
Our Strategy
Shifting rainfall patterns and increasing demands on
the existing water supply are leading to water shortages,
which present a significant challenge for Lonmin and
the GLC. 
We aim to use water as effectively and efficiently as
possible and to avoid any negative impacts on water
quality. We utilise water in our primary activities, which
are prospecting, mining, concentrating, smelting and
refining and in our non-primary activities of dust
suppression and irrigation. The North West Province
where our Marikana mining operations are located has
experienced rapid growth and the pressures from
mining, industrial and urban developments in the
Rustenburg and surrounding areas have resulted in
the regional bulk water utility provider, Rand Water,
being unable to guarantee the water supply to the
areas. Therefore it is crucial for us to manage our
water usage efficiently. 
Managing our Water Resources
Our management of water is based on:
• Securing access to sufficient water for our current
and future mining operations;
• Reducing our fresh water consumption by improving
water use efficiencies and water recycling; and
• Preventing the contamination of ground and surface
water resources in the regions where we operate. 
The target we have set regarding water is to reduce
our aggregate fresh water intensity by 15% per unit of
production by 30 September 2012. We have identified
the access to sufficient water for current and future
mining as one of the major climate change risks, a
principal risk to our business. The total fresh water
efficiency has improved by 33% compared to the
2007 baseline.
In 2011, our total freshwater intake from the regional
water utilities at the Marikana and PMR operations, 
as well as from the well field in Limpopo, amounted to
7,912,594 m
3
, a year on year decrease of 1.15%. 
We started the development of an integrated water
balance in 2009 with the main focus on water usage
and pollution sources in our reticulation system. An
Integrated Water Balance Simulation Model has been
developed in 2011 that aims to achieve effective and
efficient utilisation of our water resources based on
reducing our potable water demand, re-using our
process water and preventing discharges to the
environment. 
To ensure the ground and surface water resources in
the regions where we operate are not contaminated
we have monitoring boreholes that are sampled every
quarter and surface water monitoring points that are
sampled monthly. In addition biomonitoring, which
assesses the aquatic biota in rivers, is conducted. Our
PMR has some historic pollution in the area of its
decommissioned effluent dams which we are currently
addressing using bioremediation options. Due to the
nature of the ore we extract there is no potential for
the release of acidic water, otherwise known as acid
mine drainage from our operations.
Our Limpopo operations have been issued with an
integrated water use licence while our Marikana
operations’ water use licence application has been
submitted to the regional Department of Water Affairs
but it has not yet been approved.
At Marikana, a long term solution is being investigated
that will allow us to secure access to water for our
LOBP . Formerly there have been significant opencast
mining operations at Marikana and the opencast pits.
Recharge from adjacent aquifers flows into these
backfilled opencast pits creating underground storage
compartments. These are draining into our
underground mining areas and need to be pumped
out. It is possible that by intercepting this groundwater
before it flows into the underground workings we can
harvest this “cleaner” water and re-use it in our
processes as a substitute for Rand Water. Pilot
studies are underway to investigate the use of these
artificial recharge sites and development of site
specific strategies has begun and will be finalised
during 2012.
Our mining operations are located in water scarce regions of
South Africa. The increasing demand and supply for water
presents a significant challenge for Lonmin and the communities
in which we operate.
07
0
2
8
6
4
12
10
14
1
2
3
5
4
7
6
8
08 09 10 11
Financial year
Fresh water intake
Water efficiency
millions (m
3
)
Water efficiency (m
3
/PGM oz)
Fresh Water Intake and Efficiency [ 58 ]
                                                                                                                             Group                     Group                     Group                     Group                     Group 
                                                                                  Measurement                       2007                       2008                       2009                       2010                       2011
Production
PGMs produced                                               oz        1,464,235        1,331,493        1,244,709        1,314,772        1,446,662
Economic
Net cash generated
Customers, consumers 
and investment income
Cash received for products                      $ million               2,016               2,270               1,138               1,442               2,226
Cash return on investment                       $ million                    16                    13                      3                      3                      3
Suppliers
1
Cash payments for materials
and services purchased                           $ million                 (395)                (445)                (486)                (473)                (641)
Cost of borrowings                                  $ million                   (41)                  (23)                  (34)                  (44)                  (39)
Net cash flows                                       $ million               1,596               1,815                  621                  928               1,549
Cash distributed
Human capital 
(salaries and benefits)                               $ million                  492                  557                  501                  659                  796
Social capital                                            $ million                   3.9                   7.3                   6.2                   8.7                   8.8
Government taxes                                   $ million                  267                  245                    56                    36                    40
Directors remuneration                             $ million                      7                      9                      7                      6                      7
Shareholder distribution                           $ million                  124                  171                  186                      –                    30
Cash retained for growth                          $ million                  655                  811                    51                  218                  667
Net cash distributed                              $ million               1,596               1,815                  621                  928               1,549
Employees
Employees                                               Number             24,122             25,967             21,623             23,915             27,796
Contractors                                              Number               8,580               7,758             10,497               9,131               9,564
Designated groups employed 
in management on a 
permanent basis                                 Percentage                 37.9                 42.3                 41.3                 43.3                 46.5
RA
Women employed in mining
2
               Percentage                   1.4                   1.8                   2.9                 3.22                 4.33
RA
Women employed at mining
3
              Percentage                   4.9                   6.1                   6.8                 7.04                 7.45
RA
Employee turnover rate                       Percentage                   4.1                   6.6                 23.3                   6.6               10.57
Employees and contractors 
trained in ABET                                        Number               1,389               2,866               1,139                  793                  601
Occupational Health and Safety: Employees and Contractors
Fatalities                                                   Number                      3                      3                      3                      3                      6
RA
LTIFR                                                             Rate
4
             10.80                 6.27                 6.21                 5.87
5
               4.71
RA
New NIHL cases diagnosed – Employees  Number                  624                  236                    45                    40                    35
RA
NIHL cases compensated – Employees    Number                  490                  229                    45                    28                    17
RA
Diagnosed and treated TB cases
6
            Number                  504                  533                  472                  528                  545
LA
HIV/AIDS related deaths                          Number                  112                    95                  110                    88                  139
Voluntary Counselling and 
Testing Conducted (VCT)                         Number             13,761             18,692               4,680             39,006
7
           31,666
7
Patients on ART
8
                                      Number                  836                  989                  962               1,349               2,022
Patients on the wellness 
programme                                              Number              N.D.A               1,150                  518                  498                  526
Key Sustainability Performance Statistics [ 59 ]
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
                                                                                                                             Group                     Group                     Group                     Group                     Group 
                                                                                  Measurement                       2007                       2008                       2009                       2010                       2011
Environment
Total freshwater intake                                      m
3
      11,795,482        9,256,244        8,885,360        8,005,092        7,912,595
RA
Total freshwater intake efficiency         m
3
/PGM oz                 8.06                 6.95                 7.14                 6.09                 5.47
Electricity                                                      MWh        1,619,922        1,575,917        1,481,744        1,380,218        1,496,841
Electricity efficiency                         MWh/PGM oz                 1.11                 1.18                 1.19                 1.05                 1.03
Energy                                                  Terajoules               7,434               6,555               6,613               6,215               6,533
RA
Energy efficiency                                GJ/PGM oz                 5.08                 4.92                 5.31                 4.73                 4.52
Greenhouse gas emissions                  Kilotonnes 
                                                     CO
2 equivalent               1,673               1,659               1,595               1,534               1,648
RA*
Greenhouse gas efficiency                    Kilotonnes 
                                                     CO
2-e/PGM oz                 1.14                 1.25                 1.28                 1.17                 1.14
Tailings disposed to 
tailings facilities                                     Kilotonnes             14,487             12,649             11,478
9
           11,038             11,820
Waste rock disposed to 
rock dumps                                          Kilotonnes               1,203               1,128               1,343               1,602               1,772
Hazardous waste disposed 
of to landfill and by incineration                         m
3
               7,038                  N.A                  N.A                  N.A                  N.A
Hazardous waste disposed 
of to landfill and incineration                      Tonnes                  N.A             42,857             55,906             50,562             72,052
General waste to landfill                             Tonnes             10,622
10
            8,279               7,199               9,595               9,744
Average sulphur dioxide emissions     Tonnes/day                 11.3                   9.1                 11.1                 14.1               10.58
LA
Communities
Rand Value spent on 
Approved SLP Projects                               Rand              N.D.A      42,120,000      28,768,000      28,175,000      37,980,955
RA
N.D.A No data available. Where it is indicated that no data is available, this is primarily as a result of low confidence in the accuracy of the data or an absence
of measurement of the data.
N.A. Not applicable.
LA Limited Assurance provided by KPMG.
RA Reasonable Assurance provided by KPMG.
RA* Reasonable Assurance by KPMG was only provided on Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions which equals 1,643 CO
2
equivalent
Kilotonnes.
1 We have a 30 day payment policy on services and procurement.
2 Women employed in mining represents those employed in core mining operations.
3 Women employed at the mine represents all women employed at our operations.
4 Incidents per million hours worked.
5 In 2010, we have improved the capturing of man hours worked at our operations, the denominator used for calculating LTIFR. As a result the LTIFR 
in prior years may have been overstated, but we believe the difference to not be material. It is not possible to restate the previous data.
6 This was incorrectly published prior to 2009 – the data represents total TB cases and not only pulmonary TB cases.
7 This figure includes VCT offered to employees daily (average of 2000 tests a month), the wellness campaign and does not exclude those employees
tested twice.
8 PMR patients access ART through their membership of the private medical aid schemes.
9 This figure was incorrectly reported in 2009 as 17,068 kilotonnes.
10 Figure was reported in 2010 as 53,110 m
3
; we have converted it to tonnes (53,110 m
3
x 0.2 = 10,622). Board of Directors
1. Roger Phillimore (62) Chairman 
(British and South African)
Roger was appointed Chairman in 2009,
having served as an independent Non-
executive Director since 1997, and also
chairs the Nomination Committee. Born
and raised in South Africa, Roger is a
graduate in economics and law and 
has career-long experience of the
international mining industry. He is a 
non-executive director of Harry Winston
Diamond Corporation and his previous
non-executive experience includes
Engelhard Corporation.
2. Ian Farmer (49) Chief Executive Officer
(British and South African)
Ian joined the Company in 1986 and 
after working in the then UK and
Zambian operations was appointed
Finance Director of Lonmin Platinum in
South Africa in 1995, holding this role
until he joined the Board and transferred
to London in 2001. He was appointed 
as CEO in September 2008, following
seven years as Chief Strategic Officer. 
A chartered accountant with a B.Compt
(Hons) degree, he is resident in
Johannesburg. Ian is a member of 
the Safety & Sustainability and
Transformation Committees.
3. Simon Scott (53) Executive Director
(South African and British)
A South African registered Chartered
Accountant, Simon joined the Company
and the Board in September 2010 and
became CFO in November 2010. 
A graduate with accounting and
commerce degrees, he also attended 
the management development
programme at the University of Cape
Town. He has held a number of financial
management roles in South Africa, with
local and global employers, including a
total of nine years with Anglo Platinum.
Most recently he was CFO of JSE-listed
Aveng, an engineering and construction
group with significant involvement in the
mining sector.
4. Cyril Ramaphosa (58) Non-executive
Director (South African)
Cyril was nominated by Shanduka,
Lonmin’s principal BEE partner of which
he is the controlling shareholder, and
appointed to the Board in July 2010. 
A law graduate, he was the first General
Secretary of the National Union of
Mineworkers and assisted in building 
it into the most powerful union in South
Africa. In 1991, he was elected Secretary
General of the ANC and led the team
negotiating the end of apartheid,
subsequently chairing the Assembly which
drafted the country’s first democratic
constitution. He then moved into the
private sector, founding Shanduka Group
which he continues to chair. He is also
Chairman of MTN and Mondi and 
serves on the board of a number of 
other companies and advisory bodies,
including South Africa’s National 
Planning Commission. Cyril chairs the
Transformation Committee of the Board.
5. Karen de Segundo (64) Independent
Non-executive Director (Dutch)
Appointed in 2005, Karen is a member
of the Audit & Risk, Nomination,
Remuneration and Safety & Sustainability
Committees. A graduate in law, with an
MBA from a US university, she spent
more than thirty years working globally
with Shell, becoming their first female
country head in 1983. After two years as
CEO of Shell’s global Gas & Power
business, she spent five years developing
and leading Shell’s renewable energy
business. Karen is a Non-executive
Director of British American Tobacco
(where she chairs the Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee), a director of
Pöyry and a member of the supervisory
board of E.ON.
6. Jim Sutcliffe (55) Independent 
Non-executive Director (British)
Appointed in 2007, Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee and a member
of the Audit & Risk, Nomination and
Transformation Committees. An actuary
by profession, Jim has extensive UK 
and South African business experience,
including senior executive roles with
Prudential UK and Old Mutual, being
CEO of the latter for seven years. He is a
director of the Financial Reporting
Council and chairs the UK Board for
Actuarial Standards, and is also a
director of Liberty Group and Liberty
Holdings, Sun Life Financial and
chairman of FXPro.
1. 2. 3.
4. 5. 6.
[ 60 ] 7. David Munro (56) Independent 
Non-executive Director (British)
Appointed to the Board in 2007, he is
also a member of the Nomination, Safety
& Sustainability and Transformation
Committees. David was most recently
Development Director of Kazakhmys Plc
and prior to that CEO of RMC Group Plc,
Chief Development Officer of BHP Billiton
Plc and a director of Billiton Plc responsible
for its global aluminium and base metals
businesses. A mining engineering
graduate, he has extensive experience 
of mine management in South Africa.
8. Len Konar (57) Independent 
Non-executive Director (South African)
Appointed to the Board in March 2010, 
a member of the Nomination and
Transformation Committees and, since
July 2010, chairman of the Audit & Risk
Committee. Len holds degrees in
accounting and commerce from South
African and US universities. After
qualifying as a Chartered Accountant, 
he pursued an academic career at the
University of Durban-Westville, before
moving into commercial roles. He now has
a broad-ranging business career, chairing
the boards of leading South African
companies including Exxaro Resources
and Steinhoff International and serving on
others including Sappi and Alexander
Forbes. A member of the King Committee
on Corporate Governance, he is also a
member of the Corporate Governance
Forum and the Institute of Directors.
9. Michael Hartnall (69) Senior
Independent Director (British)
Appointed in 2003, Michael is a member
of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committees and, until July 2010, chaired
the Audit & Risk Committee. A chartered
accountant, he held senior general and
financial management positions in a
number of manufacturing companies,
culminating in sixteen years as FD of
Rexam. He is also a Non-executive
Director of BAE Systems, and chairs that
company’s Audit Committee. He was a
member of the Hampel Committee which
devised the first version of the UK’s
Combined Code. Michael intends to
retire from the Board at the AGM in
January 2012.
10. Jonathan Leslie (60) Independent 
Non-executive Director (British)
Appointed to the Board in 2009, he is a
member of the Nomination and
Remuneration Committees, and chairs
the Safety & Sustainability Committee.
After graduating in Jurisprudence and
qualifying as a barrister, Jonathan spent
26 years with Rio Tinto, including nine
years’ service on the board. His roles at
Rio Tinto included Mining Director and
Chief Executive of the Copper and
Diamonds & Gold Product Groups. He
subsequently was CEO of Sappi and the
Executive Chairman of Nikanor and is
currently CEO of Extract Resources.
11. Mahomed Seedat (55) Non-executive
Director (South African)
Appointed to the Board on 1 January
2011, he is a member of the Safety &
Sustainability and Transformation
Committees. Mahomed has extensive
knowledge and experience of South
African mining, gained from a senior level
executive career with Anglo Coal, BHP
Billiton and latterly three years as Chief
Operating Officer of Lonmin, from
September 2007 to December 2010.
A graduate in electrical engineering,
Mahomed is also a director of Mechel
Mining and chairs the Boards of Lonmin’s
South African operating subsidiaries.
7. 8. 9.
10. 11.
Shareholder Information Operating Statistics Financial Statements Directors’ Report – Governance Directors’ Report – Business Review
www.lonmin.com
2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc [ 61 ] Executive Committee
[ 62 ]
1. 2. 3. 4.
5. 6. 7.
1. Ian Farmer (49) Chief Executive Officer 
(British and South African)
Biography included in Board of Directors section on page 60.
2. Simon Scott (53) Chief Financial Officer-designate 
(South African and British)
Biography included in Board of Directors section on page 60.
3. Albert Jamieson (53) Chief Commercial Officer (British)
Albert joined Lonmin in 1989 after eight years at Impala Platinum,
where he was responsible for their concentrator operations. 
At Lonmin, he has held a number of senior management and
executive positions in the mine production and commercial areas
of the business including responsibility for investments in Africa,
South America, North America, Australia and Japan. The
commercial portfolio currently comprises business development,
strategy, marketing and sales, exploration, legal and life of
business planning.
4. Barnard Mokwena (47) EVP , Human Capital & External Affairs
(South African)
Barnard joined Lonmin in October 2005, having previously
worked in senior management positions in a range of sectors for
a number of companies including Sentech and the South African
Rail Commuter Corporation.
5. Mark Munroe (42) EVP , Mining (South African)
Mark joined Lonmin in March 2008 in the Mining business,
becoming VP Capital Projects & Engineering before being
appointed as EVP Mining in June 2009. Mark joined Lonmin from
DRDGold, where he spent six years, holding a number of senior
management positions including General Manager of DRDGold
and CEO of DRDCapital. Prior to that, he worked for AngloGold
for twelve years. He is a mining engineer and also has a degree
in economics.
6. Thandeka Ncube (42) Business Transformation Manager,
Shanduka Resources (South African)
Thandeka works with Shanduka’s investee companies advising
on transformation and broad based empowerment. She holds 
a Social Sciences degree from the City University of New York
and an MBA from Henley Business School. She began her
career working with various government institutions, developing
strategy and policy for small and medium enterprises, then joined
the retail banking side of Standard Bank, where she again
focused on the needs of SMEs.
7. Natascha Viljoen (42) EVP , Process Division (South African)
Natascha joined Lonmin in 2008 from BHP Billiton, where she
was General Manager for Klipspruit mine. Her initial responsibility
was for managing Lonmin’s concentrators, and in May 2011 
she was promoted to her current role, covering all concentrating,
smelting and refining operations. She holds an engineering
degree and is currently busy with an executive MBA with UCT.
Her career stretches over various commodities and disciplines 
in the mining industry with nine years in senior management
roles. Before BHP Billiton she held positions with Anglo Platinum
and AngloGold. [ 63 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
This report combines the Directors’ Report required to be produced by law and the management report and corporate governance
statement required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules. It also includes sections reporting on the role and work of the Audit &
Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee, respectively required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules and The UK Corporate
Governance Code. The Directors’ Remuneration Report is contained in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 82 to 99.
1.    Governance of the Company
The Company is led and controlled by the Board of Directors, collectively responsible for the long term success of the
Company. The Board is fully committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance, as it believes this will
help facilitate the sustained success of the Company. 
As an English-incorporated company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, Lonmin is subject to The UK
Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in June 2010 and its supporting guidance,
all of which is available on the FRC website, www.frc.org.uk. During the year to 30 September 2011 and to the date of this
report, the Company has in all respects complied with the provisions of the Code.
Almost all of the Company’s business is based in South Africa, where the prevailing governance code is the King Report on
Governance for South Africa 2009, more commonly known as ‘King III’. While the Company and its subsidiaries are not
subject to King III the Board has identified certain provisions which it feels are of benefit to the Company’s overall governance
framework, primarily in relation to ethical and other considerations as to how our business is managed sustainably, which we
follow on a voluntary basis. 
2.    How the Board of Directors operates
2.1 The role of the Board 
The primary purpose of the Board is to create and deliver the long term success of the Company and protect the interests of
shareholders. The Board provides the entrepreneurial leadership, direction and control of the Company and is the custodian of
the Company’s strategic aims, vision and values. It assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are, and
will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives and ensure that it takes full account of safety,
environmental and social factors. 
The Board is the senior decision making forum in the Company, and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its
decision, most recently reviewed in November 2005. This is available on the Company’s website and confirms the Board’s
exclusive right to take decisions of strategic importance, or in relation to material financial and other commitments, or where
significant reputational or other risk may exist.
The Board met ten times during the year and used its time in
those meetings as shown in the chart alongside. Inevitably, any
agenda item can involve a degree of overlap between two or
more of the categories.
Directors’ Report – Governance
Report to shareholders on
business performance, and
ascertain their views
Oversee reporting to other
stakeholders
Monitor and understand the
risk environment in which the
Company operates
Monitor the delivery of strategy
Challenge or support
management as necessary
Oversee governance
environment, including 
through oversight delegated
to Board Committees
Oversee the internal control
framework
Develop the business model
and provide entrepreneurial
leadership
Appoint the CEO
Consider and approve strategy,
business plans and budgets
Á
Á
Á
Á
5%
16%
44%
35%
Risk
Strategic
Operational
Governance
Use of Board time in FY2011 [ 64 ]
2.    How the Board of Directors operates (continued)
2.2 Key Board roles
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are set out in writing and are
summarised below, together with the primary responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors. 
Chairman – Roger Phillimore (based in the United Kingdom) Chief Executive Officer – Ian Farmer (based in South Africa)
Lead and manage the Board Provide leadership to the executive team in running the business
Provide strategic guidance to the executive team Develop proposals for the Board to consider in all areas
reserved for its judgement
Promote the highest standards of corporate governance Ensure effective internal controls and risk management systems
are in place
Ensure effective communication with shareholders Implement all Board approved actions
Senior Independent Director – Michael Hartnall Non-executive Directors
To act as an intermediary for the other Directors when Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed 
necessary goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance
To be available to shareholders if they have concerns Review the integrity of financial information and determine 
which contact with the chairman, chief executive or other whether internal controls and systems of risk management are 
Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or would be robust
inappropriate
Determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive
Directors, be involved in the appointment and, where necessary,
the removal of Executive Directors and monitor succession
planning
Given their geographical separation, the Chairman has a weekly call with the CEO to discuss current material matters, and the
Chairman also visits the operations outside the Board meeting schedule to meet a wider range of senior executives and
managers. 
Clearly, having a detailed knowledge of South Africa, the mining industry, the PGM business and Lonmin’s operations is crucial
to the Non-executive Directors’ ability to contribute. On appointment each is provided with a tailored induction, and all are
then expected to devote time to developing their knowledge and skills. The Company supports this with a number of working
sessions with a wide range of operational managers (including site visits) and external subject-matter experts throughout the
year. The Non-executive Directors have regular contact with the Exco members (see Section 10 below) and the broader
management team through the working sessions as well as social occasions. The Chairman routinely holds discussions with
Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present. 
2.3 Appointments to the Board
The Company’s Articles of Association empower the Board to appoint new Directors. To ensure a formal, rigorous and
transparent procedure for appointing new Directors to the Board, a Nomination Committee has been created, whose work is
described in section 7 of this report. 
In order for any board to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively, it must comprise the right blend of individuals,
whose skills and experience were gained in a diverse range of backgrounds. Above all, the Directors must exhibit
independence of mind, integrity and the courage to challenge constructively when appropriate. Appointments are therefore
made on personal merit and against objective criteria. In the case of candidates for Non-executive directorships, care is taken
to ascertain that they have sufficient time to fulfil their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities. As part of this
process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any
changes. The Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment are available for public inspection and the generic template is
provided on the Company’s website.
As the current composition of the Board and Exco demonstrates, Lonmin strongly supports the benefits of diversity, both in
the boardroom and in the business. As the Chairman confirmed in his remarks on page 5, our principal challenge is in meeting
the transformation and employment equity targets we face in South Africa. Given this, we are not choosing to impose further
gender-based targets on ourselves, as these could create an unhelpful constraint on future Board appointments.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 65 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
2.    How the Board of Directors operates (continued)
2.4 The Board of Directors
The Board currently has eleven members: a Non-executive Chairman, eight Non-executive Directors and two Executive
Directors. The names of the current Directors and biographical details are set out on pages 60 and 61. All served throughout
the year, save for Mahomed Seedat, who joined the Board as a non-independent Non-executive Director on 1 January 2011.
In addition, Alan Ferguson served as an Executive Director until 31 December 2010, when his role was declared redundant.
Michael Hartnall has been a Director for almost nine years, and has indicated his intention to retire from the Board at the AGM
in January 2012. It is not currently intended to recruit another Director in his place.
2.5 Board balance and independence
The Board believes that it has an acceptable number of members with a sufficiently diverse balance of backgrounds,
experience and skills to discharge its functions effectively and to manage succession issues. A Board with eleven members 
is felt to be at the upper end of the preferred range, but is not unwieldy. The blend of individuals and their personal qualities 
are determining factors in the Board’s effectiveness; importantly, no one individual or group of individuals is able to dominate
decision taking. The Board keeps its membership, and that of its Committees, under review, to ensure gradual refreshing of
skills and experience. It is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is not placing undue
reliance on key individuals. 
Cyril Ramaphosa was nominated to the Board by Shanduka, the parent company of Incwala, Lonmin’s BEE partner, and 
as a result, the Board does not judge that Mr Ramaphosa is independent. In addition, Mahomed Seedat was formerly the
Company’s Chief Operating Officer and is therefore not regarded as independent. However, all of the other Non-executive
Directors are regarded as independent by the Board.
The experience, professional backgrounds and international diversity of the current nine Non-executive Directors can be
summarised as follows:
A number of the Non-executive Directors have lived and worked in countries other than those in which they currently reside,
and the vast majority have strong links with South Africa as evidenced in the biographical details on pages 60 and 61.
Directors’ Report – Governance
6
2
1
Manufacturing
Financial Services
Natural Resources
Industry sector experience Professional background Current country of primary residence
2
2
2
1
1
1
Legal
Political
Actuarial
Accounting
Mining/engineering
Management
5
3
1
Spain
South Africa
United Kingdom [ 66 ]
2.    How the Board of Directors operates (continued)
2.6 How we assess and refresh the Board
There are three ways in which we make sure that the Directors continue to provide suitable leadership and direction to the
Company: performance evaluation, succession planning and annual re-election by shareholders.
Performance evaluation
The Board believes that annual evaluations are helpful in maintaining an effective, challenging and dynamic Board, not least in
identifying improvement opportunities. Last year’s evaluation, which was externally facilitated, confirmed that the Board was
effective and identified two focus areas: 
Issue How was this addressed?
Closer involvement in contributing to the assumptions Additional board time has been devoted to debating supply and 
underpinning the development of strategy proposals demand fundamentals and metal price forecasts, the political
and economic positioning of South Africa and the implications
for its currency
Increase Board level focus on delivery of the Company’s A Transformation Committee was formed under the 
Social & Labour Plan commitments and other chairmanship of Cyril Ramaphosa, comprising Directors with 
transformation initiatives strong knowledge of doing business in South Africa. Further
information can be found on page 16 and in section 9 below
This year the Directors were asked to complete questionnaires, the collective results of which were used to set the agenda for
1:1 meetings between Chairman and each Director. This process confirmed that the Board believed that it remained effective,
revealed no issues and identified three priorities for the next twelve months:
• While the Company’s strategy remains appropriate, accelerating the delivery of this (subject to favourable market
conditions) is crucial to the creation of value for shareholders;
• In pursuit of that strategy, there must be an unrelenting focus on safety, transformation and the delivery of operational
results, specifically in achieving improved levels of cost-effectiveness; and
• While the Board is satisfied with the quality of the corporate risk register, further work needs to be done on the
prioritisation of these risks to ensure that mitigation actions are delivered to greatest effect.
Under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, Michael Hartnall, the Board met in November 2011 without the
Chairman present to discuss his effectiveness as Chairman. There were no areas of concern or any actions arising from this
session.
The effectiveness of each of the Committees was also reviewed, both in the Chairman’s conversations with each Director and
by each Board Committee at their September 2011 meetings. No material issues were identified in these reviews. 
Succession planning
The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for directorships and key management roles. The purpose of this
is twofold – to mitigate the risk of not having identified successors for key roles, and to identify development opportunities for
talented individuals within agreed career plans, which may help to retain them in the Group’s employment. During the year, the
Board discussed succession planning and, at its instigation, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the current plan and
provided detailed feedback to management, which was summarised to the Board. Around 80% of senior managers have now
undertaken Career Path Appreciation interviews. This tool aims, in conjunction with other psychometric tests, to establish
current and projected executive capability and provide objective input into the succession planning process. 
Re-election of Directors
All Directors will retire from the Board at the Company’s AGM in January 2012, and each wishes to seek re-election other than
Michael Hartnall who has indicated his intention to retire from the Board after almost nine years’ service. 
Sufficient biographical and other information is provided in this Annual Report and the AGM Circular to enable shareholders to
make an informed decision. The Nomination Committee has carried out formal performance evaluations of all the Non-
executive Directors seeking re-election and concluded that each is effective and continues to demonstrate commitment to his
or her respective role. 
2.7 Board meetings 
The Board met ten times during the year, of which six were scheduled meetings, including two three-day trips to South Africa.
The other four meetings were called in response to specific events or to issue approvals, usually at short notice, and did not
necessarily require full attendance. In addition to their meeting commitments, the Non-executive Directors also make
themselves available to management whenever required and there are regular contacts outside the Board meeting schedule.
Attendance at Board meetings during their period of tenure in the year to 30 September 2011 was as follows:
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 67 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
2.    How the Board of Directors operates (continued)
2.7 Board meetings (continued)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Scheduled                   Extra 
Director                                                                                                                                                                                               meetings             meetings
Ian Farmer                                                                                                                                                 6 of 6            4 of 4
Alan Ferguson                                                                                                                                           1 of 1            1 of 1
Michael Hartnall                                                                                                                                         6 of 6            2 of 4
Len Konar                                                                                                                                                 6 of 6            3 of 4
Jonathan Leslie                                                                                                                                         6 of 6            0 of 4
David Munro                                                                                                                                              6 of 6            2 of 4
Roger Phillimore                                                                                                                                        6 of 6            4 of 4
Cyril Ramaphosa                                                                                                                                       6 of 6            2 of 4
Mahomed Seedat                                                                                                                                      5 of 5            3 of 3
Karen de Segundo                                                                                                                                    6 of 6            2 of 4
Simon Scott                                                                                                                                              6 of 6            3 of 4
Jim Sutcliffe                                                                                                                                               6 of 6            3 of 4
Whenever a Director is unable to participate in a meeting, either in person or remotely, the Chairman will speak to them ahead
of time to solicit their views on key items of business, in order that these can be presented at the meeting and influence the
debate.
2.8 How the Committees support the Board in its work
To fulfil its role in the time available, the Board must delegate some of its duties and powers to committees. As well as the
committees recommended in the Code, the Board has established two other Committees to deal with specific business
needs, the Safety & Sustainability and Transformation Committees. Importantly, each Committee and its members are
provided with sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties. Membership of the Committees during the year to
30 September 2011 is shown below, together with individual attendance at the Committee meetings held during their tenure.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Safety & 
                                                                                                         Audit & Risk            Nomination        Remuneration         Sustainability      Transformation 
Non-executive Directors
Michael Hartnall                                                          Member
2
         Member           Member
                                                                                       4 of 4               2 of 2               4 of 4
Len Konar                                                                 Chairman
1
         Member                                                           Member
4
                                                                                       4 of 4               2 of 2                                                               2 of 2
Jonathan Leslie                                                                                   Member           Member         Chairman
                                                                                                               2 of 2               4 of 4               4 of 4 
David Munro                                                                                       Member           Member                                   Member
1
                                                                                                               2 of 2               4 of 4                                       1 of 1
Roger Phillimore                                                                                Chairman
                                                                                                               2 of 2                        
Cyril Ramaphosa                                                                                                                                                       Chairman
4
                                                                                                                                                                                       2 of 2
Mahomed Seedat                                                                                                                               Member
3                
Member
3
                                                                                                                                                               3 of 3               2 of 2
Karen de Segundo                                                      Member           Member           Member
1                
Member
                                                                                       4 of 4               2 of 2               1 of 1               4 of 4
Jim Sutcliffe                                                                Member           Member         Chairman                                   Member
4
                                                                                       4 of 4               2 of 2               4 of 4                                       2 of 2
Executive Director
Ian Farmer                                                                                                                                           Member           Member
4
                                                                                                                                                               4 of 4               2 of 2
1 From 20 July 2011 
2 Ceased to be Chairman (but remained a member) on 20 July 2011
3 From 1 January 2011
4 From 11 November 2010, when the Committee was created.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 68 ]
2.    How the Board of Directors operates (continued)
2.8 How the Committees support the Board in its work (continued)
Each Committee has written terms of reference, approved by the Board, summarising its objectives, remit and powers. All
Committee members are provided with appropriate induction on joining their respective Committees, as well as ongoing
access to training. Minutes of all meetings of the Committees (save for private sessions of Committee members at the end 
of meetings) are circulated to all Directors and presented by the Committee Chairmen at the next Board meeting. The
Committee Chairmen attend the AGM to answer any questions on the Committees’ activities.
The interaction between the Board, its Committees and the management of the Company can be summarised as follows:
2.9 How the Board manages conflicts of interest
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid actual or potential conflicts of interest. As permitted in law, the Board is empowered
to ‘authorise’ such conflicts and has a documented procedure in place. This requires that when a Director becomes aware
that he or she:
• is in a ‘situation’ which does or could create a conflict of interests; or
• has an interest in an existing or proposed transaction in which the Company has an interest 
then they are required to notify the Board in writing of the situational or transactional conflict as soon as possible, and certainly
prior to any transaction being concluded. Directors have a continuing duty to update the Board on any changes to their other
appointments and in any event the Board carries out an annual review. The interests of new Directors are reviewed in the
recruitment process and authorised (if appropriate) by the Board at the first meeting following their appointment. An annual
review of the Directors’ external business interests and other appointments was carried out in March 2011. 
Other than the agreements relating to the investment by Shanduka Resources (Proprietary) Limited (a company ultimately
controlled by Cyril Ramaphosa) in Incwala, the Company’s BEE partner and the loans made by the Company to facilitate that
investment, further details of which are set out in paragraph 4.4 below, no Director had a material interest in any contract of
significance in relation to the Company’s business at any time during the year or to the date of this report.
The interests in the Company’s shares of the Directors who held office during the year, and to the date of this report are
shown in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 82 to 99. Save for Mr Ramaphosa, no Director held any beneficial
interest in the share capital of any other Group company at any time during the year or to the date of this report.
2.10 How we support the Board
The Board is supplied with regular, comprehensive and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables it to
discharge its duties. All Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries of the Executive Directors or management
whenever necessary, and have access to the services of the Company Secretary. There is a procedure in place for Directors
to take independent professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the Company’s expense.
The Board is provided with detailed insight into shareholders’ views including, where appropriate, the opportunity to meet
major investors. Copies of sell-side analysts’ notes on the Company are circulated to all Directors, as are summaries of their
views collected anonymously by the Company’s financial PR advisors and summaries of shareholders’ views collated by the
Company’s joint brokers. 
Directors’ Report – Governance
Board of Directors
Executive 
Committee
(Executive Directors, 
Chief Commercial Officer 
and three Executive 
Vice Presidents plus 
one nominee of 
Shanduka Resources)
Operations 
Committee
(Executive Committee 
members, operational 
& functional VPs and 
certain executives and 
senior managers)
Price & Risk 
Committee
(Executive Directors, 
Chief Commercial Officer, 
Head of Tax, Treasury & Risk,
Head of Accounting & Reporting,
Executive Manager, Marketing)
Chief Executive
Officer
Audit & Risk
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Safety &
Sustainability
Committee
Transformation
Committee
Key: Board Committees
Management Committees [ 69 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
2.    How the Board of Directors operates (continued)
2.11Directors’ remuneration 
A report on Directors’ remuneration is set out on pages 82 to 99. 
2.12 Protection available to Directors 
In law, Directors are ultimately responsible for most aspects of the Company’s business dealings. As a consequence, they
face potentially significant personal liability under criminal or civil law, or the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure & Transparency
Rules, and face a range of penalties including private or public censure, fines and/or imprisonment. The Company believes
that it is in the Company’s best interests to protect the individuals prepared to serve on its Board from the consequences of
innocent error or omission, as it enables us to attract prudent individuals to act as Directors.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a Directors’ & Officers’ liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain
circumstances for the benefit of Group personnel including the Directors. The insurance policy does not provide cover where
the Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
As permitted by law, Deeds of Indemnity have been issued which, in general terms, protect all past, present and future
Directors and officers of the Company from all costs and expenses incurred in the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings
in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings are otherwise disposed of without a finding of fault or where
there is a successful application to court for relief from liability. Under the terms of these indemnities, the Company may
advance money to fund a Director’s defence costs which, should the Director not be exonerated, would be repayable to the
Company. The indemnities are expressed to operate only to the extent that the Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance policy
fails to respond to a claim. All these indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and to the date of this report.
3.    Relations with shareholders
3.1 Owners of the Company
Lonmin Plc has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and our UK share register has circa 15,000 registered
shareholders. We also have a secondary listing on the JSE Securities Exchange, South Africa. Our South African branch
register has approximately 3,000 beneficial owners of our shares, including those who hold their shares in dematerialised form
in STRATE, representing approximately 21% of the Company’s shares in issue. We also have a sponsored Level I American
Depositary Receipts programme, with around 700 participants.
Like most listed companies, ownership of the Company’s shares is concentrated in a number of institutional and other
corporate shareholders. The Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in 3% or more of the
Company’s total voting rights up to 11 November 2011:
Percentage of the Company’s 
total shares and voting rights
                                                                                                                                         Number of shares            At date of            At date of            Nature of 
                                                                                                                                          and voting rights         notification           this report               Holding
Xstrata Plc                                                                                            49,826,225            24.67            24.59            Direct
Prudential plc group companies                                                            17,322,632              8.54              8.55            Direct
Legal & General Group Plc                                                                      7,706,524              3.99              3.80            Direct
Ameriprise Financial, Inc.                                                                         6,158,652              3.04              3.04          Indirect 
All ordinary shares of the Company carry the same rights, and no shareholder enjoys any preferential rights, regardless of the
size of their holding.
3.2 How we communicate with our institutional shareholders
The Code encourages dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives. The
Executive Directors have regular discussions with institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in the Company’s
best interests, but no information is shared which is not available to shareholders generally. Detailed feedback from these visits
is shared with the Board and investors’ views in relation to governance and remuneration obtained ahead of the AGM are also
collated for the Board. 
The Chairman periodically offers key shareholders the opportunity of meetings with either himself or the Senior Independent
Director to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters shareholders wish to raise. In addition, the Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee has given a standing invitation to key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies to
discuss the Company’s remuneration policy and practice whenever necessary.
The Senior Independent Director (SID), Michael Hartnall, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact
through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate. He will retire from the
Board in January 2012, and Jim Sutcliffe has accepted the Board’s invitation to become the SID from that date onwards.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 70 ]
3.    Relations with shareholders (continued)
3.3 How we communicate with our private shareholders
The Code urges boards to use the AGM to communicate with private investors and to encourage their participation, and the
Board has followed these principles for many years. A business presentation is given to shareholders at the AGM by the CEO,
and all Directors are available to answer questions both formally at the meeting and informally afterwards.
Shareholders vote on separate resolutions on substantially different issues, and we use electronic poll voting, with the results
being announced to the markets and displayed on our website at the conclusion of the AGM. Recognising Lonmin’s
geographical diversity, this enables the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account whether they are able to attend the
meeting or not and also provides a highly democratic voting method. 
In line with best practice, our default means of communication with shareholders is online. This saves the expense, paper and
other resources that would be entailed in printing and distributing large numbers of documents without knowing whether they
are wanted. Shareholders can opt to receive paper documents at any time, should they so wish. In recognition of the needs of
private shareholders, the Company’s website contains a range of investor relations materials, including up-to-date information
on the Group’s activities (including our public reporting documents) and copies of all presentation materials given to
institutional investors.
3.4 The AGM
The 2012 AGM will be held at 11.00 a.m. on Thursday, 26 January 2012 at The Assembly Hall, Church House Conference
Centre, Dean’s Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ. A separate circular containing the Notice of Meeting, together with an
explanation of the items of special business has been sent to all shareholders and is available on the Company’s website.
Among the resolutions to be proposed are those seeking shareholders’ authority for the Directors to be empowered to allot
equity securities, a limited dis-application of the statutory pre-emption rights and an authority for the Company to make
market purchases of its own shares. Full details are set out in the AGM circular.
3.5 Dividend
As noted in the Chairman’s Letter on pages 4 to 5, the Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 15 cents per
share to be paid, subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, on 3 February 2012 to shareholders on the registers 
at the close of business on 13 January 2012. Under our dividend policy, the Board no longer declares interim dividends, and
this final dividend (if approved by shareholders) will be the total dividend for the year ended 30 September 2011 of 15 cents
per share (total dividend 2010 – 15 cents per share).
4.    The Company’s business and statutory disclosures
4.1 What Lonmin does
The principal activities of the Group during the year continued to be mining, refining and marketing of PGMs. Details of
revenue, operating profit, principal activities and segmental analysis appear in note 2 to the accounts and a list of the principal
subsidiary undertakings, indicating their main activities, appears in note 30. Detailed information on the Group’s activities can
be found in the Business Review.
In addition to the business conducted by its subsidiary undertakings, Lonmin Plc operates in South Africa through a branch
which is registered in that country as an external company.
4.2 Business Review
The Companies Act 2006, section 417 requires that the Directors present a Business Review in this report to inform
shareholders and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information that fulfils this requirement can be found in the sections set out below and is incorporated by reference into
this report. For the purposes of DTR 4.1.5R(2) and DTR 4.1.8R, the management report is the Business Review consisting of
all the sections referred to below:
• The Chairman’s Letter on pages 4 and 5;
• The Chief Executive Officer’s Review on pages 6 to 9;
• The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) on pages 10 and 11;
• The discussion of the Company’s Business Model and Strategy on pages 12 to 15;
• The Transformation section on pages 16 to 19;
• The Operational Review on pages 20 to 30;
• The Financial Review on pages 31 to 35;
• The discussion of Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 36 to 40;
• The Sustainability Review on pages 41 to 59;
• The discussion of essential contractual arrangements on page 73;
• The Operational Statistics on pages 150 to 152; and
• This Directors’ Report,
which collectively contain a discussion of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and
position of the Company’s business.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 71 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
4.    The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
4.2 Business Review (continued)
We have been mindful of the best practice guidance published by DEFRA and other bodies in relation to environmental,
community and social KPIs, and the recommendations of the Association of British Insurers in those areas, when drafting this
Business Review.
The Business Review has been prepared to provide the Company’s shareholders with a fair review of the business of the
Company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces. It may not be relied upon by anyone, including the
Company’s shareholders, for any other purpose. The Business Review is designed to provide shareholders with an understanding
of the Company’s business and the environment in which it operates, and, of necessity, only focuses on material issues and
facts. The omission of reporting on any specific topic should not be taken as implying that it is not being addressed.
The Business Review and other sections of this report contain forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking
statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and/or depend on
circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from
those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. No assurance can be given that the forward-looking
statements in the Business Review will be realised. Statements about the Directors’ expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans,
intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions as to future
events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases outside the Company’s control. The information contained
in the Business Review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to Directors at the date of
its preparation and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise the Business Review during the
financial year ahead (other than as required by law or regulation). It is believed that the expectations set out in these forward-
looking statements are reasonable, but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or
trends to differ materially. The forward-looking statements should be read in particular in the context of the specific risk factors
for the Company identified in the Business Review. The Company’s shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
the forward-looking statements. Shareholders should note that the Business Review has not been audited or otherwise
independently verified.
4.3 Principal events of the year
The principal events of the year are covered in the Business Review. 
Post year end, on 3 October 2011, the Company announced a conditional share subscription agreement with the Company’s
BEE partner, Shanduka Group (Proprietary) Limited (“Shanduka”). This transaction is subject to a number of conditions
precedent, including a successful Feasibility Review of the proposed development and expansion of mines situated in
Limpopo Province, South Africa, owned by the Company’s subsidiary, Messina Platinum Mines Limited (“Messina”). As
envisaged, Shanduka will be entitled to subscribe for 50% plus one share in the enlarged issued share capital of Messina and
will also become the operator of these assets. The principal objectives of this transaction are to create value for Lonmin
shareholders from these existing semi-dormant assets, to support Shanduka in becoming an operational platinum miner 
and thereby to assist the Company in meeting its Mining Charter Phase Two equity target of 26% ownership by HDSAs by 
30 September 2014.
There were no other material events from 30 September 2010 to the date of this report.
4.4 Transactions with Related Parties
There was one transaction with a related party during the year, other than those of a revenue nature in the ordinary course of
business. This involved the loan of R80 million to Incwala Platinum (Pty) Limited, the Company’s BEE partner as more fully
disclosed in note 26 to the financial statements.
4.5 Employees
The Group employed 27,796 people in South Africa and eight people in the United Kingdom at the end of the year.
Information on the Group’s policies on employee recruitment and engagement can be found in the Sustainability Review on
pages 41 to 59 and the Transformation section on pages 16 to 19.
4.6 Research and development
Group companies continue to be actively involved in research and development in the areas of mineral extraction, processing
and refining to unlock new technology opportunities and to extract optimal value from our assets. Numerous projects are in
progress across the business, including:
• ongoing work on the characterisation of ores, leading to improved specifications for processing equipment and reagents;
• improving the stability and availability of the smelting furnaces through new sensor technologies, better mineralogical
understanding and design improvements;
• development of a new process, for which a provisional patent application has been filed, to significantly upgrade the
PGM concentrates from the BMR leading to an overall waste reduction, reduction in residue tolling costs and improved
PMR efficiencies; and
• development of pilot studies for a new process for the production of finished metals at the PMR.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 72 ]
4.    The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
4.7 Policy on the payment of creditors
The Company complies with, and has registered its support of, the Better Payment Practice Code, available from the Better
Payment Practice Group website, www.payontime.co.uk. The Company pays its bills in accordance with contractual terms,
being either suppliers’ standard terms of payment or alternative terms proposed by the Company. Trade creditors of the
Company at 30 September 2011 represented four days (2010 – seven days) of its annual purchases.
4.8 Charitable and political donations
No political donations were made during the year. Lonmin has an established policy of not making donations to any political
party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Charitable donations made by the Group during the year in the United Kingdom amounted to £2,734 ($4,367) (2010 –
£35,500 ($55,117)). All of these donations were made to further advance the reputation and interests of the Company.
During the year, Group companies undertook a number of long term community development projects in South Africa at a
cost of R8.32 million ($1.13 million) (2010 – R1.3 million ($0.2 million)). These amounts are in addition to amounts expensed
by the Group as the normal costs of implementing its Social & Labour Plans. A fuller explanation of this expenditure is
contained in the Sustainable Development Report for the year which can be downloaded from the Company’s website.
4.9 Share capital and reserves
The issued share capital of the Company at 30 September 2011 is set out in note 24 to the accounts. The rights and
obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares and the provisions relating to their transfer are governed by law and
the Company’s Articles of Association, but holders of ordinary shares are entitled:
• to receive all shareholder documents, including notice of any general meeting; 
• to attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either in person or by proxy; and
• to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
In general there are no restrictions on the holder’s ability to transfer their shares or exercise their voting rights, save in
situations where the Company is legally entitled to do so (usually where amounts remain unpaid on the shares after request, 
or the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company).
In addition to the ordinary shares of $1 each, the share capital also comprises 50,000 sterling deferred shares of £1 each,
which were created in 2002 and issued to a nominee company to comply with the requirement that a public limited company
must have a minimum share capital of £50,000. These shares do not rank equally with the ordinary shares of the Company.
The holders are not entitled to receive notice of, or attend, speak or vote at, any general meeting, nor are they entitled to
participate in any distribution of income or capital.
The total share capital and reserves attributable to the Group amounted to $2,930 million at 30 September 2011.
The Company has established an employee benefit trust, the Lonmin Employee Share Trust, to facilitate various employee
share schemes. The trustee, who is independent of the Company, does not seek to exercise voting rights on the ordinary
shares held in trust, and a dividend waiver is in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of the trust.
Subject to legislation and the Company’s Articles of Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company
including the power to authorise the issue and/or market purchase of the Company’s shares (subject to the authority being
given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting and any conditions attaching to such authority).
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 73 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
4.    The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
4.10 Use of authorities granted at the 2011 Annual General Meeting
At the AGM held on 27 January 2011, shareholders approved three authorities for the Directors in connection with the
Company’s share capital:
                                                                                                                                                                                Amount of authority outstanding at the end
Authority                                                                          Utilisation during the year                                           of the year
Power to allot equity securities with a             The only shares issued during                    Authority remains outstanding in full 
nominal value of up to $67.3m and,                the year were in connection with                until the next AGM or, if earlier, 
if by way of a fully pre-emptive rights issue,    employee share schemes, and                  26 April 2012
a further $67.3m                                             do not count against this authority             
Power to allot equity securities for cash          The only shares issued during the              Authority remains outstanding in full 
other than by way of a pro-rata issue with      year were in connection with                      until the next AGM or, if earlier, 
a nominal value of up to $10.1m                     employee share schemes, and do             26 April 2012
not count against this authority                  
Power to make market purchases of its          The Company made no purchases            Authority remains outstanding in full 
own shares, up to a maximum of                    of its own shares during the year               until the next AGM or, if earlier, 
20,200,000 shares (being approximately                                                                          26 April 2012
10% of the issued share capital) at prices 
not less than the nominal value of each
share (being $1) and not exceeding 105% 
of the average mid-market price for the 
preceding five business days)                                                                                           
No shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
During the year, the Company allotted 364,924 ordinary shares of $1 each for cash, solely to satisfy the exercise of options or
the vesting of awards granted under the Company’s employee share schemes.
4.11 Amendment of the Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
4.12 Essential contractual arrangements
Group companies are party to contracts and other arrangements which the Board judges are essential to the business of the
Company:
• Mineral rights – for any mining company, its mineral titles are of crucial importance and therefore the New Order
Prospecting Rights and New Order Mining Licences granted by the South African Department of Mineral Resources in
respect of our operations in that country fall into this category, as do the various Old Order prospecting and mining rights
currently held pending conversion into New Order rights.
• Contracts for the purchase of materials and services – while most of the inputs needed by the Group’s mines and
refining facilities are secured through competitive tendering in the open market, the Group is heavily dependent on two
State-owned near-monopolies, Eskom for the supply of electricity, and Rand Water in respect of the supply of water.
Long term contracts are in place with both vendors and there is extensive engagement, both at industry and Lonmin
levels, with these critical suppliers. 
• Financing arrangements – the Company and Group have a number of loan and other funding facilities with South African
and international banks. These facilities were restructured during the year and are described in more detail in Note 18. 
• Contracts relating to labour – we have formal recognition and collective agreements with trade unions representing the
vast majority of the Group’s employees in South Africa, most notably the NUM, but also CEPPWAWU, Solidarity and
UASA. These govern the relationships between the parties and the basis on which wages and other allowances paid to
our employees will be determined.
• Contracts for the sale of goods – the majority of the Group’s production of PGMs in the year was sold to either BASF or
Mitsubishi. The Group has highly valued long term relationships and contracts with both companies.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 74 ]
4.    The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
4.13 Significant Agreements – change of control
A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid,
such as debt facilities and employee share plans. None of these are deemed to be significant except for the Company’s bank
debt facilities in the amount of approximately $945 million spread across three separate bilateral ZAR facilities and a
syndicated USD facility, which includes seven banks. These facilities contain provisions under which, in the event that new
terms to continue the facility are not agreed within ten days of a change of control in respect of the ZAR facilities and 30 days
in respect of the USD facility, the lender is entitled to give notice cancelling the facility and declaring all outstanding loans
together with accrued interest to become payable within fifteen days of such notice.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or
employment resulting from a change of control, except that certain provisions in some of the Company’s share schemes may
be triggered. Awards made under the Stay & Prosper Plan crystallise immediately following a change of control, although they
only vest and become payable on their normal maturity date (three years from the date of grant) and subject generally to
continued employment of the participant. Directors of the Company are not permitted to hold awards under this Plan. Awards
under the Company’s other share plans will vest on a change of control to the extent specified by the Remuneration
Committee, who will generally take into account the extent to which the performance targets have been met and such other
factors as they believe to be appropriate in line with the rules of the relevant plans. Further information on these plans is in the
Remuneration Committee report on pages 82 to 99.
5.    Accountability and Audit
5.1 Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company Accounts in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under
that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and
applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting
Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of
the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
parent company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors’ Responsibility Statement can be found on page 101.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 75 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
5.    Accountability and Audit (continued)
5.2 How the Directors discharged their responsibilities in this area
• The Lonmin Group financial statements are presented in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, using the 
US Dollar as its reporting currency.
• Details of the Group’s financial risk management are described in the Financial Review on pages 31 to 35 and in the
Statement on Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 36 to 40.
• The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future
and that it is, therefore, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. The Directors
have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing
facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Group’s foreseeable cash requirements.
Please refer to the going concern disclosure in the Financial Review on pages 31 to 35.
5.3 Relationships with the external auditors
The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on the financial statements and certain other
disclosures prepared by the Directors. Following their re-election at the 2011 AGM, KPMG Audit plc acted as the external
auditors to the Lonmin Group throughout the year. The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in London and supported by an
audit partner based in Johannesburg.
As required under section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, so far as each current Director is aware, there is no information
relevant to the audit of which the Company’s auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she
ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any such information and to ensure that the Company’s
auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
6.    The Audit & Risk Committee 
6.1 Role of the Audit & Risk Committee
The Audit & Risk Committee is delegated by the Board with written terms of reference, last reviewed by the Board in January
2007. The primary purposes of the Audit & Risk Committee are:
• To monitor the integrity of the Company’s financial statements and regulatory announcements relating to its financial
performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements;
• To keep under review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls and risk management systems;
• To monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its material findings; and
• To oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement,
monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness and ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to
provide non-audit services is appropriately applied.
6.2 Composition of the Audit & Risk Committee
The members of the Committee are named in section 2.8 of this document and their biographical details can be found on
pages 60 and 61. Len Konar and Michael Hartnall have considerable financial and accounting experience and Jim Sutcliffe
and Karen de Segundo contribute to the Committee with their significant corporate experience.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the CEO, CFO, Head of Accounting & Reporting, Head of Treasury, Risk & Tax,
Head of Internal Audit and the Assistant Company Secretary (who acts as secretary to the Committee), none of whom do so
as of right. The internal and external auditors attend Committee meetings and a private meeting is routinely held with each of
them to afford the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management. 
6.3 Number of Audit & Risk Committee meetings and attendance
The Committee met four times during the year. Attendance at these meetings is shown in section 2.8 of this document.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 76 ]
6.    The Audit & Risk Committee 
6.4 Activities of the Audit and Risk Committee during the year
The Committee has an annual workplan, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Committee
considers at each meeting in addition to matters of topical relevance or on which the Committee has otherwise chosen to
focus. Activities in the year:
Internal controls and risk                                        External auditors                                                                  Financial reporting
• Received reports from the external     •    Reviewed reports on audit findings            •    Reviewed the half year and
auditors and internal auditors on                                                                                       annual financial statements 
their audits and assessment of the     •    Agreed the audit approach and                       and the significant financial 
control environment                                  scope of the audit work to be                          reporting judgements
                                                                 undertaken by the external auditors 
• Reviewed feedback from the                    and the fees for the same                          •    Reviewed the liquidity risk and
assurance letters submitted by                                                                                         the basis for preparing the
around 80 senior managers across     •    Considered non-audit work                             Group accounts on a going
the Group                                                 undertaken by the external auditors                 concern basis and reviewed 
                                                                 and compliance with the policy                        the related disclosures in the
• Reviewed output from the risk                                                                                          annual report
reviews which required managers,      •    Considered the independence of the 
the Exco and the Board to identify            auditors and their effectiveness                  •    Reviewed disclosures in the 
risks and evaluate them before and          based on the feedback from a survey              annual report in relation to 
after mitigating controls were agreed        targeted at various stakeholders                      internal controls, risk 
and implemented                                      and the Committee’s own assessment            management, principal risks 
                                                                                                                                         and uncertainties and the work 
• Agreed the internal audit programme                                                                                of the Committee
and considered the effectiveness 
of the internal auditors                                                                                                •    Reviewed the Quarter four and 
                                                                                                                                         Quarter two production reports
• Considered the level of alignment 
between the Company’s key risks 
and internal audit programme
• Considered and approved the 
structure, scope of cover and 
renewal terms of the Group’s 
insurance programme
• Assessed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal control environment
• Received matters reported to the 
external whistleblowing hotline and 
a report from the investigations 
department
6.5 Internal audit
The Head of Internal Audit reports jointly to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and to the CFO. He heads an internal
audit department comprising five in-house auditors, supported by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) who provide specialist
services in connection with matters such as IT security and treasury, which it would be impractical to resource internally.
A total of 58 assignments were undertaken during the year across a broad cross-section of activities identified by both management
and the Committee, and which align with the principal risks faced by the Company. Internal audit reports are reviewed with
operational management and then delivered to the Exco. Audit findings and the related management actions are tracked and
verified periodically by Internal Audit after being reported by management as complete. Material findings and recommendations
are summarised to the Committee, who receive regular updates on progress in addressing the matters raised by internal
audits. All action points are recorded on a database to facilitate monitoring and accountability.
The Head of Internal Audit is also responsible for the Company’s whistle-blowing programme and heads up the investigations
unit comprising thirteen investigators. The primary focus of this team is on the theft of PGMs, but they also have a significant
workload in helping counter copper cable theft, white collar crime and other criminal and unauthorised activities impacting the
business.
A review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit was carried out during the year by way of a questionnaire completed by those in
the business who had been audited and the external auditors. Having considered the results of this survey and a number of
other factors, including the quality of reporting to the Committee and impartiality of the internal auditors, the Committee
concluded that Internal Audit was in all respects effective.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 77 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
6.    The Audit & Risk Committee 
6.6 External audit
The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for oversight of the external auditors including approving the annual work plan and,
on behalf of the Board, the audit fee. The Committee believes that in certain limited areas it is in the Company’s and its shareholders’
interests to engage the external audit firm to deliver certain services, given their detailed understanding of the Group.
As a safeguard against the objectivity and independence of the external auditors being compromised, the Company adopted
an Audit Engagement Policy in 2010, a copy of which is available on the Company’s website. Under this policy, the external
auditors are not permitted to perform any work that they may subsequently need to audit or which might otherwise either
create a conflict of interests or affect the auditors’ objectivity and independence. The Committee monitors the balance
between audit, audit related and non-audit spend to ensure that auditor independence is maintained. 
The policy provides for the following annual authorisation limits: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Audit-related           Non-audit 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 services              services
Chief Financial Officer                                                                                                                          $200,000      $100,000
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee                                                                                             $500,000      $250,000
Audit & Risk Committee                                                                                                                   > $500,000   > $250,000
Fees for non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to $0.2 million (2010 – $0.1 million) representing 10.5% of the
audit and audit related fees. Details of the fees paid for audit services, audited-related services and non-audit services can be
found in note 4 to the financial statements. 
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit-related and non-audit fees are not material relative to the income of
the external audit offices and firm as a whole, and that the nature of the services provided are appropriate and in line with the
Company’s policy in this area.
The Audit & Risk Committee has evaluated the performance, independence and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their
effectiveness as external auditors. As part of this process, the Committee considered feedback on the year’s audit gathered
through a survey facilitated by the Secretary to the Committee. Respondents to the survey included the financial management
team at corporate and business level and the internal auditors. The following factors were also considered:
• The external auditors’ compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional guidance on the rotation of partners;
• The external auditors’ qualifications, expertise and resources and their own assessment of their internal quality
procedures; and 
• The stability and continuity that would be provided by continuing to use KPMG, particularly following the transition of the
head office finance function from the United Kingdom to South Africa.
After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that the external auditors were effective and has
recommended to the Board that their re-election at the AGM should be proposed to shareholders. The Committee also
approved the auditors’ remuneration having first compared the proposed fees to the prior year’s fees and also relative to other
companies of similar size and nature. 
7.    Nomination Committee
7.1 Role of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is delegated by the Board with written terms of reference, last reviewed by the Board in
November 2006. The primary purposes of the Committee are: 
• To ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge
and experience of the Board is undertaken;
• To recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to instigate and manage the recruitment process;
• To ensure the Company’s adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above; and
• To oversee compliance with the Code and other applicable corporate governance regulations.
The Committee reports its material findings and recommendations to the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes are
circulated to all Directors.
7.2 Composition of the Nomination Committee 
All of the Non-executive Directors are members of the Committee save for Cyril Ramaphosa and Mahomed Seedat, both of
whose counsel would be sought whenever appropriate. The Chairman of the Board chairs the Committee, except when the
matters under consideration relate to him or succession to his role. Similarly, where a matter under discussion related to their
own position, that Non-executive Director leaves the meeting. Biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 60
and 61.
The Committee is supported by the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and it has full
access to the CEO. It is also empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisors as it sees fit
to assist with its work.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 78 ]
7.    Nomination Committee (continued)
7.3 Number of Nomination Committee meetings and attendance
The Committee met twice during the year. Attendance at these meetings is shown in section 2.8 of this document. 
7.4 Activities of the Nomination Committee during the year
During the year, the Committee:
• Reviewed the Committee’s report within the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts and recommended approval of this to the
Board;
• Evaluated the effectiveness and commitment of those Directors standing for re-election to the Board, whether on an
annual basis or following their first appointment to the Board, concluding that each was able, committed and effective in
their roles and had sufficient time to fulfil their duties;
• Recommended to the Board that new three year terms of office be offered to David Munro, Karen de Segundo and Jim
Sutcliffe, subject to their re-election to the Board at the AGM; 
• Considered the composition of the Board in the light of Michael Hartnall’s intention to retire at the 2012 AGM and
recommended to the Board not to appoint another Non-executive Director; and 
• Reviewed the composition of the Board Committees in light of Michael Hartnall’s intended retirement and recommended
the appointments of Len Konar as Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee, Karen de Segundo as a member of the
Remuneration Committee and David Munro as a member of the Transformation Committee. The Committee also
recommended that Jim Sutcliffe be appointed Senior Independent Director from the date of Michael Hartnall’s retirement.
7.5 Our policy on appointments to the Board
As noted in the Chairman’s Letter on page 5 and in section 2.3 above, all recommendations for Board appointments are
made on merit and against objective criteria and take into account the benefits of diversity in all its forms. A job specification is
drawn up which includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of the time commitment required. Generally,
the Committee will engage executive search consultants, or consider open advertising, to assist in ensuring a comprehensive
listing of potential candidates from a range of backgrounds for the Committee’s consideration.
Mahomed Seedat was appointed as a Non-executive Director during the year through an objective process run by the
Nomination Committee during the prior financial year. He brings extensive knowledge of the South African mining industry,
sound judgement and, as a Historically Disadvantaged South African, his valuable personal perspective on the need for the
Company to meet its transformation imperatives. As he had worked for the Company in a senior executive role for three years,
the Nomination Committee had a deep understanding of his capabilities, and did not feel it necessary to bear the costs of an
external search consultancy or open advertising.
8.    Safety & Sustainability Committee 
8.1 Role of the Safety & Sustainability Committee
The Safety & Sustainability Committee is delegated by the Board with written terms of reference, last reviewed by the Board in
March 2008. The primary purposes of the Committee are:
• To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board and, as necessary to the Audit & Risk Committee, on safety and
sustainability including health, environment and community matters, and particularly as pertaining to the risk and
management of these issues within the Group;
• To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board on the Group’s compliance with applicable legal and regulatory
requirements associated with safety and sustainability;
• To assess the effectiveness of management’s attitudes and approach towards, and activities in, managing safety and
sustainability related risk;
• To assess periodically the effectiveness of the Group’s policies, standards and systems for identifying and managing
safety and sustainability related risk;
• To review significant safety and environmental incidents and consider causative factors, consequences and actions
including the impact on employees and third parties and reputational risk;
• To review the Group’s performance indicators in connection with safety and sustainability matters;
• To review the Group’s public disclosures on safety and sustainability matters and approve these as necessary; and
• To report to the Board on developments, trends and/or forthcoming significant legislation on safety and sustainability
matters which may be relevant to the Group’s operations, its assets or employees.
More detailed information concerning the Group’s sustainability related activities is set out on pages 41 to 59, and in the
Sustainable Development Report, which can be downloaded from the Company’s website.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 79 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
8.    Safety & Sustainability Committee (continued)
8.2 Composition of the Safety & Sustainability Committee 
The members of the Committee are disclosed in section 2.8 of this document and their biographical details can be found on
pages 60 and 61.
At the request of the Committee’s Chairman, the EVP – Processing (who is responsible for sustainability issues for the Group),
the EVP – Mining and the Assistant Company Secretary (who acts as Secretary to the Committee) attend all meetings of the
Committee. The Head of Tax, Treasury and Risk also attends certain meetings. Other managers attend as necessary when
their specialist expertise is required, or incidents have occurred in operations under their control.
8.3 Number of Safety & Sustainability Committee meetings and attendance
The Committee met four times during the year. Attendance at these meetings is shown in section 2.8 of this document.
8.4 Activities of the Safety & Sustainability Committee during the year
The Committee has an annual workplan, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Committee
considers at each meeting in addition to matters of topical relevance or on which the Committee has otherwise chosen to
focus. Activities in the year:
Safety                                                                       Sustainability                                                                        Governance, regulatory and reporting 
• Received reports from accountable    •    Received reports from accountable           •    Reviewed changes to local and 
managers on fatalities and all                    managers on all serious environmental             international safety, health and 
serious safety incidents including              incidents including a detailed analysis              environmental regulations
a detailed analysis of factors                     of factors contributing to an incident 
contributing to an incident and the           and the corrective and preventative           •    Considered feedback from 
corrective and preventative measures       measures taken to prevent recurrence             external auditors following their 
taken to prevent recurrence                                                                                              assurance review of selected 
                                                          •    Reviewed reports on key indicators                 data in the annual report and 
• Reviewed reports on key safety                and trends                                                       Sustainable Development 
indicators and trends                                                                                                        Report
                                                          •    Reviewed reports on health and 
• Reviewed outcome of safety maturity         community indicators and trends               •    Reviewed key sustainability 
audit and reviewed strategic plan to                                                                                  related risks and associated 
improve safety                                    •    Considered the potential impact of                  mitigation plans
emerging climate change regulation 
in South Africa and reviewed the                •    Reviewed disclosures in the 
Company’s strategy to manage                       annual report and sustainable 
the implications of the same                            development report
                                                          •    Considered report on legal, regulatory 
and environmental issues concerning 
water management and reviewed 
progress on Group’s integrated water 
management strategy
9.    Transformation Committee
9.1 Role of the Transformation Committee
The Transformation Committee was created by the Board in November 2010 and has powers summarised in its terms of
reference. The primary purpose of the Transformation Committee is to ensure that the Company meets or exceeds its
commitments and obligations and that the interests of all stakeholders (including shareholders) are properly recognised in the
areas of transformation and empowerment and it supports the Board in the following areas:
• To develop strategies, policies and processes and set goals and targets for transformation and empowerment, and
assess the means by which such strategies are proposed to be implemented and goals achieved, with the goal of
ensuring there is a disciplined, co-ordinated and sustainable approach to transformation; 
• To monitor, review and evaluate progress made by management in meeting the Company’s obligations in respect of
transformation and empowerment, including the Company’s adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements
and external commitments made in relation to the same; 
• To ensure effective communication on transformation issues between management, the Board and various stakeholders;
and
• To guide and otherwise provide encouragement and counsel to management in relation to transformation and
empowerment.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 80 ]
9.    Transformation Committee (continued)
9.2 Composition of the Transformation Committee 
The members of the Committee are disclosed in section 2.8 of this document and their biographical details can be found on
pages 60 and 61. Meetings of the Committee are attended by the EVP – Human Capital & External Affairs and the Company
Secretary (who acts as secretary to the Committee), neither of whom do so as of right. Other senior managers attend as
needed when specialist input is required. 
9.3 Number of Transformation Committee meetings and attendance
The Committee met twice during the year. Attendance at these meetings is shown in section 2.8 of this document.
9.4 Activities of the Transformation Committee during the year
The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of reference with standing items that the Committee
considers at each meeting in addition to matters of topical relevance or on which the Committee has otherwise chosen to
focus. Activities in the year:
• Reviewed the Committee’s terms of reference and recommended approval of the same to the Board; 
• Reviewed the Committee’s annual workplan;
• Considered an analysis of future employment needs and reviewed HR strategy and current initiatives to assess how
Lonmin was placed to manage its challenges in this area;
• Reviewed the revised Social and Labour Plan (SLP) to be submitted to government following the 2010 revision of the
Mining Charter and recommended approval of this to the Board;
• Reviewed progress against 2011 objectives and 2014 targets in relation to the SLP , and transformation generally;
• Considered strategic options in relation to meeting the Mining Charter target of 26% HDSA equity participation by 2014;
• Considered distribution of value-added amongst various stakeholders (as shown on page 19); and
• Reviewed key performance indicators and trends.
10.  Executive Committee
The members of the Exco are the Executive Directors and senior executives as set out on page 62. The members include one
member nominated by Shanduka Resources, the Company’s principal BEE investor who has no executive responsibilities, but
who participates fully in the Committee’s activities. The CEO chairs the Committee, which meets monthly. Its responsibilities
include the following key areas:
• To develop strategy for submission to the Board;
• To develop, implement and monitor operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets;
• To review financial performance, forecasts and targets;
• To prioritise initiatives and allocate resources;
• To identify and drive efficiencies across the Group;
• To approve capital expenditure proposals within the authority levels delegated by the Board and otherwise recommend to
Board;
• To develop and monitor the Group’s policies and practices in respect of health, safety and environmental matters taking
into account legal requirements, regulations and best practice;
• To review ICAM findings for all serious incidents;
• To oversee risk management including identifying risks and developing and implementing risk mitigation plans; 
• To develop and monitor the internal control environment; and
• To develop and implement Group wide evaluation, training, reward and remuneration practices and manage wage
negotiations / benefits with unions.
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 81 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
11.  Operations Committee
The members of the Operations Committee are the members of the Exco and a wider group of around 25 operational and
functional executives and senior managers across the Group. The CEO is Chairman of the Operations Committee. The
Committee meets once every month and its primary responsibilities are:
• To assess operational and financial performance across the business including mining, processing, technical services,
human capital, safety, environment and health;
• To monitor progress of various initiatives; and
• To provide a forum to debate business issues between various parts of the business value chain.
12.  Price & Risk Committee
The Price & Risk Committee is chaired by the CEO and the members are the CFO, Chief Commercial Officer, Head of
Treasury, Tax & Risk, Head of Financial Planning and Analysis and the Executive Manager, Marketing. The primary purpose of
this Committee is to review and agree proposals in relation to the forward sale of by-products, principally nickel and copper.
The Committee meets as and when required.
For and on behalf of the Board
Rob Bellhouse
Company Secretary
11 November 2011
Directors’ Report – Governance [ 82 ]
Dear Fellow Shareholder,
I am pleased to introduce the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2011 which
has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board. This is a year in which
executive pay generally has been under intense public scrutiny, with various reform proposals made from across
the political spectrum. The Committee is sensitive to these public concerns, and understands the importance of
its role in striking the right balance between protecting shareholders’ interests by not allowing payment in the
absence of performance, but conversely by providing reward to management where there has been genuine
achievement.
Committee activities
The Committee met four times during the year to consider the normal cycle of approvals. Other than implementing
the changes made in FY2010, there has been no material change to Lonmin’s remuneration policy or practices
in FY2011. As a result, while we had various informal contacts with investors, there were no formal consultations
during the year. As always, we are available and happy to discuss remuneration matters with our shareholders.
Strategic alignment of our pay programme
It is important that our executives are focussed on doing the things that will make a difference to Lonmin in both
the short and longer term. The annual bonus plan, the BSC, has for some years incentivised strategically
important business metrics and there is a clear alignment between the Corporate KPIs (on pages 10 and 11 of
the Business Review) and both the FY2011 and FY2012 BSC metrics. Safety is one of the biggest risks in our
business, and this is one of our BSC metrics. Our long term incentive plan performance hurdles are based on
the combined results of the BSCs over three financial years together with the delivery of value to shareholders
(measured by our Relative Total Shareholder Return (RTSR)), providing a further tie to our strategy. Our
shareholding requirements and deferred pay system provide further long term alignment of management with
shareholders in respect of both risks and rewards.
FY2011 pay reflects performance
The corporate elements of the FY2011 BSC saw 43.0% points being earned out of the overall 80% available 
at target. There is full disclosure of each bonus metric on page 93. FY2011 was a year heavily affected by the
safety stoppages in April following a series of fatalities, and the illegal strike at Karee in May. Generally, our
processing results were good and our capital development met target, but we missed our original production
targets and unit costs were higher than we hoped as a result. Most of the long term incentives that were due 
to vest this year failed to hit their minimum targets as a result of matters discussed in prior years’ reports, and
hence failed to pay anything out. The Committee has considered these outcomes and chose not to exercise
discretion. The Committee hopes that both management and shareholders will benefit in future. 
Proposed future changes
We do not propose any material changes to the structure or levels of pay in FY2012. As the BSC incentivises
key strategic KPIs, we do not publish the details of targets in advance, but no material changes to the metrics
themselves are contemplated. 
AGM
This report is subject to an advisory vote at the AGM on 26 January 2012, and I have no hesitation in
recommending the report to you. We will be happy to answer questions at the AGM and will, as always, be
interested in your input at any time.
Yours faithfully,
Jim Sutcliffe
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 83 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
ROLE, STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee has powers delegated to it by the Board as set out in terms of reference available on the Company’s website.
These were last updated in November 2005. The Committee’s main responsibilities are to:
• determine and agree with the Board the Company’s executive remuneration strategy and policy;
• determine individual remuneration packages and terms of employment within that policy for the Executive Directors and fifteen
other senior executives (collectively known as the Purview Group);
• oversee the operation of the Company’s incentive schemes, including designing and setting performance conditions for
annual bonus and long term incentive schemes;
• consider major changes in employee remuneration in the Group
• select and appoint consultants to advise the Committee; 
• report to shareholders through annual reports; and
• make recommendations to the Board on the fees offered to the Non-executive Directors, after taking independent
professional advice;
all of which it carries out on behalf of the Board.
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee comprised the following independent Non-executive Directors during the year and to the date of this report:
Member                                                                                                                                                                                   From                                                    To
Jim Sutcliffe (Chairman)                                                                                             28 January 2009                               To date
Michael Hartnall                                                                                                                 8 May 2003                               To date
Jonathan Leslie                                                                                                                  2 July 2009                               To date
Karen de Segundo                                                                                                           20 July 2011                               To date
Mr Hartnall chaired the Audit & Risk Committee until 20 July 2011, and Mr Leslie chairs the Safety & Sustainability Committee,
which provides the Committee with useful context. Dr de Segundo has extensive executive experience in the natural resources
sector. Mr Sutcliffe has been chief executive of a number of businesses, including a FTSE100 company, in which roles he had
responsibility for designing and implementing remuneration systems in support of those companies’ strategic objectives. The
Board feels that the collective experience of its members enables the Committee to offer a balanced view on executive
remuneration issues.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the CEO, the EVP – External Affairs & Human Capital and the Company Secretary
(who acts as secretary to the Committee), none of whom do so as of right and who do not attend when their own remuneration is
being discussed. The meeting in November 2010 was also attended by the then HR Director. The Committee meets with the CEO
and in private after meetings.
Advisors to the Remuneration Committee
During the year, the Committee was materially assisted in its work by:
Advisor Appointed by Services provided to the Committee                  Other services provided to the Company
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Committee • General advice on                          •    Support management in devising 
(London office) remuneration matters                           remuneration proposals
                                                      •    IFRS2 valuations of share
schemes
                                                      •    PwC South Africa provides
specialist support to the internal
audit function (see page 76)
Herbert Smith LLP Company • Advice on employment                  •    General UK legal advice
law and share schemes
KPMG Audit Plc Committee • Assurance in the form of                •    External auditor and certain other 
limited, specific checking                     services (see page 77)
procedures on the results 
of the BSC                                           
The Committee is confident that none of these cross-relationships generates an unmanageable conflict of interest and that the
sums payable in respect of each service do not compromise the objectiveness and impartiality of the other. The Committee also
receives views and recommendations from the CEO, the Company Secretary and the EVP : External Affairs & Human Capital in
relation to executive remuneration (save in relation to their own pay) and on governance matters.
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 84 ]
ROLE, STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (continued)
Activities of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee met four times during FY2011, in line with its usual practice, with the issues set out below being among the items
discussed:
Meeting Fixed pay issues Annual incentives Long term incentives Governance, risk and other matters
November 2010 • Approve and/or ratify • Receive auditors’ • Approved mandatory • Approved the 
changes to pay of report on FY2010 participation in remuneration report
Purview Group BSC 2010 DABS • Approved proposed 
members • Approve FY2010 • Approved vesting ASAP for shareholder 
• Considered TCTC bonus for payment results for vote at the 2011 AGM
settlements for • Design of FY2011 2007 DABS
Lonmin workforce bonus plan approved
generally, and • Reviewed risk 
benchmark data alignment of the 
in both UK and SA FY2011 BSC
March 2011 • Approve and/or ratify • Reviewed likely • Reviewed vesting • Reviewed PwC’s 
changes to pay of outcome for outcomes in appointment and 
Purview Group FY2011 BSC calendar 2011 decided to retain their 
members • Amended basis of services
vesting for early 
leavers
• Approved an LTIP 
award to a new 
employee
July 2011 • Approve and/or ratify • Reviewed likely • Approved • Review of succession 
changes to pay of outcome for performance condition planning status
Purview Group FY2011 BSC testing of 2008 • Reviewed loss of value
members LTIP/S&P awards for executives on leaving
• Reviewed external • Determined employment
advice on non-executive performance • Reviewed progress 
pay and formed a conditions for against shareholding 
recommendation for 2011 LTIP/S&P obligations
the Board awards • Reviewed UK 
• Approved 2011 governance best practice
LTIP/S&P awards in relation to executive 
pay
September 2011 • Approve and/or ratify • Reviewed the role • Approved an LTIP • Reviewed pay strategy 
changes to pay of and nature of award to a new for FY2012
Purview Group bonuses throughout employee • Reviewed effectiveness 
members Lonmin of the Committee and its 
• Reviewed likely Chairman
outcome for 
FY2011 BSC 
• Initial review of 
FY2012 BSC 
metrics and 
weightings
Attendance at these meetings is reported on page 67. The Committee Chairman presents a summary of material matters to the
Board and minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors. The Committee reports to shareholders annually in this
report and the Committee Chairman attends the AGM to address any questions arising.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
The Committee is provided with information on pay across the Group’s workforce generally and during FY2011 has undertaken a
detailed review of the bonus arrangements in place throughout the business. When debating pay reviews for the Executive
Directors, the Committee is provided with both UK and SA inflation data and also insight into the increases being offered to the
Group’s workforce and other staff members.
Risk alignment
The Committee has considered the alignment of the performance-related pay systems with the Company’s key risks, and believes
that the design of the pay systems incentivises effective risk management, including in relation to environmental, social and
governance risks. The risk of the pay systems themselves causing perverse incentives has also been reviewed by the Committee.
The Annual Share Award Plan (ASAP) contains a “claw back” mechanism, discussed more fully on page 86.
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 85 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
ROLE, STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (continued)
Relations with shareholders
The Committee is strongly committed to open and transparent dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters. In addition,
when it is contemplating change, the Committee consults widely with key institutional investors and their representative bodies. 
At the AGM held in January 2011, the advisory vote on the remuneration report received the support of 97% of those voting, with
holders of less than 1% of the register abstaining or withholding their votes. The Committee Chairman and the Secretary have
responded to a number of queries from shareholders during the year.
REMUNERATION POLICY
Non-executive Directors
The Board reviews Non-executive Directors’ fees every two years to ensure that the Company can continue to attract and retain
individuals of the highest calibre and that the fees offered are in line with market norms. As policy, the base fee for the first year 
of each Director’s appointment is paid in advance, recognising the significant time commitment associated with the induction
process. From the end of that year, all fees are paid monthly in arrears.
Executive Directors and senior executives
The Committee’s remuneration policy seeks to address four objectives:
• Provide a structure and level of pay which attracts and retains executives of the right calibre to execute the Company’s
strategic plans in the face of severe skills shortages in the South African mining industry;
• Provide clear and straightforward incentives on a consistent basis, to reward delivery of key strategic objectives within agreed
risk parameters;
• Ensure that there is fairness in the Company’s pay arrangements such that all reward has been properly earned but, equally
importantly, payment results where this is justified by performance. We believe that fairness in our pay practices is a powerful
tool in retaining employees; and 
• Align the remuneration programme with the interests of the Company’s shareholders.
Different elements of executive pay are delivered over the short and longer terms, which recognise each individual’s personal
contribution:
Each element of the remuneration package has different characteristics, and plays an important role:
Base pay and benefits
Purpose Policy How it operates
Attract and retain executives of the • Base salary reflects market median levels, • Base pay is paid monthly in cash
right calibre to execute the subject to experience and performance • Base pay for UK executives is 
Company’s strategic plans • Executive Directors and UK senior executives supplemented with a car plus fuel  
are benchmarked against other UK listed or cash allowance in lieu, private 
companies of comparable size and, where medical insurance, income 
appropriate, relevant international mining protection insurance and life 
companies assurance and the option of annual 
• Other senior executives in South Africa are medicals
benchmarked against South African • Senior executives based in South 
market practice Africa have a ‘total cost to company’
(TCTC) package which covers base
pay and all benefits. This is in line
with market practice in South Africa 
• Reviewed annually, effective 1 October
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011
Fixed pay Performance-related pay
Annual Long term (delivered over three years)
Base pay
Benefits – car, life and other health
insurances
Pension – contribution or salary
supplement
Shareholding obligation places material amount of personal wealth at risk
Balanced Scorecard (BSC) Bonus
Plan (cash settled)
80% linked to corporate KPIs
20% linked to personal objectives
Value matched and deferred for three
years in an award under the Annual
Share Award Plan
Annual Share Award Plan (ASAP)
(share settled)
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
(share settled) – dependent on 3 year
combined BSC performance and
Relative Total Shareholder Return [ 86 ]
REMUNERATION POLICY (continued)
Executive Directors and senior executives (continued)
Pension
Purpose Policy How it operates
Enable Company to offer • Provide a market competitive level of • Defined contribution funding or cash 
market competitive remuneration provision with good flexibility salary supplement at executive’s 
• Minimise risk to the Company associated choice
with defined benefit plans • All of Lonmin’s defined benefit
pension plans have been wound up
in an orderly manner and the trusts
dissolved
Annual bonus
Purpose Policy How it operates
Incentivise achievement of annual • Only base pay (or, in the case of Simon Scott, • Three levels of performance for each 
objectives consistent with the a notional base salary equal to 80% of TCTC) element: 
medium to long term strategic is bonusable • Threshold: the minimum level of
needs of the business, within the • BSC methodology is used to incentivise achievement for which payment 
Company’s risk tolerances a combination of corporate KPIs and could be warranted (50% of the 
personal objectives, all aligned with target amount payable)
strategic objectives and with the corporate • Target: (100% of the target 
risk register amount payable)
• Bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors • Stretch: significant 
is weighted 80% on the delivery of corporate outperformance and also caps 
targets and 20% on the delivery of personal the bonus for the element (150%
objectives. For other executives, the of the target amount payable)
arrangements are consistent, but greater • FY2011 scheme design provides for 
weight is given to areas of the business CEO/CFO bonus of 83.5% of base 
under the control or influence of the executive salary if performance on every
element was at target, with the
stretch bonus capped at 125% of
base salary
The BSC concept enables the Committee to incentivise the delivery of key strategic objectives across a range of areas, including
risk, environmental, governance and social issues and to address short term imperatives, so the design of the BSC will vary year
on year. The FY2011 BSC design was fully aligned with the corporate strategy and KPIs, and the design was checked against the
corporate risk register by the Committee. The metrics, targets and outcomes are summarised on page 93, and no material change
to the structure of the BSC is proposed for FY2012.
Historically, the Company required executives to invest half of their after-tax bonus in Lonmin shares, to be held in trust and at risk
of forfeiture for three years. Following a ruling by the South African Revenue Service in relation to local income tax legislation, this
structure was neither cost effective for the Company nor tax efficient for participants. At the 2011 AGM shareholders approved 
the ASAP which improves the ease of administration and preserves the tax efficiency of our pay arrangements in South Africa.
Employees are now provided with a cash bonus at half the original level, together with an award under the ASAP equal in value to
the gross annual cash bonus.
Annual Share Award Plan (ASAP)
Purpose Policy How it operates
Emphasise alignment with • Enables Company to mandate investment • Previous bonus halved for ASAP 
shareholders’ interests and provide into Lonmin shares by executives participants
a mechanism for claw back • Pre-grant performance condition as award • Award made of equal gross value to 
size determined by BSC performance Annual Bonus earned in year 
• Rules provide for “claw back” in the event • No post-grant performance 
of a restatement of the results for the year conditions
for which the associated bonus was • Vesting on third anniversary
assessed during the three year holding 
period 
As noted above, the ASAP is a new plan which will operate for the first time in November 2011. The combination of the reduced
annual bonus and the ASAP has the same economic effect and cost as the previous arrangements. The ASAP supersedes the
DABP which will no longer be operated, save in respect of existing awards. Details of the outstanding entitlements under the
DABP are shown in the Appendix.
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 87 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION POLICY (continued)
Executive Directors and senior executives (continued)
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and Stay & Prosper Plan (S&P)
Purpose Policy How it operates
Incentivise long term value creation, • Median performance should lead to median • Annual awards over shares, subject 
and alignment with shareholders’ pay; upper quartile performance should lead to performance conditions for 
interests to potential upper quartile total reward Executive Directors. In line with 
• No formal limit on grant size is contained in South African practice, only 50% of 
the LTIP rules, but the Company has given awards are subject to performance 
a commitment that in normal circumstances conditions for executives below 
these would be limited to 150% of base pay board level
• Our current policy is that awards are settled • Vesting percentage is based on a 
through the issue of new shares performance metric combining the
corporate elements of the BSC
(averaged over 3 years) and RTSR
over three years (see page 89)
• Vesting can range from zero to 100%
• Maximum reward will only occur if
every item on the corporate BSC for
each of the 3 years meets stretch
and RTSR exceeds PGM peer group
median by 10% pa
The Committee believes that it is vital to offer long term incentives to those best placed to deliver value for shareholders, so that
they have a direct personal financial interest in so doing. The annual granting of LTIP awards to the Executive Directors and other
executives is also intended to provide participants with the opportunity to earn sufficient reward, subject to delivering value to
shareholders, such that they are motivated to stay in the Group’s employment. As these awards are settled in shares, participants
have a further link to shareholder value.
For historic reasons, awards to managers in our South African operating companies are made under the S&P , a separate plan from
the LTIP . The Executive Directors are not permitted to participate in the S&P . Since the introduction of S&P in 2005 a number of
decisions have meant that its design and operation has converged with that of the LTIP , from which it now differs solely in the
treatment of awards following a change of control of Lonmin Plc. Should such an eventuality arise, S&P awards crystallise in full
but are only payable on their normal vesting date, subject broadly to continued employment. As with the LTIP , S&P awards are
linked to a notional number of shares, 50% of which vest subject to continued employment and 50% of which are linked to
performance targets (EBIT until 2008 and for 2009 and later grants the same performance targets as the LTIP). S&P participants
receive shares or cash (based on the market value of that proportion of the total award that vests) at the end of three years. Our
current policy is that such awards are settled through the issue of new shares.
Shareholding obligation
Purpose Policy How it operates
Alignment with shareholders’ • Executives are expected to amass • Target shareholding (including vested
interests by requiring executives (over five years) and then maintain a but unexercised share incentives) 
to hold material personal wealth material holding of Lonmin shares should be equal in value to:
in Lonmin shares • 300% of base salary (CEO)
• 200% of notional base salary
(CFO)
• 100% of notional base salary
(Exco members)
• 50% of notional base salary
(Other executives)
Lonmin’s business is inherently long term. In 2010 the Committee was asked by shareholders to consider whether the
remuneration programme had sufficiently long term characteristics, and specifically whether the period over which reward is
earned or paid should be longer than the three year vesting periods generally used. The Committee considered extending either
the performance and/or vesting periods of our LTIP , but ultimately felt that the most powerful incentive for the actions of the
Directors to be aligned with shareholders’ interests is for them to build and retain personally significant investments in Lonmin
shares, and increased the target levels to those above. 
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 88 ]
REMUNERATION POLICY (continued)
The role of benchmarking
Benchmarking is useful in identifying facts for a debate about the positioning of our pay relative to market, and identifying the risk
of losing strong performers as a result of prolonged payment below market. 
Strategic alignment of the pay programme
The pay elements detailed above combine to provide a clear incentive for the delivery of operational results and therefore of value
to shareholders, in line with the Committee’s overall objectives. Change is only made where there is a clear rationale, in order to
preserve clarity over the performance expected of participating executives.
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011
Policy objective
Clear incentive for delivery 
of strategic objectives
Alignment with shareholders’ 
long term interests
80% of BSC linked to strategically-
aligned corporate KPIs (see page 93)
20% of BSC linked to stretching
personal objectives aligned to 
strategic goals
ASAP award equal to gross 
bonus earned annually, to be 
held for three years
Shareholding obligation
LTIP performance condition
Corporate KPIs from BSC 
averaged over three financial years
combined with
TSR relative to PGM peer group 
median over three years
Short term incentives Long term incentives
Á
Á
Á Á
Á
Á
Intended effect of policy for Executive Directors
The charts below illustrate the total pay of the Executive Directors for different levels of performance, and the sources of that
remuneration. Threshold is the first point at which any element of bonus is payable, and forms the minimum level of achievement
for which any part of the LTIP awards can vest.
CEO – Ian Farmer
CFO – Simon Scott
At ‘target’ levels of performance, around 55% of the CEO’s total pay arises from performance-related elements, rising to over 70%
at ‘stretch’ levels, at which total pay is capped. The Committee is satisfied that there is a strong incentive for the prudent
management of risk.
500 1,500
(000’s)
2,500 3,500
Below 
Threshold
Target
Stretch
Salary Pensions ASAP Benefits in kind Bonus LTIP
0
Below 
Threshold
Target
Stretch
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
(%)
Below 
Threshold
Target
Stretch
(%)
10 20 0 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 500 1,000 1,500 2,000
Below 
Threshold
Target
Stretch
(000’s)
TCTC ASAP Bonus LTIP [ 89 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011
REMUNERATION POLICY (continued)
Performance conditions
As noted above, long term incentives awarded to the Executive Directors are wholly subject to performance conditions, with half 
of each award made to executives below Board level subject to the same conditions. The alignment of these with the corporate
strategy is of obvious importance, and the Committee considers the relevance of proposed performance conditions prior to
granting awards.
RTSR has always been used by Lonmin as a performance condition. This measure ensures that the remuneration earned by the
executives reflects the actual returns delivered to shareholders through the successful delivery of our strategy. In addition, the
Committee believes that the relative nature of this test provides a measurable and objective reflection of true performance for
shareholders in light of the variability introduced into reported results by metal prices and exchange rates (particularly between the
South African Rand and the US Dollar).
Following meetings with key institutional shareholders in 2010, the Committee decided to introduce a new performance condition
for the future. After exploring a number of options, the Committee concluded that metrics which best incentivise medium-term
value creation existed within the corporate element of the BSC. Moreover, the BSC has been (and will be) constructed to tie closely
to the Company’s overall strategy and has served the Company well through stimulating delivery of key targets. It is of course the
sustained delivery of annual performance that delivers long term success. After further shareholder consultation, the Committee
adopted a performance condition which is based on both the corporate elements of the BSC targets and RTSR, which the
Committee regards as the ultimate goal, in each case measured over three year periods. LTIP and S&P awards made in 2010 and
2011 used this performance condition, and it is expected that it will continue to be used in subsequent years. The matrix below
illustrates the vesting outcomes (as a percentage of the face value of the award, with full interpolation between the points shown)
for the 2010 and 2011 LTIP and S&P awards:
% of face value vesting                                           RTSR result Factor                          Average BSC performance over three years
                                                                              BSC result                                        <Threshold      Threshold            Target  Stretch (Max)
                                                            Factor                                                         0.0x              0.5x              1.0x              1.5x
RTSR performance                              <Median – 5% pa                  0.0x                0%                0%                0%                0%
                                                            Median – 5% pa                    0.5x                0%           8.33%         16.66%              25%
                                                            Median                                  1.0x                0%         16.66%         33.33%              50%
                                                            Median + 5% pa                    1.5x                0%              25%              50%              75%
                                                            Median ≥ + 10% pa               2.0x                0%         33.33%         66.66%            100%
Factors are multiplied and, as maximum is (2.0 x 1.5) = 3, the result is then divided by 3 to derive the vesting percentage.
The matrix shows that the result is more geared to RTSR than to the BSC – even with every BSC item delivering at “stretch”, with
median RTSR the plans deliver only half the face value. On the other hand, it allows the Company to recognise at a low level, in
difficult times, the hard work that needs to be done for quite long periods before the result is recognised in the share price. We also
believe that the use of annual bonus targets as part of our long term incentive programme helps mitigate the risk that results in one
year are at the expense of succeeding years.
Performance conditions are assessed using independently verified data. The results of the BSC are only declared after assurance
on the underlying data has been provided by KPMG, and RTSR is assessed by PwC using data normalised into US Dollars,
sourced from Datastream or other independent providers. 
Historic performance conditions
As seen, LTIP and S&P awards have a three year performance and vesting period. As a result, the Committee oversees a number
of historic performance conditions, using a variety of metrics as detailed below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          % of
                                                   Basis of                                                                                                                                                                         component of
Year of award                             performance conditions               Performance conditions                              Performance                                 award released
2008 (reached                   50% RTSR                        TSR relative to a group of              Threshold (median)                        20%
maturity in FY2011)                                                      20 comparator companies             Target (75th percentile)                  70%
                                                                                                                                          Stretch (90th percentile)               100%
                                          50% EBIT                          EBIT: audited profit for FY2010      Threshold                                        0%
                                                                                                                                          Stretch                                         100%
2009                                  50% RTSR                        TSR relative to a group of              Threshold (median)                        20%
                                                                                    20 comparator companies             Target (75th percentile)                  70%
                                                                                                                                          Stretch (90th percentile)               100%
                                          50% Share Price                Lonmin Plc share price on             Threshold                                      20%
                                                                                    London Stock Exchange               Stretch                                         100% [ 90 ]
REMUNERATION POLICY (continued)
Historic performance conditions (continued)
Prior to 2009, to create a more direct linkage between profitability and the remuneration of the Company’s executives and managers,
EBIT, based on the audited financial results of the Company, was used as a performance condition. During 2009 market conditions
made forecasting EBIT three years forward exceptionally challenging, and the Committee perceived that there was a significant risk
that forecasts might prove to be materially incorrect, potentially resulting in gross unfairness either to the plan participants or
shareholders. After considering a range of possible performance conditions, the Committee decided to use an absolute share
price target in 2009, which was felt to be a fair metric (in that it reflected the value of shareholders’ investments in Lonmin) and
appropriate to the Company’s needs.
The Committee does not wish to disclose the EBIT or share price targets in advance for commercial and regulatory reasons, but
has committed to do so in full after the relevant performance periods end (see page 94 for vesting events in FY2011). 
Comparator groups of companies for RTSR
The Committee regularly reviews the comparator group used for assessing RTSR to ensure that it remains relevant to the
Company’s stated strategy and therefore aligns executives appropriately with shareholders. 
For awards made to 2009, the Committee used a group of twenty metals and mining companies to provide a broadly-based
global mining group with whom the Company was likely to be in competition for executive talent. These companies are as follows:
African Rainbow Minerals Exxaro Resources Rio Tinto 
Anglo American First Quantum Minerals Stillwater Mining
Anglo Gold Ashanti Gold Corp Teck Cominco
Anglo American Platinum Gold Fields Umicore
Antofagasta Impala Platinum Vale
Aquarius Platinum Johnson Matthey Xstrata
BHP Billiton Norilsk Nickel
In measuring RTSR, Lonmin’s relative position in the group is calculated, and reward only accrues if Lonmin is placed at median or
higher. The proportion of the award vesting results from where Lonmin ranks relative to other companies, with full vesting only
occurring if we rank first or second.
For awards made from August 2010 onwards, comparison is to a smaller more relevant group of the five other primary PGM
producers, with whose businesses Lonmin is directly comparable, four of whom also operate principally in South Africa:
Anglo American Platinum Impala Platinum Stillwater Mining
Aquarius Platinum Northam Platinum
Using a ranking approach with only five peers would be extremely sensitive to individual companies’ results and could give rise to
perverse outcomes. We therefore determine Lonmin’s TSR relative to the median of the Group and express this as an annual
under- or out-performance percentage.
Share schemes limitations
No executive share options have been granted since 2003. Save for the historic Sharesave Scheme, no options have been
granted at a discount. No options or awards of any kind have been granted to Non-executive Directors. 
Dilution
The rules of the Company’s employee share plans limit the total commitment to issue new shares across all plans to 10% of the
issued share capital. As the Company does not operate all-employee schemes due to exchange controls and for other local South
African reasons, shareholders have agreed on a number of occasions that the whole of this 10% can be used for discretionary
share plans. In practice, the total commitment is well within the 5% inner limit that would otherwise apply.
Historic Executive Share Options Schemes (ESOS) options are satisfied with new-issued shares. Awards under the LTIP and historic
DABP Matched Awards are satisfied either with shares purchased in the market by the Company’s employee benefit trust or the issue of
new shares. Awards under the S&P are currently settled in new issue shares, but could be settled in cash at the Committee’s discretion.
The table below shows the Company’s current commitment to issue new shares in respect of its long term incentive schemes
assuming (1) all performance conditions are met, (2) all award holders remain in employment to the vesting date and (3) all awards
are settled in new issue shares, in line with the Committee’s current policy:
                                                                                   % of                                            Vested/                                               Other                                                % of 
                                                                      issued share              Granted     shares issued               Lapsed      equity issued                                   issued share 
                                            At 30.09.10                 capital                       (m)                       (m)                       (m)                       (m)         At 30.09.11                 capital
Undiluted issued 
share capital                   202.3                                         –                0.4                   –                   –            202.7                     
Shares under awards          3.4              1.68                1.7               (0.4)              (0.7)                  –                4.0              1.97
Fully diluted issued 
share capital                   205.7                                                                                                                         206.7                     
Limit: 10% in 10 years      20.2                                                                                                                           20.3                     
Remaining headroom       16.8                                                                                                                           16.3                     
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 91 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION POLICY (continued)
Non-Group directorships
It is both the Company’s policy and generally a requirement of the individual’s contract of employment that the Executive Directors
may only take up non-executive directorships or similar appointments with the approval of the Board. The Board would not
normally agree to an Executive Director taking on more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or the
chairmanship of such a company. No Executive Director currently holds any non-executive directorship or other appointment
outside the Group. Whilst it would be considered on a case-by-case basis, any individual holding such a role would generally be
permitted to retain any fees or other payments relating to that appointment.
Notice periods, service contracts and other contractual arrangements
The Company complies fully with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code regarding service contracts. 
Executive Directors’ contracts of employment require lengthy notice of termination from the employee, creating advantage for the
Company by having early warning of the need to appoint a successor. As policy, the Company has committed to give 364 days’
notice of termination to the executives, but may opt to pay in lieu of any unworked period of notice. These payments would
comprise only base salary and contractual benefits.
The Committee is responsible for deciding any payment to be made when an Executive Director’s employment ends and has
regard to the provisions of the Code and other best practice in this area. In doing so, the Committee must balance the need 
to avoid ‘payment for failure’ with the Company’s legal obligations under the contract. The ability of the Company to impose
restrictions on the departing executive, including the non-solicitation of key staff, is important and relevant provisions are 
included in their contracts. The Committee would therefore address the position of any departing executive on the individual 
terms of the case.
Policy stability
The Committee does not anticipate any material changes to the structure of executives’ remuneration packages in FY2012. As 
a result, aside from inflation-linked salary or TCTC increases, the Executive Directors’ potential earnings have not changed since
FY2008.
REMUNERATION IN FY2011
Directors’ remuneration
The total cash remuneration paid to all Directors in FY2011 was £4,278,470 (2010: £4,039,441).
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive fees were reviewed in July 2011 in the light of an independent market review, and no increases were felt to be
warranted. Non-executive Directors’ fees paid during the year were:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total for          Total for
                                                                                                                               Audit                              Safety and                                     year to            year to
Non-executive                                                                Remuneration         and Risk     Nomination  Sustainability Transformation        30.09.11          30.09.10
Directors                           Directorship Chairmanship      Committee      Committee      Committee      Committee      Committee                      £                      £
Karen de Segundo          50,000                        M 1,974   M 10,000     M 7,500     M 7,500                          76,974       75,000
Michael Hartnall              50,000    S 15,000   M 10,000     M 1,936     M 7,500                                            98,503     100,000
                                                                                           C 14,067 
Len Konar                       50,000                                          M 8,000     M 7,500                        M 6,692       75,647       37,644
                                                                                             C 3,455
Jonathan Leslie               50,000                      M 10,000                        M 7,500    C 12,500                          80,000       79,471
David Munro                   50,000                                                             M 7,500     M 7,500     M 1,481       66,481       65,000
Roger Phillimore              50,000  C 200,000                                         C 12,500                                          262,500     262,500
Cyril Ramaphosa             50,000                                                                                                 C 11,154       61,154       11,154
Mahomed Seedat           37,500                                                                                M 5,625     M 5,625       48,750                –
Jim Sutcliffe                    50,000                      C 17,500   M 10,000     M 7,500                        M 6,692       91,692       85,000
TOTAL                          437,500     215,000       39,474       47,458       57,500       33,125       31,644     861,701     715,769
This table and the associated footnote have been subject to audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
Key: C = Chairman, S = Senior Independent Director, M = Member
Note: Fees in FY2010 for Len Konar relate to the period 11 March to 30 September 2010 and for Cyril Ramaphosa to the period 13 July to 30 September
2010. FY2011 fees for Mahomed Seedat relate to the period 1 January to 30 September 2011. Dates of committee service (where not for the whole
year) are set out in the Governance Report on page 67.
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 92 ]
REMUNERATION IN FY2011 (continued)
Directors’ remuneration (continued)
Executive Directors
Fixed pay and benefits
Mr Farmer’s base salary was increased by 2.7% on 1 October 2010, while the TCTC of Mr Scott (who joined the Company in
September 2010) did not change. Mr Ferguson did not receive an increase in the light of the expected redundancy of his role. Pay
elsewhere in the Group increased at that date by between 6% (management payroll) and 8% (unionised manual workers). The
Committee recently approved a 2.5% increase to Mr Farmer’s base salary (to £579,000) and a 2.5% increase to the Mr Scott’s
TCTC from 1 October 2011.
                                                                                                                             Pension/cash                                                                       Total for              Total for
                                                                                Salary              Benefits   payment in lieu                Annual                                             year to                year to
                                                                             or TCTC
1
                in kind
2
         of pension
3
            Bonuses
4
                 Other
5
             30.09.11              30.09.10
                                                                                         £                          £                          £                          £                          £                          £                          £
Ian Farmer                                        565,000        148,639        203,400        283,065          20,525     1,220,629     1,834,335
Alan Ferguson
6
                                 121,900            4,469          36,570        203,194     1,272,739     1,638,872     1,457,670
Simon Scott
7
                                    403,595                   –                   –        153,673                   –        557,268            6,369
Total                                             1,090,495        153,108        239,970        639,932     1,293,264     3,416,769     3,298,374
This table and the associated footnotes have been subject to audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
1 As is usual in South Africa, TCTC includes the cash value of certain benefits which would have been itemised separately for a UK employee. To ensure
that short- or long term incentives do not reflect these items, Simon Scott has a notional salary equal to 80% of his TCTC used for these purposes.
2 Benefits in kind for the UK remunerated Executive Directors comprise cars, fuel, healthcare and medicals. The costs of life assurance and income
protection insurance are not reflected as the Company is the named beneficiary of these policies. Ian Farmer’s total benefits include costs of £121,743
relating to his secondment to South Africa comprising housing allowance, home leave/family visits and local private medical insurance.
3 Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson each opted for their pension entitlements to be paid in cash. The figure disclosed for Ian Farmer is in relation to this cash
payment and the pension supplement explained below.
4 As noted on page 86, the Executive Directors’ bonus opportunity has been halved from that in FY2010 but the Company will make an ASAP award of
equal gross value. 
5 ‘Other’ for Ian Farmer is dividend equivalents paid in cash on the vesting of share awards. For Alan Ferguson, the amount is the total of dividend
equivalents paid on vesting of share awards (£8,799) and payments made on redundancy (£1,260,190) which is discussed further below. In addition to
the amounts in the table, the Executive Directors received long term share incentives as detailed elsewhere in this report. The Directors’ total emoluments
for the year do not include any fair value share option/award charges.
6 FY2011 data for Alan Ferguson relates to the three-month period 1 October to 31 December 2010.
7 FY2010 data for Simon Scott relates to the four days from 27 to 30 September 2010.
8 Although the Group’s reporting currency is US Dollars, these figures are stated in Sterling. Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson are paid in Sterling whilst Simon
Scott is paid in Rands. The conversion uses the average ZAR:GBP rate for FY2011 of R11.1498.
9 No Director received any expense allowances during the year.
Termination payment
As anticipated in this report in 2009 and 2010, Alan Ferguson’s employment ended through redundancy on 31 December 2010,
when the role of the CFO was relocated to Johannesburg. The payments made to him are reported in the table above, but in
summary were one year’s pay in lieu of notice (being the Company’s contractual obligation to meet his salary and contractual
benefits), a one off non-pensionable cash payment of 125% of base salary (based on his personal performance through the period
of transition from London to Johannesburg), payment for accrued but untaken holiday, contractual consideration for restrictive
covenants and Statutory Redundancy Pay. The Committee did not apply mitigation in view of his exceptional performance and the
circumstances of the termination of his employment. Since the redundancy of his role in the UK required that a successor in South
Africa be identified, appointed and settled into the role, notice had not been served on him in advance of the date on which the
UK-based post became redundant. 
Purview Group
In addition to the Executive Directors, the remuneration of fifteen other senior executives, the vast majority of whom are employed
in South Africa, fall within the purview of the Committee. The base salaries (UK employees) or TCTC (SA employees) for those
employed at the end of FY2011 fell within the following bands:
Salary bands                                                                                                                                                              Number of executives FY2011             (FY2010)
£100,000 to £150,000                                                                                                                                             –                 (3)
£150,000 to £200,000                                                                                                                                             7                 (7)
£200,000 to £250,000                                                                                                                                             6                 (4)
£250,000 to £300,000                                                                                                                                             2                 (3)
£300,000 to £400,000                                                                                                                                             –                 (1)
Exchange rate used £1 = R11.1498
Purview Group executives participate in the same short and long term incentive arrangements as the Executive Directors, although
with lower grant levels. Half of their LTIP awards are subject to the same performance conditions but with the vesting of the other
half dependent solely on continued employment, in recognition of local practice and the severe competition for executive talent in
South Africa.
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 93 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION IN FY2011 (continued)
Pensions
Former defined benefit pension scheme arrangements
The Company closed its defined benefit pension scheme in June 2007, and has subsequently wound this up on an orderly basis.
All UK employees who were active members when the scheme was withdrawn have been provided with a salary supplement for
five years from that date in partial compensation for the loss of the link to future salary growth for their accrued benefits. Ian Farmer
benefits from this provision and currently receives a non-pensionable and non-bonusable salary supplement of £33,900 per
annum. The Company also increased the levels of insurances provided for this group, to reflect the loss of the spouse’s and 
ill-health early retirement pensions provided by the scheme.
Current pension arrangements
UK based executives are provided with a pension supplement, which may be taken as a pension contribution (to a defined
contribution plan) or in cash. The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for the benefit of its UK employees.
No Executive Directors are members of this scheme, and Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson received payments equal to 30% of
salary, which they elected to take as cash.
In South Africa the Company and Group participate in an industry wide defined contribution pension plan. The Company withholds
8.8% from Simon Scott’s TCTC, which is remitted as a Company contribution to this plan.
No element of any Director’s remuneration other than base salary is pensionable. Except as disclosed above, the Company has
given no undertakings to arrange or bear the cost of any other pension benefits for any Director. No former Director enjoys pension
benefits in excess of those that would have been provided, in accordance with the historic provisions of the trust deeds and rules,
to all members of the relevant former scheme.
Life assurance
As a former member of the UK defined benefit pension scheme, Ian Farmer is provided with life assurance benefits of eight times
salary, for the reasons noted above, as a contractual benefit. Alan Ferguson’s and Simon Scott’s contracts of employment provide
for life assurance benefits of four times annual salary. All of these benefits are fully insured.
Annual bonus
FY2011 required a continuing focus on the Company’s cost base, while delivering increased production targets and minimising the
risks to the Company (safety, development, transformation objectives). The BSC was therefore designed to ensure the Company
focused on delivering these strategic objectives, which largely reflect the corporate Key Performance Indicators shown on pages
10 and 11.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  % of bonus                 Actual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  opportunity             payment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on offer         for the year
                                                                                                                                                                  Target                 Actual            for target        (% of bonus
Strategic element                                      Metric                                                                         performance       performance       performance        opportunity)
Safety: improvement                      Percentage improvement on          5% improvement            LTIFR              15%             0.0%
in lost time injury                            FY2010 (but 4 fatalities or                                           improved by
frequency rate                               more means zero achievement)                                   19.8%, but 
                                                                                                                                             6 fatalities 
                                                                                                                                           occurred in 
                                                                                                                                                the year                     
Transformation: meeting                HDSAs in management roles                             182               192              10%           15.0%
employment equity targets
Platinum production                       Pt oz in finished metal                                 770,000        731,273              20%             0.0%
Available ore reserves                    Square metres                                         2,904,038     2,931,172                5%             5.5%
Primary haulage development        Linear metres of haulages created                 29,355          30,990                5%             7.5%
Operating unit costs                      Rands per PGM oz                                         7,077            7,534              15%             0.0%
PGM instantaneous recovery rate  %                                                                   78.4%           82.5%              10%           15.0%
Subtotal: Corporate KPIs                                                                                                                                 80%           43.0%
Personal                                        3-4 stretching personal goals                                                                       20%           15.5%
1
Total                                                                                                                                                                100%           58.5%
1
1 Average for Ian Farmer and Simon Scott.
The scorecard incentivises production rather than sales to eliminate the impacts that would otherwise result from unsold stocks at
year ends.
All corporate results were agreed to supporting data by KPMG and the Committee has subjected the scorecard to a detailed
assessment before authorising payment. The Committee considered whether the formulaic result was appropriate, decided 
it was and made no discretionary changes.
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 94 ]
REMUNERATION IN FY2011 (continued)
Bonus payments to the Executive Directors
The bonus payments to be paid to the Executive Directors equate to 58.5% of the target level of bonus and, as explained on 
page 86, 48.8% of their annual salary. As noted on that page, ASAP awards will be made at the time that the bonus is paid with a
face value equal to the gross value of the FY2011 bonus payment. 
Long term Incentives
LTIP Awards
On 3 August 2011, LTIP awards were made to Ian Farmer, Simon Scott and a number of senior executives. The closing mid-
market share price on that date was 1235p but the strike price, being the average for the final twenty working days of June 2011
in line with the Company’s protocols, was 1456p. Ian Farmer’s award (58,223 shares) was equivalent to 150% of base salary and
Simon Scott’s award (22,481 shares) equal to 100% of his notional base salary. Vesting of these awards is subject to the
achievement of the performance conditions detailed on page 89. Details of the awards are included in the table of Directors’ share
interests on page 96.
Maturities
A number of awards reached maturity on the third anniversary of their dates of grant during the year. The details of the
performance targets were not published at the time the awards were granted, and the Company committed to full retrospective
disclosure:
• DABP – On 5 December 2010 the 2007 DABP matched awards matured. The performance condition is explained in detail on
page 99, and was: 
• RTSR element (50% of performance award) – Lonmin finished below threshold and therefore this portion of the award did
not vest 
• EBIT element (50% of performance award) – this required that underlying audited EBIT for FY2010 be between $1,000
million (at threshold, for which 20% would vest), $1,270 million at target (60% vesting) and $1,430 million (stretch, at
which 100% would vest) with straight-line interpolation between these points. Lonmin finished below threshold and
therefore this portion of the award did not vest
• Retention element (for managers other than the Executive Directors) (100% of retention award) – as this required only
continued service, this portion of the outstanding awards vested in full
• LTIP – Small tranches of awards matured on 1 February 2011 and 8 May 2011 (in which no Executive Director participated),
which had a common performance condition: 
• RTSR element (50% of award) – Lonmin finished below threshold and therefore this portion of the award did not vest 
• EBIT element (50% of award) – this required that underlying audited EBIT for FY2009 be between $925 million (at
threshold, for which 20% would vest), $1,175 million at target (60% vesting) and $1,325 million (stretch, at which 100%
would vest) with straight-line interpolation between these points. Brokers’ EBIT forecasts for FY2009 when these
performance targets were set ranged from $614 million to $1,440 million with a consensus of $1,172 million. Lonmin
finished below threshold and therefore this portion of the award did not vest
A further tranche of LTIPs matured on 29 July 2011 with a different condition:
• RTSR element (50% of award) – Lonmin finished below threshold and therefore this portion of the award did not vest 
• EBIT element (50% of award) – this required that underlying audited EBIT for FY2010 be between $1,000 million (at
threshold, beyond which some portion of the reward would vest) and $1,595 million (stretch, at which 100% would vest)
with straight-line interpolation between these points. Brokers’ EBIT forecasts for FY2010 when the performance targets
were set ranged from $722 million to $2,225 million with a consensus of $1,433 million. Lonmin finished below threshold
and therefore this portion of the award did not vest
• S&P – A small tranche of awards matured on 1 February 2011 which had the same EBIT performance condition as the LTIP
award maturing on the same date, and this therefore did not vest. A tranche of awards maturing on 28 March 2011 were
subject to a performance condition comprising a matrix of production and unit costs, but the minimum level of production
required was 1 million Platinum ounces in concentrate, and as a result these awards lapsed. Finally, a tranche of S&P awards
matured on 29 July 2011, using the same EBIT performance conditions as the relevant LTIP award. The retention
components (for managers other than the Executive Directors) of all of these awards (50% of total) vested in full.
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 95 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION IN FY2011 (continued)
Make up of Executive Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration in respect of the year attributable to the two Executive Directors serving throughout FY2011 was:
Ian Farmer Simon Scott
Notes to the charts
1 Benefits in kind are stated at their taxable value or the cost incurred by the Company where not taxable, as per footnote 2 to the table on page 92.
2 The cash bonus amount is the pre-tax amount payable in respect of the year.
3 As noted on page 86, ASAP awards have the same economic effect as bonus deferral but address cost and tax inefficiencies.
4 The value of the LTIP awarded in the year is stated at fair value assuming the BSC multiplier is at the target level and using a valuation consistent with
IFRS for the RTSR multiplier. However, as noted on page 89 if the threshold conditions are not achieved, no payment will be made.
5 Pension is stated at the cash cost to the Company.
6 Rand costs are translated into Sterling at the average rate for the year of R11.1498 = £1.
Performance-related pay therefore comprised 50% of Mr Farmer’s total remuneration of £1,825,918 and 50% of Mr Scott’s total
remuneration of £843,283. For further information on the strategic alignment of the Executive Directors’ pay, please refer to page 88.
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011
8%
31%
16%
16%
18%
11%
Pension £203,400
Benefits in kind £148,639
Long term incentive plan £342,749
Annual Share Award Plan £283,065
Annual bonus £283,065
Base salary £565,000
48%
18%
16%
18%
Long term incentive plan £132,342
Annual Share Award Plan £153,673
Annual bonus £153,673
Total Cost to Company £403,595 [ 96 ]
REMUNERATION IN FY2011 (continued)
Directors’ awards in respect of Lonmin shares
The awards held by Directors over ordinary shares of the Company at the end of the year ending 30 September 2011, and their
transactions during that year, are set out in the table below:
During year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Market                             Market
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    price      Notional           value 
                                                                                                                           Vested                                               Vesting/                             at date        pre-tax            as at 
                               Performance        Date of           As at                                  and                                As at           lapse        Date of    of vesting             gain      30.09.11
1 
Scheme                       condition           Grant      30.09.10      Granted      released        Lapsed      30.09.11             date        vesting                (p)                (£)               (£)
Executive Directors
Ian Farmer
DABP MA                     (a)   05.12.07       2,174              –       1,087       1,087              –   05.12.10  05.12.10       1,825     19,838              – 
DABP MA                     (c)   02.12.08       9,296              –              –              –       9,296   02.12.11              –              –              –      97,701
LTIP                             (b)   29.07.08     11,400              –              –     11,400              –   29.07.11            n/a            n/a            n/a              – 
LTIP                              (c)   07.01.09     15,718              –              –              –     15,718   07.01.12              –              –              –    165,196
LTIP                             (d)   14.09.09     57,152              –              –              –     57,152   14.09.12              –              –              –    600,668
LTIP                              (e)   02.08.10     51,886              –              –              –     51,886   02.08.13              –              –              –    545,322
LTIP                              (e)   03.08.11              –     58,223              –              –     58,223   03.08.14              –              –              –    611,924
                                                        147,626     58,223       1,087     12,487   192,275                                                     19,838 2,020,811 
Alan Ferguson
DABP MA                     (a)   05.12.07       1,867              –          466       1,401              –   05.12.10  05.12.10       1,825       8,505            n/a
DABP MA                     (c)   02.12.08     15,913              –     15,913              –              –   02.12.11   31.12.10        1,966   312,850            n/a
LTIP                             (b)   29.07.08     14,984              –              –     14,984              –   29.07.11            n/a            n/a            n/a            n/a
LTIP                             (d)   14.09.09     33,779              –       3,283     30,496              –   14.09.12  31.12.10       1,966     64,544            n/a
                                                          66,543              –     19,662     46,881              –                                                   385,899              – 
Simon Scott
LTIP                              (e)   29.09.10     20,434              –              –              –     20,434   29.09.13              –              –              –    214,761
LTIP                              (e)   03.08.11                     22,481              –              –     22,481   03.08.14              –              –              –    236,275
                                                          20,434     22,481              –              –     42,915                                                              –   451,036 
This table and the associated footnotes have been subject to Audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
1 The value is calculated using the closing middle market quotation for Lonmin shares at 30 September 2011 (1051p).
2 The closing middle market quotation for the Company’s ordinary shares, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, was 1051p on 
30 September 2011, and the price ranged between 1051p and 1983p during the financial year.
3 When awards vest, shares are transferred to the participant. To maintain a close alignment with shareholders’ interests, cash equal to the dividends that
would have accrued on these shares during the performance period is also paid. During FY2011, in addition to the shares vesting above Mr Farmer
received £20,525 and Mr Ferguson received £8,799 in line with this policy.
4 Key to schemes: DABP MA = Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Matched Awards (see page 99) and LTIP = Long Term Incentive Plan Awards (see page 87).
5 Key to performance conditions:
(a) 50% RTSR (Global mining group)/50% FY2010 EBIT (see page 99)
(b) 50% RTSR (Global mining group)/50% FY2010 EBIT (see page 89)
(c) 50% RTSR (Global mining group)/50% Share Price (see page 99)
(d) 50% RTSR (Global mining group)/50% Share Price (see page 89)
(e) 50% BSC/50% RTSR (PGM peers) (see page 89).
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 97 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
REMUNERATION IN FY2011 (continued)
Value at risk
Based on the shares and share options and awards held at 30 September 2011 (assuming full vesting and that they were held
throughout the year), this table illustrates the value each Executive Director has at risk and how this component of personal wealth
has fluctuated during the year:
Executive Directors                                                                                                               Number of shares held                Low (£)                High (£)            Closing (£)
                                                                                                                                                                                     30 September       29 December      30 September 
Date                                                                                                                                                                                             2011                    2010                    2011
Share price (p)                                                                                                                           1051p           1983p           1051p
Ian Farmer                                                                                                           79,712        837,773     1,580,689        837,773
Simon Scott                                                                                                                 –                   –                   –                   –
Executive Directors                                                                                                Number of shares under awards                Low (£)                High (£)            Closing (£)
                                                                                                                                                                                     30 September      29 December      30 September 
Date                                                                                                                                                                                             2011                    2010                    2011
Share price (p)                                                                                                                           1051p           1983p           1051p
Ian Farmer                                                                                                         192,275     2,020,810     3,812,813     2,020,810
Simon Scott                                                                                                        42,915        451,037        851,004        451,037
Shareholder value performance
The primary role of the Directors is to deliver value to shareholders and it is against this backdrop that their remuneration must be
assessed. The graphs below show the value, at 30 September 2011, of £100 invested in Lonmin’s shares five years previously,
compared with the current value in Sterling terms of the same amount invested at the same date in the FTSE 100 index and the
median of the PGM peer group detailed on page 90, assuming dividends were reinvested in each case. The Company is a
constituent member of the FTSE 100 and the PGM peer group is used to assess the delivery of value to shareholders relative to
directly comparable companies in the LTIP . The Board believes that these comparisons most fairly illustrate the Company’s
performance.
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011
150
100
50
0
-100
-50
(%)
Sept
2006
Sept
2007
Sept
2008
Sept
2009
Sept
2010
Sept
2011
PGM Peer Group
FTSE 100
Lonmin [ 98 ]
REMUNERATION IN FY2011 (continued)
Directors’ shareholdings
As noted on page 87, Executive Directors and other executives are subject to a shareholding obligation. The Board continues to
recommend that Non-executive Directors also hold Lonmin shares, with a target value of 100% of their base fees. In this way,
shareholder value becomes a paramount principle underlying all Board decisions, since real personal wealth is at stake. The
Directors in office during the year held or hold beneficial interests in the Company’s shares as set out in the table below. Using the
closing share price on 30 September 2011 of 1051p, the levels of share ownership as a percentage of pay were:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Market value of 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Target   shareholding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shareholding      30 September
                                                                                                                                                             At 30.09.11         At 30.09.10             as a % of            2011 as a 
                                                                                                                                                         or earlier date         or later date         base salary/            % of base
                                                                                                                                                           of retirement    of appointment           base NED         salary/base 
Director                                                                                                                                                      (Shares)               (Shares)                       fee               NED fee
Ian Farmer                                                                                                           79,712          65,323               300            148%
Michael Hartnall                                                                                                     4,888            4,888               100            103%
Len Konar                                                                                                                     –                   –               100                   –
Jonathan Leslie                                                                                                     4,900            4,900               100            103%
David Munro                                                                                                          7,700            7,700               100            162%
Roger Phillimore                                                                                                  22,750          22,750               100            478%
Cyril Ramaphosa
1
                                                                                                         –                   –               100                   –
Simon Scott                                                                                                                 –                   –               200                   –
Mahomed Seedat                                                                                                30,621          30,621               100            644%
Karen de Segundo                                                                                                2,108            2,108               100              44%
Jim Sutcliffe                                                                                                           4,536            4,536               100              95%
Former Director
Alan Ferguson                                                                                                     49,126          33,748                n/a                   –
1 Mr Ramaphosa is a major shareholder in and chairman of Shanduka Group, which controls Incwala. This latter company has an 18% equity interest in
Lonmin’s principal South African operating subsidiaries, which comprise all of the Group’s operational activities and substantially the whole of the Group’s
assets. As a result, Mr Ramaphosa has a very significant, but indirect, personal interest in Lonmin’s business.
There were no changes in the serving Directors’ interests from 30 September 2011 to the date of this report.
Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment
The three Executive Directors employed during the year had service contracts in near identical terms. These provided that
employment was terminable on 364 days’ prior written notice given by either the Company or the individual (182 days in the case
of notice given by Alan Ferguson or Simon Scott) except for gross misconduct or in certain other circumstances which may result
in dismissal. In the event that employment is terminated by the Company without notice but not for reasons of gross misconduct,
the Directors are entitled to receive a payment equivalent to the value of the annual base salary and contractual benefits which
would have been earned during the unworked notice period. The contracts are dated 6 April 2006 (Ian Farmer), 20 February 2007
(Alan Ferguson) and 7 July 2010 (Simon Scott).
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts, but have letters of appointment from the Company:
Non-executive Directors Date of appointment Date of letter of appointment Letter of appointment expires
Michael Hartnall 8 May 2003 12 January 2007 Letters of appointment generally 
Len Konar 11 March 2010 17 March 2010 provide for a fixed term to the first 
Jonathan Leslie 4 June 2009 4 June 2009 AGM following appointment, and 
David Munro 10 August 2007 19 August 2007 then (subject to re-election by 
Roger Phillimore 11 September 1997 23 January 2007 shareholders) a term running until 
Cyril Ramaphosa 13 July 2010 18 October 2010 the AGM three years from that date,
Mahomed Seedat 1 January 2011 27 January 2011 subject to the Company’s Articles 
Karen de Segundo 29 April 2005 22 April 2005 of Association
Jim Sutcliffe 10 August 2007 11 August 2007
No compensation is payable to Non-executive Directors for loss of office.
All Directors stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report was approved by the Board on 11 November 2011.
Jim Sutcliffe
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 99 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
APPENDIX
Older long term incentive arrangements
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP)
From 2004, Executive Directors were offered the opportunity to participate in the DABP , under which a minimum of one-third of the
after tax bonus was invested in the DABP , with the option to invest any greater amount up to the whole of their net bonus. These
funds were used to make market purchases of Lonmin shares. The executive received a ‘Matched Award’ which, subject to the
attainment of performance conditions, could enable up to 1:1 matching of the shares bought, on an after tax basis.
The performance conditions used historically are detailed below. These measures were chosen because the Committee felt they
best reflected both the key imperatives on management at the relevant time and also provided an equal focus on the delivery of
value to shareholders over the longer term.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          % of 
                                                   Basis of                                                                                                                                                                         component of
Year of award                             performance conditions               Performance conditions                              Performance                                 award released
2007 (vested                     50% RTSR                        TSR relative to a group of              Threshold (median)                        20%
during FY2011)                                                            20 comparator companies             Target (75th percentile)                  70%
                                                                                    (see page 90)                                 Stretch (90th percentile)               100%
                                          50% EBIT                          EBIT: audited profit for FY2010      Threshold                                      20%
                                                                                                                                          Target                                            60%
                                                                                                                                          Stretch                                         100%
2008                                  50% RTSR                        TSR relative to a group of              Threshold (median)                        20%
                                                                                    20 comparator companies             Target (75th percentile)                  70%
                                                                                    (see page 90)                                 Stretch (90th percentile)               100%
                                          50% Share Price                Lonmin Plc share price on             Threshold                                      20%
                                                                                    London Stock Exchange               Stretch                                         100%
In 2007, mandatory forfeitable bonus deferral of bonuses was introduced to improve the retention characteristics of the DABP . In
return, a 2:1 Matched Award was made. Half of the shares subject to the Matched Award vested at the end of the performance
period, subject to the employee remaining with the Group and to the extent that the related Invested Shares had been retained.
Vesting of one quarter of the Matched Award shares was subject to an RTSR performance condition, and the final quarter subject
to an EBIT target. Executives were able to apply the remainder of their bonus to acquire Invested Shares (without risk of forfeiture)
with a 1:1 match, subject to satisfaction of the same RTSR and EBIT performance conditions, equally weighted. The outcomes of
these performance conditions are detailed on page 94.
For bonuses paid in 2008, the Remuneration Committee determined that the DABP would be operated on the same basis that
applied to voluntary deferral in 2007, save that the Committee determined that an absolute share price target would be substituted
for the EBIT target, as explained on page 90.
In 2009 and 2010 the matching aspect of the Plan has not been used. As noted on page 86, the DABP has now been superseded
by the ASAP and the Company does not currently envisage granting any DABP Matched Awards in future.
Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS)
These legacy schemes expired in March 2007 and, although an option scheme is contained within the rules of the Shareholder
Value Incentive Plan, the Committee has not made, and does not intend to make, any grants under that scheme.
Awards made since 1994 have been subject to performance conditions. Details of these conditions for the Company’s various
tranches of executive share options that remain outstanding are as follows:
• Options granted in or after 1998 but before 2002: TSR must exceed the total return of the Mining Sector of the FTSE
Actuaries Share Indices over any consecutive thirty six month period.
• Options granted in or after 2002: TSR must exceed the total return of the Mining Sector of the FTSE Actuaries Share Indices
in one of the periods of three, four, five or six years following the date of grant, in each case relative to a fixed base year.
The performance conditions attaching to the ESOS options have been fulfilled and all these options are exercisable.
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (Sharesave)
The Company historically offered Sharesave to all UK-remunerated employees, which potentially included Executive Directors.
Participants entered into savings contracts and in return were granted an option over the Company’s shares, to be acquired using
the value of their cash deposits at the end of the contractual savings period. The option price could, at the Committee’s discretion,
be at a discount of up to 20% to the prevailing mid-market price at the date of invitation. With the exception of the 2005 options,
the Company historically granted all such options with a 20% discount. The Sharesave Scheme expired in March 2007 and the
final tranche of options matured in February 2011.
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2011 [ 100 ]
We have audited the Consolidated and Company financial statements of Lonmin Plc for the year ended 30 September 2011 set
out on pages 102 to 148. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial
statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK
Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for
the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 74, the Directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and
express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm. 
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 
30 September 2011 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice;
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent
with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 75, in relation to going concern;
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement in the Directors’ Report – Governance relating to the Company’s compliance
with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
Robert M. Seale (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
11 November 2011
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the Members of Lonmin Plc [ 101 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of
the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation
taken as a whole; and
• the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal
risks and uncertainties that they face.
Roger Phillimore Simon Scott
Chairman Chief Financial Officer
11 November 2011
Responsibility Statement of the Directors 
in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts [ 102 ]
                                                                                                                                       Special                                                                       Special                            
                                                                                                               2011                 items                    2011                    2010                   items                    2010
                                                                                                     Underlying
i
              (note 3)                    Total           Underlying
i
               (note 3)                     Total
Continuing operations                                                Note                       $m                     $m                      $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Revenue                                                    2           1,992                  –           1,992           1,585                  –           1,585 
EBITDA
ii
                                                                      433                 (2)             431              350               (13)             337 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment                    (122)                (2)            (124)            (122)              (12)            (134)
Operating profit
iii
                                       4              311                 (4)             307              228               (25)             203 
Finance income                                           6                  5                15                20                10                28                38 
Finance expenses                                        6               (10)              (33)              (43)                (9)                 –                 (9)
Share of profit of equity 
accounted investments                              13                  9                  –                  9                  8                  –                  8 
Profit before taxation                                               315               (22)             293              237                  3              240 
Income tax (expense) / credit
iv
                      7               (56)               84                28               (80)              (38)            (118)
Profit for the year                                                     259                62              321              157               (35)             122 
Attributable to:
– Equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc                            226                47              273              138               (26)             112 
– Non-controlling interests                                             33                15                48                19                 (9)               10 
Earnings per share                                      8                                                 134.8c                                                        56.9c
Diluted earnings per share
v
                         8                                                  134.4c                                                    56.8c
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total                     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Note                       $m                       $m
Profit for the year                                                                                                                                                 321              122 
Other comprehensive income / (expense):
– Change in fair value of available for sale financial assets                                                                 14               (20)                (6)
– Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges                                                                               (9)                 – 
– Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified to the income statement                                                –                  1 
– Changes in settled cash flow hedges released to the income statement                                                              1                 (3)
– Foreign exchange on retranslation of equity accounted investments                                              13                 (8)                 3 
– Deferred tax on items taken directly to the statement of comprehensive income                                                  (4)                 1 
Total comprehensive income for the year                                                                                                          281              118 
Attributable to:
– Equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc                                                                                                                   235              107 
– Non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                   46                11 
                                                                                                                                                                         281              118 
Footnotes:
i Underlying results and earnings per share are based on reported results and earnings per share excluding the effect of special items as defined in note 3.
ii EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment of goodwill, intangibles and property, plant and equipment.
iii Operating profit is defined as revenue less operating expenses before impairment of available for sale financial assets, finance income and expenses and
share of profit of equity accounted investments. 
iv The income tax (expense) / credit substantially relates to overseas taxation and includes net exchange gains of $82 million (2010 – exchange losses of
$37 million) as disclosed in note 7.
v Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive outstanding share options. 
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 30 September [ 103 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Note                      $m                       $m
Non-current assets
Goodwill                                                                                                                                            10              113              113 
Intangible assets                                                                                                                               11              993              978 
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                                          12           2,567           2,199 
Equity accounted investments                                                                                                          13              175              172 
Other financial assets                                                                                                                        14              399              404 
                                                                                                                                                                     4,247           3,866 
Current assets
Inventories                                                                                                                                        15              384              396 
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                              16              154              414 
Tax recoverable                                                                                                                                                      1                  – 
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                               29                76              148 
                                                                                                                                                                         615              958 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                  17             (354)            (381)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings                                                                                               18               (10)              (66)
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                                         19                 (5)                (1)
Tax payable                                                                                                                                                           (2)                (6)
                                                                                                                                                                        (371)             (454)
Net current assets                                                                                                                                           244              504 
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings                                                                                               18             (300)            (457)
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                                         19                 (9)                 – 
Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                        21             (716)            (751)
Provisions                                                                                                                                         22             (125)              (80)
                                                                                                                                                                     (1,150)          (1,288)
Net assets                                                                                                                                                    3,341          3,082 
Capital and reserves
Share capital                                                                                                                                     24              203              202 
Share premium                                                                                                                                 24              997              997 
Other reserves                                                                                                                                                      80                88 
Retained earnings                                                                                                                                           1,650           1,422 
Attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc                                                                                       2,930           2,709 
Attributable to non-controlling interests                                                                                                        411              373 
Total equity                                                                                                                                                   3,341           3,082 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 November 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roger Phillimore Chairman
Simon Scott Chief Financial Officer
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
as at 30 September [ 104 ]
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 30 September
Equity interest
                                                                                 Called                   Share                                                                                                         Non-
                                                                             up share              premium                   Other              Retained                                        controlling                     Total
                                                                                 capital               account               reserves
i
              earnings
ii
                    Total               interests
iii
                 equity
                                                                                      $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
At 1 October 2009                                  193               776                 89            1,298            2,356               382            2,738 
Profit for the year                                        –                  –                  –              112              112                10              122 
Total other comprehensive 
(expense) / income:                                     –                   –                  (1)                 (4)                 (5)                  1                  (4)
– Change in fair value of available 
for sale financial assets                            –                  –                  –                 (6)                (6)                 –                 (6)
– Net change in fair value of cash 
flow hedges reclassified to the 
income statement                                    –                  –                  1                  –                  1                  –                  1 
– Changes in settled cash flow 
hedges released to the income 
statement                                                –                  –                 (3)                 –                 (3)                 –                 (3)
– Foreign exchange on retranslation 
of equity accounted investments              –                  –                  –                  2                  2                  1                  3 
– Deferred tax on items taken 
directly to the statement 
of comprehensive income                        –                  –                  1                  –                  1                  –                  1 
Items recognised directly in equity:             9              221                  –                16              246               (20)             226 
– Share-based payments                            –                  –                  –                  4                  4                  1                  5 
– Transfer from liability for own shares           –                  –                  –                14                14                  1                15 
– Share capital and share premium 
recognised on equity issuance                 9              224                  –                  –              233                  –              233 
– Equity issue costs charged 
to share premium                                     –                 (4)                 –                  –                 (4)                 –                 (4)
– Reversal of fair value movements 
on derivative liability recognised 
on equity issuance                                   –                  –                  –                 (2)                (2)                 –                 (2)
– Shares issued on exercise 
of share options                                       –                  1                  –                  –                  1                  –                  1 
– Dividends                                                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –               (22)              (22)
At 30 September 2010                            202               997                 88            1,422            2,709               373            3,082  [ 105 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 30 September
Equity interest
                                                                                Called                  Share                                                                                                     Non-
                                                                            up share             premium                   Other             Retained                                     controlling                    Total
                                                                                capital              account              reserves
i
             earnings
ii
                   Total              interests
iii
                equity
                                                                                      $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
At 1 October 2010                                  202              997                88           1,422           2,709              373           3,082 
Profit for the year                                         –                   –                   –               273              273                 48              321 
Total other comprehensive 
(expense) / income:                                     –                   –                  (8)               (30)              (38)                 (2)              (40)
– Change in fair value of available 
for sale financial assets                             –                   –                   –                (20)              (20)                  –               (20)
– Effective portion of changes in 
fair value of cash flow hedges                   –                   –                  (9)                  –                 (9)                  –                 (9)
– Changes in settled cash flow 
hedges released to the income 
statement                                                 –                   –                   1                   –                  1                   –                  1 
– Foreign exchange on 
retranslation of equity 
accounted investments                             –                   –                   –                  (6)                (6)                 (2)                (8)
– Deferred tax on items taken 
directly to the statement 
of comprehensive income                         –                   –                   –                 (4)                (4)                  –                 (4)
Items recognised directly 
in equity:                                                     1                   –                   –                (15)              (14)                 (8)              (22)
– Share-based payments                             –                   –                   –                 15                15                   2                17 
– Shares issued on exercise 
of share options
iv
                                      1                   –                   –                   –                  1                   –                  1 
– Dividends                                                  –                   –                   –                (30)              (30)               (10)              (40)
At 30 September 2011                         203              997                80           1,650           2,930              411           3,341 
Footnotes:
i Other reserves at 30 September 2011 represent the capital redemption reserve of $88 million (2010 – $88 million) and an $8 million hedging loss net of
deferred tax (30 September 2010 – $nil hedging reserve net of deferred tax). The movement in the current year represents the movement on the hedging
reserve.
ii Retained earnings include $13 million of accumulated credits in respect of fair value movements on available for sale financial assets (2010 – $33 million
accumulated credits) and an $8 million credit of accumulated exchange on retranslation of equity accounted investments (2010 – $14 million credit).
iii Non-controlling interests represent an 18% shareholding in each of EPL, WPL and Messina Limited and a 26% shareholding in Akanani Mining (Pty) Limited.
iv During the year 364,924 share options were exercised (2010 – 173,936) on which $1 million of cash was received (2010 – $1 million). [ 106 ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2011                    2010 
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Note                      $m                       $m 
Profit for the year                                                                                                                                             321             122 
Taxation                                                                                                                                              7               (28)             118 
Share of profit of equity accounted investments                                                                                13                 (9)                (8)
Finance income                                                                                                                                  6               (20)              (38)
Finance expenses                                                                                                                               6                43                  9 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment                                                                                                        124              134 
Change in inventories                                                                                                                                           12             (125)
Change in trade and other receivables                                                                                                                260             (138)
Change in trade and other payables                                                                                                                    (27)               40 
Change in provisions                                                                                                                                           (13)                 5 
Share-based payments                                                                                                                                        17                  9 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                 2                  5 
Cash flow from operations                                                                                                                             682              133 
Interest received                                                                                                                                                     3                  3 
Interest and bank fees paid                                                                                                                                  (39)              (44)
Tax paid                                                                                                                                                               (16)              (12)
Cash inflow from operating activities                                                                                                            630                80 
Cash flow from investing activities
Investment in joint venture                                                                                                                 13                 (2)                (3)
Additions to other financial assets                                                                                                     14               (30)            (285)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                        (408)            (259)
Purchase of intangible assets                                                                                                                                (2)                (2)
Cash used in investing activities                                                                                                                   (442)            (549)
Cash flow from financing activities
Equity dividends paid to Lonmin shareholders                                                                                                     (30)                 – 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests                                                                                                           (10)              (22)
Proceeds from current borrowings                                                                                                    29                10               60 
Repayment of current borrowings                                                                                                     29               (71)              (47)
Proceeds from non-current borrowings                                                                                             29              300              113 
Issue costs on non-current borrowings                                                                                                                  (8)                 – 
Repayment of non-current borrowings                                                                                              29             (454)                 – 
Proceeds from equity issuance                                                                                                                               –              233 
Costs of issuing shares                                                                                                                                           –                 (4)
Issue of other ordinary share capital                                                                                                                       1                  1 
Cash (outflow) / inflow from financing activities                                                                                          (262)             334 
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents                                                                                        29               (74)            (135)
Opening cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                  29              148              282 
Effect of exchange rate changes                                                                                                       29                  2                  1 
Closing cash and cash equivalents                                                                                               29                76              148 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 30 September [ 107 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
1     Statement on accounting policies
Reporting entity
Lonmin Plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the UK. The address of the Company’s registered office is 
4 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7YL. The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended
30 September 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) and the Group’s interest
in equity accounted investments.
Basis of preparation
Statement of compliance
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as
adopted by the EU (adopted IFRSs) and approved by the Directors on this basis.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are
presented on pages 142 to 148. The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a
separate entity and not about its Group. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 November 2011. 
Basis of measurement
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following:
• Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
• Available for sale assets are measured at fair value.
• Liabilities for cash settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value.
• Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
No changes in the accounting policies have had any effect on the consolidated financial statements.
The Group’s business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set
out in the CEO’s review on pages 6 to 9. The Group’s financial position, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities
are described in the Financial Review on pages 31 to 35. In addition notes 18 to 20 to the financial statements include the
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable debt facilities in place and the Directors believe that it is well placed to manage its business risks
successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook. The Directors have reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going
concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial statements.
Functional and presentation currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company and its
principal operations.
Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in
the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The primary areas in which estimates and judgements are applied are as follows:
Impairment of assets
The carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for which the key assumptions, and
management approach for determining these, are described in the policy on Impairment.
Reserves and resources
Reserves and resources are determined by Competent Persons and audited bi-annually according to the South African code
for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (SAMREC). The determination of resources
and reserves requires a wide variety of assessments regarding the geology of the ore body, the mining plans and economic
viability which are all subject to inherent uncertainties. Changes in proven and probable reserves have a direct impact on
depreciation rates applied to mining assets which are calculated on a units of production basis.
Inventory
Inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain reflecting the stage of refinement. Prior to production as final
metal the inventory is always contained within a carrier material. As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken to
determine the metal content and how this is split by metal. Measurement and sampling accuracy can vary quite significantly
depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material. Management judgement, therefore, is also applied.
Notes to the Accounts [ 108 ]
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Rehabilitation costs
The nature of the mining and processing operations of the Group gives rise to environmental obligations which are reflected in
the rehabilitation provision. The level of provision needs to reflect the present value of the future remediation costs. Estimating
the future remediation costs involves significant judgments including for example the local geography and geology, whether
contamination has occurred and, if so, the nature of contaminants involved and the remediation approach to be taken and the
likely costs which would be incurred. Such judgments are made using advice from expert advisors. In addition, the outflows in
respect of rehabilitation are generally far into the future. Judgment is therefore also involved in estimating the timing of the
cash flow and in the discounting factors to determine the present value.
Derivative financial instruments
Judgement and estimation involved in the valuation of derivative financial instruments is considered in detail in note 20g.
Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in
these Group financial statements, and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the
financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting
rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition at
which date control commences or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate, at which date control ceases. Where
necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the
accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Associates
An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant
influence but not control over the financial and operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group
holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity. Associates are accounted for using the equity method
and are initially measured at cost. The Group’s investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any impairment
losses. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the income and expenses and equity movements
of any associates, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant
influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in
an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest (including any long term investments) is reduced to nil and
the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments
on behalf of the investee.
Joint ventures (JVs)
The Group undertakes a number of business activities through JVs. JVs are established through contractual arrangements
which result in the strategic, financial and operating policies of the venture being jointly controlled. Such joint ventures are
treated as jointly controlled entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and
joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are
eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group entities
using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary
assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on
the retranslation of available for sale financial assets which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Notes to the Accounts [ 109 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Revenue
Revenue is derived from the sale of metal inventories and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable,
after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes. A sale is recognised when: the significant
risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer (this is generally when title and insurance risk have passed to the
customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location); recovery of the consideration is probable;
the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably; there is no continuing management involvement
with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. In certain circumstances, for example sometimes in the
sale of part-processed material, metal prices at the point of sale may be provisional. The impact of changes in metal prices to
the point of settlement are reflected through revenue and receivables.
All third-party metal sales are recognised as revenue. The Group does not credit capitalised development costs with income
arising from production in development phases but rather recognises such metal as inventory (see Inventories policy).
Finance income and expenses
Finance income comprises interest on funds invested (including available for sale financial assets), dividend income, gains on
the disposal of available for sale financial assets net of costs of disposal, expected returns on pension scheme assets, and
gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principle outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Group’s rights to receive payment have been established.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees (which are capitalised and amortised over the life of
the facility), unwinding of discount on provisions, interest costs of pension scheme liabilities, and losses on hedging
instruments that are recognised in the income statement. 
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method except for borrowing costs
which are directly attributable to the acquisition, or construction of an asset. Such costs are capitalised to property, plant and
equipment or intangible assets during the period of construction or development provided that future economic benefit is
considered probable. Capitalised interest is shown as interest paid in the consolidated cash flow statement.
The Company’s accounting policies in respect of the hybrid financial instrument issued to it by Shanduka, its BEE partner, 
are detailed in the financial instruments section. 
Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received. 
Research and development
Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure which meets the recognition criteria for an intangible asset under IAS 38 – Intangible Assets, is
capitalised and then amortised over the useful economic life of the developed asset, otherwise it is charged to the income
statement as incurred. Borrowing costs related to the development of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Capitalised development expenditure is recognised at cost, and subsequently carried at cost less any accumulated
impairment losses, where it can be demonstrated that the expenditure will result in completion of an asset which, when
available for use or sale, will result in future economic benefit arising for the Group. 
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral
reserves and includes costs relating to the following: acquisition of exploration rights; conducting geological studies; exploratory
drilling and sampling and evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource.
Expenditure incurred on activities that precede exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, being all expenditure
incurred prior to securing the legal rights to explore an area, is expensed immediately.
Expenditure towards in-house exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves for each area of interest is expensed
until it is considered probable that future economic benefit will arise through further exploration and subsequent development
of the area of interest or, alternatively, by its sale. 
Pre-feasibility studies involve the review of one or more potential development options with the aim of moving forward to the
more detailed feasibility study stage. Expenditure related to such studies is expensed in full as there is insufficient certainty
that future economic benefit will be generated at this stage of a project. 
Expenditure relating to feasibility studies which support the technical feasibility and commercial viability of an area is
capitalised under exploration and evaluation assets. 
Where a feasibility study reaches a favourable conclusion, accumulated exploration and evaluation costs are transferred to
mineral rights within intangibles or capital work in progress within property, plant and equipment as appropriate on
commencement of the development phase of the related project. Where the feasibility study reaches an adverse conclusion,
any previously capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off immediately. 
Notes to the Accounts [ 110 ]
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Exploration and evaluation expenditure (continued)
Expenditure on purchased exploration and evaluation assets is capitalised at fair value at the time of purchase. Subsequent
expenditure may be capitalised at cost. Carrying values are subject to impairment reviews as per the Group’s policy.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is classified as property, plant and equipment or intangible depending on the nature of
the expenditure.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is a class of assets which are not available for use. Therefore amortisation
is not provided on such assets.
Mineral mining rights, which are obtained following the completion of a feasibility study, are not included within exploration and
evaluation expenditure. They are capitalised at cost under IAS 38 – Intangible Assets and are amortised on a units of
production basis over the life of the mine.
Share-based payment
From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is
recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become
unconditionally entitled to payment. The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date. Any changes in
the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a
Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award. Market related performance conditions are reflected in the
fair value of the share. Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the
number of awards expected to vest; the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market
conditions are met.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes in accordance with local regulations. A defined contribution
plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity and has no
legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are
recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due. 
Taxation
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax to be paid or recovered on the taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted or
substantively enacted at the reporting date during the periods being reported upon, and any adjustments to tax payable in
respect of previous years. Current tax also includes secondary tax charges on dividends remitted which are recognised upon
the declaration of relevant dividends.
Deferred tax as directed by IAS 12 – Income Taxes is recognised in respect of certain temporary differences identified at the
balance sheet date. Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Group’s assets and liabilities
and their tax base.
A deferred tax liability is recognised in a business combination in respect of any identified intangible asset representing the
difference between the fair value of the acquired asset and its tax base. Recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of
such a difference gives rise to a corresponding increase in goodwill recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax Group where
the entities have the right to settle current tax liabilities net. Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the
basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same
jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising in relation to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities
and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that
the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax relating to the secondary tax charges on the remittance of overseas earnings is provided to the extent that such
remittance of earnings can reasonably be foreseen. 
Notes to the Accounts [ 111 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Business combinations and goodwill
At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, associate or joint venture fair values are attributed to the acquired
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Any provisional fair values are finalised within twelve months of the
acquisition date. Goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the purchase consideration and the acquired
interest in the fair values of those net assets. Goodwill is initially recognised at fair value. Any negative goodwill is credited to
the income statement in the year of acquisition. If an undertaking is subsequently sold, the amount of goodwill carried on the
balance sheet at the date of disposal is charged to the income statement in the period of disposal as part of the gain or loss
on disposal.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures which are equity accounted for is included within the Group’s
investments. Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of the associate.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired by the Group have finite useful lives and are measured at cost less
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Where amortisation is charged on these assets, the expense
is taken to the income statement through operating costs.
Amortisation of mineral rights is provided on a units of production basis over the remaining life of mine to residual value (20 to
40 years).
All other intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives subject to a maximum of twenty years and are tested
for impairment at each reporting date when there is an indication of a possible impairment.
Property, plant and equipment
Recognition
Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at cost and subsequently less accumulated depreciation and
any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets
includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working
condition for its intended use, and any other costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they
are located. Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency
purchases of property, plant and equipment. Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets
are capitalised to the cost of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds on
disposal with the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and are recognised net in the income statement. 
Componentisation
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as
separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it 
is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured
reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised upon replacement. The costs of the day-to-day servicing 
of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Capital work in progress
Development costs are capitalised and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when
available for use. 
Capitalised development costs include expenditure incurred to develop new operations and to expand existing capacity.
Costs include interest capitalised during the period up to the level that the qualifying assets permit. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line or units of production basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives or the
remaining life of mine, if shorter, to residual value. The life of mine is based on proven and probable reserves. The expected
useful lives of the major categories of property, plant and equipment are as follows:
                                                                                     Method                                                                                           Rate                                                        
Shafts and underground                           Units of production                2.5% – 5.0% per annum                      20 – 40 years 
Metallurgical                                             Straight line                            2.5% – 7.1% per annum                      14 – 40 years 
Infrastructure                                            Straight line                            2.5% – 2.9% per annum                      35 – 40 years 
Other plant and equipment                       Straight line                          2.5% – 50.0% per annum                       2 – 40 years 
No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
Notes to the Accounts [ 112 ]
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Impairment
The Group’s principal assets are property, plant and equipment, intangibles and goodwill associated with exploration and
evaluation, mining and processing activities. For the purpose of assessing recoverable amount, these assets are grouped into
cash generating units (CGUs).
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. At each balance sheet date, the Group
assesses whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount
of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment (if any).
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually regardless of whether an indication of
impairment exists.
Items of property, plant and equipment that are not in use are reviewed annually for impairment on a fair value less costs to
sell basis.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the
asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
Value in use
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, based on the most up to date business forecasts, are discounted
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and
the risks specific to the assets for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
The key assumptions contained within the business forecasts and management’s approach to determine appropriate values
are set out below:
Key Assumption Management Approach
PGM prices Projections are determined through a combination of the views of the Directors, market
estimates and forecasts and other sector information.
Production volume Projections are based on the capacity and expected operational capabilities of the
mines, the grade of the ore, and the efficiencies of processing and refining operations.
Production costs Projections are based on current cost adjusted for expected cost changes as well as
giving consideration to specific issues such as the difficulty in mining particular sections
of the reef and the mining method employed.
Capital expenditure requirements Projections are based on the operational plan, which sets out the long term plan of the
business and is approved by the Board.
Foreign currency exchange rates Spot rates as at the end of the reporting period are applied.
Reserves and resources of the CGU Projections are determined through surveys performed by Competent Persons and the
views of the Directors of the Company.
Management uses past experience and assessment of future conditions, together with external sources of information in
order to assign values to the key assumptions.
Management has projected cash flows over the life of the relevant mining operation which is significantly greater than five
years. Projecting cash flows over a period longer than five years is in line with industry practice and is supported by the
Group’s history of the resources expected to be found being proven to exist. Management does not apply a growth rate
because a detailed life of mine plan is used to forecast future production volumes.
For each CGU a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate based on the weighted average cost of capital for Group is used for
impairment testing. The key factors affecting the risk premium applied are the relevant stage of the development of the asset
in the CGU (extensions to existing operations having significantly lower risk than evaluation projects for example), the level of
knowledge and consistency of the ore body and sovereign risk. The rate applied to goodwill in the Marikana CGU was 8%
(2010 – 8%).
In preparing the financial statements, management has considered whether a reasonably possible change in the key
assumptions on which management has based its determination of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs would cause the
units’ carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts. For the Marikana CGU, because of the forecast for long term
PGM prices and the very significant reserves and resources in the ground, management do not believe that a reasonably
possible change in any of the key assumptions would lead to impairment.
Fair value less costs to sell
Fair value less costs to sell has been determined by reference to the best information available to reflect the amount that the
Group could receive for the CGU in an arm’s length transaction.
When comparable market transactions or public valuations of similar assets exist these are used as a source of evidence.
However, the Group believes that mining CGUs tend to be unique and have their value determined largely by the nature of the
underlying ore body. The fair value therefore is typically determined by calculating the value of the CGU using an appropriate
valuation methodology such as calculating the post-tax net present value using a discounted cash flow forecast (as described
in value in use). 
Notes to the Accounts [ 113 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Akanani exploration and evaluation asset 
The exploration and evaluation assets at Akanani CGU include the exploration and evaluation expenditure, a deferred tax
liability and goodwill. 
For the Akanani CGU management’s assessment of mineral resources and reserves is higher than that at acquisition and
there has been limited change in anticipated long term metal prices since this time. For the Akanani CGU management do not
believe there are relevant market transactions which can be used to consider the asset on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
Management do not believe there are any current indicators of impairment. Given the Akanani CGU is at the exploration and
evaluation stage it is reasonably possible that the completion of that stage will result in changes to indicated and inferred
reserves of PGM ounces and the quantity of resources is also sensitive to the long term metal prices. Adverse changes in
reserves and resources or long term metal prices might cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying amount of the
CGU. Any adverse impact on the Akanani exploration and evaluation asset could have a direct impact on the carrying value of
the tax goodwill which has to be assessed under IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets. As the PGM ounces are only indicated and
inferred, and plans for the extraction of the mineral resource are not that far advanced, it is considered impractical to provide
quantified sensitivities and an estimate of what headroom, if any, exists.
Goodwill
The recoverable amount of goodwill, as allocated to relevant CGUs, has been tested for impairment annually, or when such
events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. 
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Impairment losses within a CGU are allocated first to goodwill and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in
the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Exploration and evaluation assets
Under IFRS 6 exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the
carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amount. When this occurs, any impairment loss is immediately
charged to the income statement. 
Reversal of impairment
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a previously recognised impairment loss
has reversed. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable
amount. An impairment loss is only reversed to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, had the impairment not been made. A reversal
of impairment is recognised as income immediately.
Leases
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present
value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset as determined at the inception of the lease. The
obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans and
other borrowings, with the amount payable within twelve months included in bank overdrafts and loans within current
liabilities. The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period. Rentals under operating leases
are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Assets held for sale
When an asset’s carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, to take place within twelve months of
the balance sheet date, rather than through continuing use it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying
value and fair value less costs to sell. No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Immediately prior to sale the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. 
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (which includes the applicable proportion of production overheads) and net
realisable value. 
PGMs inventory is valued by allocating costs, based on the joint cost of production, apportioned according to the relative
sales value of each of the PGMs produced.
By-product metals are valued at the incremental cost of production from the point of split-off from the PGM processing
stream.
In the process of initially developing the ore reserve it is common that metal is produced, although not at normal operating
levels. Development is split into different phases according to the mining method used with differing levels of production
expected in each phase. The Group recognises the metal produced in each development phase in inventory with an
appropriate proportion of cost as operating costs. This allocation is calculated by reference to the produced volumes in
relation to the total volumes expected from the development.
Notes to the Accounts [ 114 ]
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily
convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original
maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as
defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as the bank overdraft is repayable on demand and forms an integral part of
the Group’s cash management.
Rehabilitation costs
Rehabilitation costs are provided in full based on estimates of the future costs to be incurred, calculated on a discounted
basis. As the provision is recognised, it is either capitalised as part of the cost of the related mine or written off to the income
statement if utilised within one year. Where costs are capitalised the impact of such costs on the income statement is spread
over the life of mine through the accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation over a units of production
basis of the increased costs of the mining assets.
Provisions
Provision is made when a present or legal obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the
amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. 
Financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments (other than derivatives) comprise bank loans, available for sale financial assets,
trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and short term deposits. 
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the
income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial
instruments are measured as described below.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. These also comprise bank overdrafts that are
repayable on demand, for the purpose of the cash flow statement only.
Investments are classified into loans and receivables, held-to-maturity and available for sale. The classification depends on the
purpose for which the investments were acquired, the nature of the investments and whether the investment is quoted or not.
The classification of investments is determined at initial recognition. 
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables and investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortised cost and gains or losses are
recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation
process.
The Company is the holder of a financial instrument issued by its BEE partner, Shanduka. The loan component of the hybrid
instrument was recognised initially at fair value and thereafter will be held at amortised cost. The loan is denominated in Sterling.
The financial instrument was translated to preference shares on 31 March 2011. The related dividends accumulate on a month 
to month basis based on the same rates as the interest rates of the original financial instrument.
Available for sale financial assets
The Group’s investments in equity securities and certain debt securities are classified as available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except
when market value has fallen below original cost when the losses are taken to the income statement together with any foreign
exchange gains or losses arising whilst the asset is impaired. When an investment is written off or sold, any cumulative gains
or losses in equity are recycled into the income statement. Fair value is determined by using the market price at the balance
sheet date where this is available. Where market price is not available the Directors’ best estimates of market value are used.
Bank loans
Bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, net of transaction costs incurred, and are adjusted to amortise transaction costs
over the term of the loan.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are principally used by the Group to manage exposure to market risks from treasury
operations and commodity price risks on by-products. The principal derivative instruments used are foreign currency swaps,
interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward price agreements on by-products. The Group does not
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value. Attributable costs are recognised in
profit or loss when incurred and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value. The method of recognising the
resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the
item being hedged. Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges. 
Notes to the Accounts [ 115 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Derivative financial instruments (continued)
On initial designation of the derivative as the hedging instrument, the Group formally documents the relationship between the
hedging instrument and hedged item, including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge
transaction and the hedged risk, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging
relationship. The Group makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well as on an ongoing basis,
of whether the hedging instruments are expected to be “highly effective” in offsetting the changes in fair value or cash flows of
the respective hedged items attributable to the hedged risk, and whether the actual results of each hedge are within a range
of 80 – 125%. For a cash flow hedge of a forecast transaction, the transaction should be highly probable to occur and should
present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect reported profit or loss.
When a derivative is designated as the hedging instrument in a hedge of the variability in cash flows attributable to a particular
risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit or loss, the
effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in
the hedging reserve in equity. Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
The fair value gains and losses accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the same period that the hedged item
affects profit or loss. If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated
or exercised, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is revoked prospectively. 
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in
profit or loss.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, i.e., the fair value of the
consideration given or received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable
current market transactions in the same instrument (i.e. without modification or repackaging) or based on a valuation
technique whose variables include only data from observable markets. When transaction price provides the best evidence of
fair value at initial recognition, the financial instrument is initially measured at the transaction price and any difference between
this price and the value initially obtained from a valuation model is subsequently recognised in profit or loss on a straight line
basis over the life of the instrument but not later than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable market data or the
transaction is closed out.
The financial instrument issued by Shanduka to the Company contains a derivative component which has a fair value
determined by a valuation model which requires unobservable management assumptions to be made. As such the derivative
falls within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and, at recognition, no “day one gains” can be made. Hence, the unobservable
assumptions have been adjusted downwards to eliminate the day one gain. These adjustments will only be amended post
recognition to the extent that a change occurs in factors which market participants would consider in setting a price.
Segmental reporting
The core principle of IFRS 8 – Operating Segments is that an entity shall disclose information to enable users to evaluate the
nature and financial effects of the business activities in which it engages and the economic environments in which it operates.
On this basis Lonmin has three reportable operating segments being:
• PGM Operations – which comprise operational mines and processing facilities which are located in South Africa.
• Evaluation – which relates to the Akanani asset which is located in South Africa and is in the evaluation stage.
• Exploration – this essentially relates to the costs of exploration projects which have the objective of identifying PGM
deposits which can be commercially realised and which can occur anywhere in the world.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated 
on a reasonable basis. 
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and
intangible assets other than goodwill, and any capitalised interest.
New standards and amendments in the year
There were no new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the period which
materially impacted the Group’s financial statements.
The following standard, issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU, has not yet been adopted by the Group:
• IAS 24 (revised 2009) – Related Party Disclosures (effective 1 January 2011) amends the definition of a related party and
modifies certain related party disclosure requirements for government related entities.
The Group does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the consolidated results or
financial position of the Group.
The Group does not expect the adoption of other new, or revisions to existing, standards or interpretations issued by the
IASB, not listed above, to have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group. 
Notes to the Accounts [ 116 ]
2     Segmental analysis
The Group distinguishes between three reportable operating segments being the Platinum Group Metals (PGM) Operations
segment, the Evaluation segment and the Exploration segment. 
The PGM Operations segment comprises the activities involved in the mining and processing of PGMs, together with associated
base metals, which are carried out entirely in South Africa. These operations are integrated and designed to support the process
for extracting and refining PGMs from underground. PGMs move through each stage of the process and undergo successive
levels of refinement which result in fully refined metals. The Chief Executive Officer, who performs the role of Chief Operating
Decision Maker (CODM), views the PGM Operations segment as a single whole for the purposes of financial performance
monitoring and assessment and does not make resource allocations based on margin, costs or cash flows incurred at each
separate stage of the process. In addition, the CODM makes his decisions for running the business on a day to day basis using
the physical operating statistics generated by the business as these summarise the operating performance of the entire segment. 
The Evaluation segment covers the evaluation through pre-feasibility of the economic viability of newly discovered PGM deposits.
Currently all of the evaluation projects are based in South Africa. 
The Exploration segment covers the activities involved in the discovery or identification of new PGM deposits. This activity
occurs on a worldwide basis. 
No operating segments have been aggregated. Operating segments have consistently adopted the consolidated basis of
accounting and there are no differences in measurement applied. Other covers mainly the results and investment activities of
the corporate Head Office. The only intersegment transactions involve the provision of funding between segments and any
associated interest.
                                                          Year ended 30 September 2011
                                                                                                    PGM
                                                                                           Operations          Evaluation         Exploration                                  Intersegment
                                                                                               Segment            Segment            Segment                  Other      Adjustments                   Total 
                                                                                                        $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Revenue (external sales by product):
Platinum                                                         1,275                  –                  –                  –                  –           1,275 
Palladium                                                          280                  –                  –                  –                  –              280 
Gold                                                                    29                  –                  –                  –                  –                29 
Rhodium                                                           220                  –                  –                  –                  –              220 
Ruthenium                                                          32                  –                  –                  –                  –                32 
Iridium                                                                 32                  –                  –                  –                  –                32 
PGMs                                                            1,868                  –                  –                  –                  –           1,868 
Nickel                                                                  88                  –                  –                  –                  –                88 
Copper                                                               21                  –                  –                  –                  –                21 
Chrome                                                               15                  –                  –                  –                  –                15 
                                                                         1,992                  –                  –                  –                  –           1,992 
Underlying
i
: 
EBITDA / (LBITDA)
ii
                                               425                  6                 (1)                 3                  –              433 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment            (122)                 –                  –                  –                  –             (122)
Operating profit / (loss)
ii
                                         303                  6                 (1)                 3                  –              311 
Finance income                                                        8                  –                  –                  7               (10)                 5 
Finance expenses                                                  (20)                 –                  –                  –                10               (10)
Share of profit of equity accounted 
investments                                                              9                  –                  –                  –                  –                  9 
Profit / (loss) before taxation                                  300                  6                 (1)               10                  –              315 
Income tax (expense) / credit                                 (60)                 4                  –                  –                  –               (56)
Underlying profit / (loss) after taxation                   240                10                 (1)               10                  –              259 
Special items (note 3)                                                                                                                                                       62 
Profit after taxation                                                                                                                                                       321 
Total assets
iii
                                                      3,541              866                  1           1,206             (752)          4,862 
Total liabilities
iv
                                                   (1,587)            (306)              (42)            (338)             752          (1,521)
Net assets                                                         1,954              560               (41)             868                  –           3,341 
Share of net assets of equity 
accounted investments                                           48                  –                  –              127                  –              175 
Additions to property, plant, equipment 
and intangibles                                                     486                23                  –                  –                  –              509 
Material non cash items –
share-based payments                                           17                  –                  –                  –                  –                17 
Notes to the Accounts [ 117 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
2     Segmental analysis (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2010
                                                                                                     PGM
                                                                                             Operations           Evaluation           Exploration                                    Intersegment
                                                                                                Segment             Segment             Segment                  Other        Adjustments                    Total 
                                                                                                        $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Revenue (external sales by product):
Platinum                                                         1,078                  –                  –                  –                  –           1,078 
Palladium                                                          141                  –                  –                  –                  –              141 
Gold                                                                    19                  –                  –                  –                  –                19 
Rhodium                                                           229                  –                  –                  –                  –              229 
Ruthenium                                                          27                  –                  –                  –                  –                27 
Iridium                                                                 18                  –                  –                  –                  –                18 
PGMs                                                            1,512                  –                  –                  –                  –           1,512 
Nickel                                                                  56                  –                  –                  –                  –                56 
Copper                                                               14                  –                  –                  –                  –                14 
Chrome                                                                 3                                                                                                         3 
                                                                         1,585                  –                  –                  –                  –           1,585 
Underlying
i
:
EBITDA / (LBITDA)
ii
                                               359                 (3)                (6)                 –                  –              350 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment          (122)                 –                  –                  –                  –             (122)
Operating profit / (loss)
ii
                                         237                 (3)                (6)                 –                  –              228 
Finance income                                                        3                  –                  –                36               (29)               10 
Finance expenses                                                  (23)                 –                  –               (15)               29                 (9)
Share of profit of equity accounted investments        5                  –                  –                  3                  –                  8 
Profit / (loss) before taxation                                  222                 (3)                (6)               24                  –              237 
Income tax (expense) / credit                                 (82)                (4)                 –                  6                  –               (80)
Underlying profit / (loss) after taxation                   140                 (7)                (6)               30                  –              157 
Special items (note 3)                                                                                                                                                         (35)
Profit after taxation                                                                                                                                                             122 
Total assets
iii
                                                      3,537              843                  4              963             (523)          4,824 
Total liabilities
iv
                                                   (1,888)            (294)              (46)              (37)             523          (1,742)
Net assets                                                         1,649              549               (42)             926                  –           3,082 
Share of net assets of equity 
accounted investments                                           47                  –                  –              125                  –              172 
Additions to property, plant, equipment 
and intangibles                                                     293                17                  –                  –                  –              310 
Material non cash items – 
share-based payments                                             9                  –                  –                  –                  –                  9 
Revenue by destination is analysed by geographical area below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Year ended          Year ended
                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September      30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $m                       $m
The Americas                                                                                                                                              414              453 
Asia                                                                                                                                                              557              373 
Europe                                                                                                                                                         616             529 
South Africa                                                                                                                                                 405              230 
                                                                                                                                                              1,992          1,585 
The Group’s revenues are all derived from the PGM Operations segment. This segment has two major customers who
contributed 59% and 27% of revenue in the year (2010 – 69% and 23%).
Metal sales prices are based on market prices which are denominated in US Dollars. The majority of sales are also invoiced in
US Dollars with the exception of certain sales in South Africa which are invoiced in South African Rand based on exchange
rates determined in accordance with the contractual arrangements.
Notes to the Accounts [ 118 ]
2     Segmental analysis (continued)
Non-current assets, excluding financial instruments, by geographical area are shown below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Year ended          Year ended
                                                                                                                                                                                                        30 September      30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $m                       $m
South Africa                                                                                                                                              3,847          3,461 
Europe                                                                                                                                                             1                 1 
                                                                                                                                                              3,848           3,462 
Footnotes:
i Underlying results are based on reported results excluding the effect of special items as defined in note 3.
ii EBITDA / (LBITDA) and operating profit / (loss) are the key profit measures used by management.
iii The assets under “Other” include the HDSA receivable of $351 million (2010 – $318 million), the HDSA derivative of $nil million (2010 – $24 million)
and intercompany receivables of $742 million (2010 – $479 million).
iv The liabilities under “Other” include non-current borrowings of $300 million (2010 – $15 million).
3     Special items
“Special items” are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of
the income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and for consistency
with prior years.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $m                      $m
Operating loss:                                                                                                                                                (4)              (25)
– Costs relating to HDSA financing
i
                                                                                                                  –                 (5)
– Impairment of property, plant and equipment
ii
                                                                                             (2)              (12)
– Restructuring and reorganisation costs
iii
                                                                                                       (2)                (9)
– Pension refund                                                                                                                                              –                  1 
Net finance (expenses) / income:                                                                                                                  (18)               28 
– Interest accrued from HDSA receivable
i
                                                                                                      15                  3 
– Exchange (loss) / gain on HDSA receivable
i
                                                                                                 (3)               11 
– Movement in fair value of HDSA derivative (note 20g)                                                                                (24)               12 
– Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges
iv
                                                                                              (6)                 – 
– Movement in fair value of derivative liability in respect of equity issuance                                                       –                  2 
(Loss) / profit on special items before taxation                                                                                             (22)                3 
Taxation related to special items (note 7)                                                                                                      84               (38)
Special gain / (loss) before non-controlling interests                                                                                       62               (35)
Non-controlling interests                                                                                                                               (15)                 9 
Special gain / (loss) for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc                                         47               (26)
Footnotes:
i During the year ended 30 September 2010 the Group provided financing to assist Shanduka to acquire a majority shareholding in Incwala,
Lonmin’s BEE partner. This financing has given rise to foreign exchange movements and the accrual of interest in 2011 and 2010. The Group also
incurred fees from advisors in relation to the transaction in 2010. 
ii For the years ended 30 September 2011 and 2010 $2 million has been written off in respect of houses for sale. During the year ended 
30 September 2010 the Group took a strategic decision to enhance its smelting capacity by initiating the development of an additional pyromet
furnace. The most cost effective approach was to decommission the existing Merensky furnace and leverage the existing infrastructure. As such
the Merensky furnace assets could not be reutilised and these were written off. 
iii During the year ended 30 September 2011 the Group incurred $2 million (2010 – $9 million) in transition costs in relocating corporate functions
from the London office to South Africa. 
iv The interest rate swap referred to in note 19 was entered into prior to draw down of the hedged item, resulting in a fair value loss during initial
period of mismatch.
Notes to the Accounts [ 119 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
4     Group operating profit
Group operating profit is stated after charging / (crediting):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $m                       $m
Operating lease charges – land and buildings                                                                                                  –                  1 
Depreciation charge – property, plant and equipment                                                                                  114              108 
Amortisation charge – intangible assets                                                                                                           8                14 
Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments
i
                                                      9                12 
Share-based payments                                                                                                                                 17                  9 
Foreign exchange (gains) / losses                                                                                                                 (28)               29 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment                                                                                           2                  5 
Special items (note 3)                                                                                                                                     4                25 
Footnote:
i Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments includes $6 million (2010 – $7 million) in respect of Directors.
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates included in operating costs:
                                                                                                                             2011                                                                             2010
                                                                                                                              $m                                                                               $m
                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                        UK            Overseas                    Total                      UK             Overseas                     Total
Audit fees:
– Audit of annual accounts of the Company               0.2                0.2                0.4                0.2                   –                0.2
– Audit of annual accounts of the 
Company’s subsidiaries and associates                  –                0.7                0.7                0.3                0.9                1.2
– Review of half year financial statements               0.1                0.3                0.4                0.1                0.1                0.2
Audit related fees:
– Sustainability assurance services                            –                0.3                0.3                   –                0.1                0.1
– Consultation and advice on 
accounting standards and policies                          –                0.1                0.1                0.2                   –                0.2
Non-audit fees:
– Tax services                                                         0.1                   –                0.1                   –                0.1                0.1
– Framework for Carbon management                       –                0.1                0.1                   –                   –                   –
                                                                              0.4                1.7                2.1               0.8                1.2                2.0
5     Employees
The average number of employees and Directors during the year was as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       No.                      No.
South Africa                                                                                                                                            25,084         22,751 
Europe                                                                                                                                                           10                28 
Rest of world                                                                                                                                                    3                  2 
                                                                                                                                                            25,097         22,781 
The aggregate payroll costs of employees, key management and Directors were as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
Employee costs                                                                                                                                                                                                $m                      $m
Wages and salaries                                                                                                                                      700              591 
Social security costs                                                                                                                                       26                17 
Pension costs                                                                                                                                                 53                42 
Share-based payments                                                                                                                                  17                  9 
                                                                                                                                                                 796              659 
The vast majority of employee costs are denominated in Rand and reported Dollar costs are therefore subject to foreign
exchange movements.
Notes to the Accounts [ 120 ]
5     Employees (continued)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
Key management compensation                                                                                                                                                                     $m                       $m
Short term employee benefits                                                                                                                          7                  9 
Termination payments                                                                                                                                     2                  2 
Post-employment benefits                                                                                                                             –                  1 
Key management costs excluding share-based payments                                                                              9                12 
Share-based payments                                                                                                                                   2                  2 
                                                                                                                                                                    11                14 
The key management compensation analysed above represents amounts in respect of the Exco which comprised the two
executive Directors and four other senior managers (2010 – three executive Directors and five other senior managers).
The Sterling equivalents of total Directors’ emoluments and emoluments of the highest paid Director together with full details
of Directors’ remuneration, pensions and benefits in kind are given in the Remuneration Committee Report.
The Group operates defined contribution schemes in the UK and South Africa. There were no accrued obligations under
defined contribution plans at 30 September 2011 and 2010.
The total pension cost for the Group was $53 million (2010 – $42 million), $52 million of which related to South African
schemes (2010 – $41 million).
6     Net finance (expenses) / income
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $m                       $m
Finance income:                                                                                                                                               5                10 
– Interest receivable on cash and cash equivalents                                                                                          3                  2 
– Other interest receivable                                                                                                                               –                  7 
– Exchange gains on net debt
i
                                                                                                                         2                  1 
Finance expenses:                                                                                                                                        (10)                (9)
– Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts                                                                                           (30)              (25)
– Bank fees                                                                                                                                                  (12)              (20)
– Unamortised bank fees realised on settlement of old loan facility                                                                 (7)                 – 
– Capitalised interest
ii
                                                                                                                                    46                43 
– Other finance expenses                                                                                                                                –                 (1)
– Unwind of discounting on provisions (note 22)                                                                                             (7)                (6)
Special items (note 3):                                                                                                                                  (18)               28 
– Interest on HDSA receivable (note 14)                                                                                                        15                  3 
– Exchange (loss) / gain on HDSA receivable (note 14)                                                                                   (3)               11 
– Movement in fair value of HDSA derivative (note 14)                                                                                  (24)               12 
– Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges                                                                                               (6)                 – 
– Movement in fair value of derivative liability in respect of equity issuance                                                       –                  2 
Net finance (expenses) / income                                                                                                                 (23)               29 
Footnotes:
i Net debt is defined by the Group as cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings
less unamortised bank fees.
ii Interest expenses incurred have been capitalised on a Group basis to the extent that there is an appropriate qualifying asset. The weighted average
interest rate used by the Group for capitalisation is 5.9% (2010 – 5.7%).
Notes to the Accounts [ 121 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
7     Taxation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $m                       $m
Current tax charge (excluding special items):
United Kingdom tax credit                                                                                                                               –                 (6)
Current tax credit at 28% (2010 – 28%)                                                                                                           –                 (6)
Less amount of the benefit arising from double tax relief available                                                                    –                  – 
Overseas current tax expense at 28% (2010 – 28%)                                                                                     13                  8 
Corporate tax expense – current year                                                                                                            18                  9 
Adjustment in respect of prior years                                                                                                               (6)                (3)
Tax on dividends remitted                                                                                                                                1                  2 
Deferred tax charge (excluding special items):
Deferred tax expense – UK and overseas                                                                                                      43                78 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences                                                                                           47                79 
Adjustment in respect of prior years                                                                                                               (4)                (1)
Special items – UK and overseas (note 3):                                                                                               (84)               38 
Reversal of utilisation of losses from prior years to offset deferred tax liability                                                  (2)                 – 
Exchange on current taxation
i
                                                                                                                         (1)                 1 
Exchange on deferred taxation
i
                                                                                                                     (81)               36 
Tax on special items impacting profit before tax                                                                                               –                   1 
Actual tax (credit) / charge                                                                                                                          (28)              118 
Tax charge excluding special items (note 3)                                                                                                 56                 80 
Effective tax rate                                                                                                                                        (9)%             49%
Effective tax rate excluding special items (note 3)                                                                                      18%              34%
A reconciliation of the standard tax charge to the actual tax charge was as follows:
                                                                                                                                                              2011                   2011                    2010                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                 %                      $m                         %                       $m
Tax charge on profit at standard tax rate                                                            29                85                29                70 
Tax effect of:
– Overseas taxes on dividends remitted by subsidiary companies                        –                  1                  1                  2 
– Unutilised losses
ii
                                                                                               1                  5                 (2)                (5)
– Foreign exchange impacts on taxable profits                                                  (12)              (38)                 6                14 
– Adjustment in respect of prior years                                                                 (3)              (10)                (2)                (4)
– Other                                                                                                                 4                13                  2                  4 
Special items as defined above                                                                         (28)              (84)               15                37 
Actual tax (credit) / charge                                                                                   (9)              (28)               49              118 
The Group’s primary operations are based in South Africa. The South African statutory tax rate is 28% (2010 – 28%). Lonmin Plc
operates a branch in South Africa which is subject to a tax rate of 33% on branch profits (2010 – 33%). After taking into
account the tax rate effect of the Lonmin Plc branch, the aggregated standard tax rate for the Group is 29% (2010 – 29%).
The secondary tax rate on dividends remitted by South African companies is 10% (2010 – 10%).
Footnotes:
i Overseas tax charges are predominantly calculated based in Rand as required by the local authorities. As these subsidiaries’ functional currency
is US Dollar this leads to a variety of foreign exchange impacts being the retranslation of current and deferred tax balances and monetary assets, 
as well as other translation differences. The Rand denominated deferred tax balance in US Dollars at 30 September 2011 is $569 million 
(30 September 2010 – $524 million).
ii Unutilised losses reflect losses generated in entities for which no deferred tax is provided as it is not thought probable that future profits can be
generated against which a deferred tax asset could be offset or previously unrecognised losses utilised.
Notes to the Accounts [ 122 ]
8     Earnings per share (EPS)
EPS has been calculated on the earnings attributable to equity shareholders amounting to $273 million (2010 – $112 million)
using a weighted average number of 202,446,803 ordinary shares in issue (2010 – 196,684,833 ordinary shares).
Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive
outstanding share options in accordance with IAS 33 – Earnings Per Share. 
                                                                                                          2011                                                                                          2010
                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                        Profit for                                                 Per share                   Profit for                                                   Per share
                                                                         the year               Number of                    amount                    the year                Number of                     amount
                                                                                $m                     shares                       cents                            $m                      shares                        cents
Basic EPS                                           273     202,446,803               134.8                   112     196,684,833                 56.9 
Share option schemes                            –            617,567                  (0.4)                     –            489,302                  (0.1)
Diluted EPS                                        273     203,064,370               134.4                   112     197,174,135                 56.8 
                                                                                                          2011                                                                                          2010
                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                        Profit for                                                Per share                   Profit for                                                   Per share
                                                                         the year              Number of                   amount                    the year                Number of                     amount
                                                                                $m                      shares                       cents                            $m                      shares                        cents
Underlying EPS                                    226     202,446,803               111.6                   138     196,684,833                 70.2 
Share option schemes                            –            617,567                  (0.3)                     –            489,302                  (0.2)
Diluted Underlying EPS                        226     203,064,370               111.3                   138     197,174,135                 70.0 
Underlying earnings per share has been presented as the Directors consider it important to present the underlying results of
the business. Underlying earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude
special items (as defined in note 3) as follows:
                                                                                                          2011                                                                                          2010
                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                             Profit                                                Per share                         Profit                                                   Per share
                                                                   for the year              Number of                   amount               for the year                Number of                     amount
                                                                                $m                     shares                       cents                            $m                      shares                        cents
Basic EPS                                           273     202,446,803               134.8                   112     196,684,833                 56.9 
Special items (note 3)                           (47)                     –                (23.2)                    26                       –                 13.3 
Underlying EPS                                   226    202,446,803               111.6                  138     196,684,833                 70.2 
Headline earnings and the resultant headline earnings per share are specific disclosures defined and required by the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange. These are calculated as follows: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Year ended          Year ended
                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 September      30 September
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $m                       $m
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders (IAS 33 earnings)                                                                   273               112 
Add back loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (note 4)                                                               2                   5 
Add back impairment of assets (note 3)                                                                                                            2                 12 
Tax related to the above items                                                                                                                        (1)                 (5)
Non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                  (1)                 (2)
Headline earnings                                                                                                                                       275               122 
                                                                                                          2011                                                                                          2010
                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                        Profit for                                                 Per share                   Profit for                                                   Per share
                                                                         the year              Number of                   amount                    the year                Number of                     amount
                                                                               $m                     shares                       cents                            $m                      shares                        cents
Headline EPS                                      275     202,446,803               135.8                  122     196,684,833                 62.0 
Share option schemes                            –           617,567                  (0.4)                     –            489,302                  (0.1)
Diluted Headline EPS                          275     203,064,370               135.4                  122     197,174,135                 61.9 
Notes to the Accounts [ 123 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
9     Dividends
                                                                                                                                                                      2011                                                   2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                $m Cents per share                       $m   Cents per share
Prior year final dividend paid in the year                                                              30             15.0                  –                  – 
Interim dividend paid in the year                                                                           –                  –                  –                  – 
Total dividend paid in the year                                                                        30             15.0                  –                  – 
Interim dividend paid in the year                                                                           –                  –                  –                  – 
Proposed final dividend for the year                                                                   30             15.0                30             15.0 
Total dividend in respect of the year                                                               30             15.0                30             15.0 
10   Goodwill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $m                       $m
Cost:
At 30 September                                                                                                                                       186              186 
Impairment:
At 30 September                                                                                                                                         73                73 
Net book value at 30 September                                                                                                               113              113 
There are two CGUs in the Group relevant for the purposes of evaluating goodwill. The Marikana CGU operates as a single
business and mines and processes substantially all of the ore produced by the Group. The Akanani CGU is located in a
separate geographic area and includes the Akanani asset acquired on the purchase of AfriOre Limited.
The recoverable amounts of each of the CGUs’ goodwill have been determined using the higher of value in use and fair value
less costs to sell.
In determining the recoverable amounts for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs the key assumptions have been set out in the
Group’s impairment policy (see note 1).
At 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010 goodwill is allocated as follows:
• $40 million is allocated to the Marikana CGU which is within the PGM Operations segment. This arose on the buy out of
9.11% of the non-controlling interest in the principal mining operations of the Group in 2004. 
• $73 million “tax goodwill” is allocated to the Akanani CGU which is within the Evaluation segment. This was generated on
the acquisition of the Akanani asset in 2007. 
Notes to the Accounts [ 124 ]
11   Intangible assets
                                                                                                           2011                                                                                         2010
                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                   Exploration                                                                            Exploration
                                                                                and           Mineral                                                            and            Mineral
                                                                     evaluation              rights              Other               Total        evaluation               rights              Other                Total
                                                                               $m                  $m                  $m                  $m                  $m                  $m                  $m                  $m
Cost:
At 1 October                                       710           344             53        1,107           695           337             47        1,079 
Additions                                              23               –               –             23             17               –               –             17 
Assets derecognised                              –               –            (16)           (16)              –               –               –               – 
Transfers                                                 –               –               –               –              (2)              7               6             11 
At 30 September                               733           344             37        1,114           710           344             53        1,107 
Amortisation:
At 1 October                                           –             87             42           129               –             80             35           115 
Charge for the year                                 –               7               1               8               –               7               7             14 
Assets derecognised                              –               –            (16)           (16)              –               –               –               – 
At 30 September                                   –             94             27           121               –             87             42           129 
Net book value:
At 30 September                               733           250             10           993           710           257             11           978 
The Group has exploration and evaluation assets of $733 million (2010 – $710 million) relating to the exploration and evaluation
operations at Akanani. After adding $73 million of “tax goodwill” (see note 10) and deducting deferred tax of $178 million the
net carrying value of Akanani in the books is $628 million including the non-controlling interests’ share.
Additions to exploration and evaluation assets include $20 million of capitalised interest (2010 – $15 million).
The Group’s approach to assessing the intangible assets, including exploration and evaluation assets, for impairment is set
out in the accounting policies (see note 1).
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill (see note 10).
As part of a review of the intangible assets register, certain fully amortised items were derecognised from the assets register.
Notes to the Accounts [ 125 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
12   Property, plant and equipment
                                                            Capital work           Leasehold          Shafts and                                                               Other plant                            
                                                               in progress           short term      underground      Metallurgical     Infrastructure   and equipment                    Total
                                                                           $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Cost or deemed cost:
At 1 October 2010                           397                  1           1,429              638              528                83           3,076 
Additions                                         390                  –                20                  2                23                51              486 
Transfers                                          (72)                 –                25                26                21                  –                  – 
Disposals                                            –                 (1)                (3)                 –                 (2)                (1)                (7)
At 30 September 2011                  715                  –           1,471              666              570              133           3,555 
Depreciation:
At 1 October 2010                              –                  –              432              212              211                22              877 
Charge for the year                             –                  –                38                28                46                  2              114 
Impairment charge                              –                  –                  –                  –                  2                  –                  2 
Disposals                                            –                  –                 (3)                 –                 (1)                (1)                (5)
At 30 September 2011                      –                  –              467              240              258                23              988 
Net book value:
At 30 September 2011                  715                  –           1,004              426              312              110           2,567 
At 30 September 2010                   397                  1              997              426              317                61           2,199 
                                                              Capital work            Leasehold           Shafts and                                                                   Other plant                            
                                                                in progress            short term        underground         Metallurgical       Infrastructure    and equipment                     Total
                                                                           $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Cost or deemed cost:
At 1 October 2009                          274                  1           1,424              583              406                99           2,787 
Additions                                         262                  –                18                  2                  9                  2              293 
Transfers                                        (139)                 –               (12)               53              117               (18)                 1 
Disposals                                            –                  –                 (1)                 –                 (4)                 –                 (5)
At 30 September 2010                   397                  1           1,429              638              528                83           3,076 
Depreciation:
At 1 October 2009                              –                  –              383              175              175                18              751 
Charge for the year                             –                  –                43                30                31                  4              108 
Impairment charge                              –                  –                  –                10                  2                  –                12 
Transfers                                             –                  –                  6                 (3)                 3                  –                  6 
At 30 September 2010                        –                  –              432              212              211                22              877 
Net book value:
At 30 September 2010                   397                  1              997              426              317                61           2,199 
At 30 September 2009                   274                  1           1,041              408              231                81           2,036 
Interest capitalised during 2011 amounted to $26 million (2010 – $28 million). In accordance with the Group accounting
policies no depreciation has been provided on surface mining land having a book value of $13 million (2010 – $13 million).
Notes to the Accounts [ 126 ]
13   Equity accounted investments
The Group owns 23.56% of its associate, Incwala which is incorporated in South Africa. The functional currency of Incwala 
is the South African Rand. As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the company are
recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group also owns 42.5% of the Pandora joint venture whose operations are in South Africa. The Group equity accounts
for the joint venture as a jointly controlled entity. The functional currency of the Pandora joint venture is the South African
Rand. As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the entity are recognised in the
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
                                                                                                                             2011                                                                             2010
                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                   Group                                                                        Group                                                        
                                                                                                share of                                                                     share of                                                        
                                                                                             net assets             Goodwill                    Total            net assets              Goodwill                     Total
                                                                                                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Net book value at 1 October                                 166                  6              172              153                  6              159 
Share of profit                                                           9                  –                  9                  8                  –                  8 
Distribution of profits                                                 –                  –                  –                 (1)                 –                 (1)
Capital contributions                                                 2                  –                  2                  3                  –                  3 
Foreign exchange                                                    (8)                 –                 (8)                 3                  –                  3 
Net book value at 30 September                       169                  6              175              166                  6              172 
The Group’s share of the net assets of equity accounted investments comprises the following:
                                                                                                                             2011                                                                             2010
                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                             Associate      Joint venture                    Total             Associate        Joint venture                     Total
                                                                                                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Non-current assets                                               143                40              183              145                33              178 
Current assets                                                          5                35                40                  5                38                43 
Current liabilities                                                       (3)              (27)              (30)                (3)              (24)              (27)
Non-current liabilities                                             (24)                 –               (24)              (28)                 –               (28)
Net assets                                                           121                48              169              119                47              166 
Amounts recognised by the Group in respect of the equity accounted investments comprise:
                                                                                                                             2011                                                                             2010
                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                             Associate      Joint venture                    Total             Associate        Joint venture                     Total
                                                                                                        $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Share of net assets                                               121                48              169              119                47              166 
Goodwill                                                                   6                  –                  6                  6                  –                  6 
                                                                            127                48              175             125                47              172 
The Group’s share of the profit of equity accounted investments comprises the following:
                                                                                                                             2011                                                                             2010
                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                             Associate      Joint venture                    Total             Associate        Joint venture                     Total
                                                                                                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Revenue / income                                                     2                17                19                 5                19                24 
Expenses including taxation                                     (1)                (9)              (10)                (2)              (14)              (16)
Profit                                                                        1                  8                  9                  3                  5                  8 
Notes to the Accounts [ 127 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
14   Other financial assets
                                                                                                                                                       Available                  HDSA                  HDSA
                                                                                                                                                          for sale           receivable            derivative                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                 $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
At 1 October 2010                                                                                              62              318                24              404 
Additions                                                                                                               9                21                  –                30 
Interest accrued                                                                                                    –                15                  –                15 
Movement in fair value                                                                                      (20)                  –              (24)              (44)
Exchange differences                                                                                           (3)                (3)                 –                 (6)
At 30 September 2011                                                                                     48              351                  –              399 
                                                                                                                                                         Available                  HDSA                  HDSA
                                                                                                                                                           for sale            receivable             derivative                     Total
                                                                                                                                                                 $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
At 1 October 2009                                                                                              68                25                  –                93 
Additions                                                                                                               –              273                12              285 
Interest accrued                                                                                                    –                  9                  –                  9 
Movement in fair value                                                                                         (6)                 –                12                  6 
Exchange differences                                                                                            –                11                  –                11 
At 30 September 2010                                                                                        62              318                24              404 
Listed investments within available for sale financial assets are held at fair value using the market price on 30 September 2011
and 30 September 2010.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $m                       $m 
Listed investments                                                                                                                                       30                50 
Listed investments include a 4% shareholding in Platmin Limited (2010 – 4%) which was listed on the Alternative Investment
Market on 10 August 2006.
Available for sale financial assets include $18 million (2010 – $12 million) of restricted cash deposits in respect of rehabilitation
obligations.
On 8 July 2010, Lonmin entered into an agreement to provide financing amounting to £200 million for Shanduka’s acquisition,
at fair value, of 50.03% of shares in Incwala from the original HDSA shareholders. The terms of the financing provided by
Lonmin to Shanduka include the accrual of interest on the HDSA receivable at fixed rates based on a principal value of 
£200 million which is repayable after five years including accrued interest, or earlier at Shanduka’s discretion.
Details of the change in the HDSA derivative during the year can be found in note 20g.
15   Inventories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $m                       $m
Consumables                                                                                                                                                50                50 
Work in progress                                                                                                                                         299              327 
Finished goods                                                                                                                                              35                19 
                                                                                                                                                                  384              396 
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $1,442 million (2010 – $1,114 million).
Notes to the Accounts [ 128 ]
16   Trade and other receivables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $m                       $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables                                                                                                                                           82              316 
Other receivables                                                                                                                                           66                77 
Prepayments and accrued income                                                                                                                  6                21 
                                                                                                                                                                 154             414 
17   Trade and other payables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $m                       $m
Trade payables                                                                                                                                            179              166 
Accruals and other payables                                                                                                                       167              205 
Indirect taxation and social security                                                                                                                 8                10 
                                                                                                                                                                 354              381 
18   Interest bearing loans and borrowings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $m                       $m
Short term loans:
Bank loans – unsecured                                                                                                                                10                66 
Long term loans:
Bank loans – unsecured                                                                                                                               300              457 
                                                                                                                                                                 310              523 
The maturity profile of interest bearing loans and borrowings is disclosed in note 20b.
In 2011 $8 million (2010 – $10 million) of unamortised bank fees have been offset against loans according to the amortisation
profile.
In July Lonmin announced that it had reorganised its bank debt facilities and replaced the existing $875 million in bank debt
facilities with new facilities totalling approximately $945 million. The new facilities extend the maturity profile of Lonmin’s debt,
with $850 million of the new facilities being committed for five years and the remaining facilities being one year rolling facilities.
The new facilities consist of a $700 million syndicated US Dollar facility and three South African Rand bilateral facilities of 
R660 million each.
The main features of the $700 million syndicated facility which is supported by BNP Paribas S.A., Citigroup Global Markets
Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, J.P . Morgan Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. and Standard
Chartered Bank are as follows:
• a $300 million five-year amortising term facility that matures in May 2016;
• a $400 million five-year committed revolving credit facility that matures in May 2016;
• the margin on both these facilities is 275bps up to 30 September 2011, and will thereafter be determined by reference to
net debt / EBITDA and will be in the range 200bps to 375bps;
• the key covenants in these facilities include a maximum consolidated net debt / underlying EBITDA ratio of 4.0 times and
a minimum EBITDA / net interest ratio of 3.5 times; and
• these facilities will be used to support the longer term capital requirements of the Group. The syndicated facility
consolidates all of Lonmin’s US Dollar debt within Lonmin Plc and improves the pricing, credit margins and covenants.
The three R660 million bilateral facilities are at the WPL level, the operating company, and will be used for day-to-day working
capital requirements. These facilities are supported by FirstRand Bank Limited, Investec Bank Limited and The Standard Bank
of South Africa Limited. The main features of these facilities are as follows:
• each facility is of a revolving credit nature and consists of a R330 million five-year committed component and a R330 million
one-year committed component that can be rolled annually;
• the margins on these facilities vary from facility to facility and bank to bank; and
• the key covenants in these facilities include a maximum net debt / EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times and a minimum EBITDA /
net interest ratio of 3.5 times calculated at a WPL level.
As at 30 September 2011, Lonmin had net debt of $234 million, comprising $310 million of drawn facilities net of $76 million
of cash and cash equivalents and $8 million of unamortised bank fees and a further $8 million of external debt incurred to fund
the construction of a chrome treatment plant with an outside partner.
Notes to the Accounts [ 129 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
19   Derivative financial instruments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         $m                       $m
Current liabilities
Derivative financial instruments liability                                                                                                           5                  1 
Non-current liabilities
Derivative financial instruments liability                                                                                                           9                  – 
The Group does not undertake trading activity in financial instruments. Forward sales may be undertaken where the Board
determines that it is in the Group’s interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows as they mitigate exposure to future price
fluctuations. Such forward sales are designated as cash flow hedges at inception. For both 2011 and 2010 such forward
sales contracts have only been made to hedge the prices of gold, nickel and copper and such contracts are typically settled
within one year. The fair value of forward sales contracts at the end of 2011 amounted to $nil (2010 – liability of $1 million). 
In addition in 2011 the Group has entered into a five year $300 million interest rate swap to swap its exposure to a base
floating interest rate linked to a six month USD Libor into a blended fixed rate of 2.1711% on its $300 million syndicated term
loan that matures on 25 May 2016. This swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge. The fair value of interest rate
swaps at the end of 2011 amounted to a liability of $14 million (2010 – $nil). In addition to the base rate, the loan also carries
a credit margin, which at inception was 2.75% but which following November 2011, should fall to 2.00% as long as the Group
Net Debt / underlying EBITDA is less than 1.5 times. 
20   Financial risk management
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs (liquidity risk), the risk of
default by counterparties to financial transactions (credit risk), fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates and
commodity prices (market risk). 
These are the critical factors to consider when addressing the issue of whether the Group is a Going Concern. As is clear from
the following paragraphs, the Group is in a strong position regarding financial risk. There are, however, factors which are
outside the control of management, specifically, volatility in the Rand / US Dollar exchange rate and PGM commodity prices,
which can have a significant impact on the business.
20a Credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was:
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                              $m                       $m
Non-current assets:
HDSA receivable                                                                                                                                   351              318 
HDSA derivative asset                                                                                                                               –                24 
Other financial assets – rehabilitation deposits                                                                                        18                12 
Current assets:
Trade receivables                                                                                                                                   82              316 
Other receivables                                                                                                                                    66                77 
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                     76              148 
                                                                                                                                                           593              895
HDSA receivables
HDSA receivables as described in note 14 are secured on the HDSA’s shareholding in Incwala.
The HDSA receivable of $351 million (2010 – $318 million) is not past due and has no provision against it.
Notes to the Accounts [ 130 ]
20   Financial risk management (continued)
20a Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables
The Group is exposed to significant trade receivable credit risk through the sale of PGM metals to a limited group of
customers.
This risk is managed as follows:
• age analysis is performed on trade receivable balances and reviewed on a monthly basis;
• credit ratings are obtained on any new customers and the credit ratings of existing customers are monitored on an
ongoing basis;
• credit limits are set for customers; and
• trigger points and escalation procedures are clearly defined.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic location was:
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                              $m                       $m
The Americas                                                                                                                                            3                  5
Asia                                                                                                                                                           5                  5
Europe                                                                                                                                                    53              246
South Africa                                                                                                                                            21                60
                                                                                                                                                             82              316
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows:
                                                                                                                             2011                                                                             2010
                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                          Gross            Provision                      Net                   Gross              Provision                      Net
                                                                                             $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Not past due                                                   82                  –                82              316                  –              316 
Banking counterparties
Banking counterparty credit risk is managed by spreading financial transactions across an approved list of counterparties
of high credit quality. Banking counterparties are approved by the Board and consist of the ten banks that have
participated in Lonmin’s new bank debt facilities as described in note 18.
Notes to the Accounts [ 131 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
20   Financial risk management (continued)
20b Liquidity risk and capital management
Liquidity risk
The policy on overall liquidity is to ensure that the Group has sufficient funds to facilitate all ongoing operations.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of
netting agreements:
                                                                                      Carrying        Contractual                       < 1                  1 to 2                  2 to 5                       > 5
                                                                                        amount          cash flows                     year                   years                   years                   years
30 September 2011                                                              $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Financial liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans                                   318             (359)              (19)              (17)            (323)                 – 
Trade and other payables                              354             (354)            (354)                 –                  –                  – 
Derivative financial instruments                        14               (14)                (5)                (5)                (4)                 – 
                                                                                       Carrying          Contractual                       < 1                   1 to 2                   2 to 5                       > 5
                                                                                        amount           cash flows                     year                    years                    years                    years
30 September 2010                                                                $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Financial liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans                                   533             (606)            (107)            (391)            (108)                 – 
Trade and other payables                              381             (381)            (381)                 –                  –                  – 
Derivative financial instruments                          1                 (1)                (1)                 –                  –                  – 
Capital management
The Group’s philosophy on capital management is to maintain a low level of financial gearing given the exposure of the
business to fluctuations in PGM commodity prices and the Rand / US Dollar exchange rate. The Group funds its
operations through a mixture of equity funding and bank borrowings. 
The table below presents quantitative data for the components the Group manages as capital:
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                $m                       $m
Equity shareholders’ funds                                                                                                               2,930           2,709 
Loans and borrowings                                                                                                                          310              523 
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                   (76)            (148)
At 30 September                                                                                                                             3,164           3,084 
As part of the annual budgeting and long term planning process, the Group’s cash flow forecast is reviewed and
approved by the Board. The cash flow forecast is amended for any material changes identified during the year, for
example material acquisitions and disposals. Where funding requirements are identified from the cash flow forecast,
appropriate measures are taken to ensure these requirements can be satisfied. Factors taken into consideration are:
• the size and nature of the requirement;
• preferred sources of finance applying key criteria of cost, commitment, availability, security / covenant conditions;
• recommended counterparties, fees and market conditions; and
• covenants, guarantees and other financial commitments.
Gearing, calculated on net borrowings attributable to the Group divided by those attributable net borrowings and the
equity interests outstanding at the balance sheet date, was 7% at 30 September 2011 (30 September 2010 – 10%). The
ratio of consolidated net debt to underlying EBITDA decreased from 1.07 times at 30 September 2010 to 0.54 times at
30 September 2011 which is well within the covenants relating to the bank facilities.
Notes to the Accounts [ 132 ]
20   Financial risk management (continued)
20c Foreign currency risk
The Group’s operations are essentially based in South Africa and the majority of the revenue stream is in US Dollars.
However, the bulk of the Group’s operating costs and taxes are paid in Rand. Most of the cash received in South Africa 
is in US Dollars. Most of the Group’s funding sources are in US Dollars.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on monetary items that are denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency of the relevant Group entity.
The table below shows the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other
than the functional currency of the relevant Group entity. Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of such assets
and liabilities are recognised in the income statement.
                                                                                                           2011                                                                                         2010
                                                                                                                                                                
                                                              SA Rand          Sterling              Other               Total         SA Rand           Sterling              Other                Total
                                                                       $m                  $m                  $m                  $m                 $m                  $m                  $m                  $m
Non-current assets:
Available for sale 
financial assets                              18               –             30             48             12               –             50             62 
HDSA receivable                              –           351               –           351               –           318               –           318 
HDSA derivative                               –               –               –               –               –             24               –             24 
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables          108               1               –           109           104               –               –           104 
Cash and cash equivalents             43               3               –             46             49               1               –             50 
Tax recoverable                               1               –               –               1               –               –               –               – 
Current liabilities:
Trade and other payables           (333)             (6)             (6)         (345)         (355)           (16)             (1)         (372)
Tax payable                                    (2)              –               –              (2)             (6)              –               –              (6)
Interest bearing loans 
and borrowings                            (10)              –               –            (10)           (11)              –               –            (11)
Non-current liabilities:
Interest bearing loans 
and borrowings                              (8)              –               –              (8)         (253)              –               –          (253)
                                                 (183)          349             24           190          (460)          327             49            (84)
The principal exchange rates impacting the Group’s results are Rand / Dollar and Sterling / Dollar. Details of average
exchange rates and closing exchange rates can be found in the Operating Statistics.
The Group also carries a $569 million Rand denominated deferred tax liability on the balance sheet which is exposed to
currency risk (2010 – $524 million).
Our current policy is not to hedge Rand / US Dollar currency exposures and, therefore, fluctuations in the Rand to US
Dollar exchange rate can have a significant impact on the Group’s results. A strengthening of the Rand against the US
Dollar has an adverse effect on profits due to the majority of operating costs being paid in Rand. 
The approximate effects on the Group’s results of a 10% movement in the Rand to US Dollar 2011 average and closing
exchange rate would be as follows:
EBIT +/- $142m
Profit for the year +/- $102m
Equity +/- $102m
EPS (cents) +/- 50.6c
These sensitivities are based on 2011 prices, costs and volumes and assume all other variables remain constant.
Notes to the Accounts [ 133 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
20   Financial risk management (continued)
20d Interest rate risk
Currently, the bulk of our outstanding borrowings are in US Dollars and at floating rates of interest. However, to provide
greater certainty, Lonmin entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap on the term component of the US Dollar debt.
This fixes the base rate in respect of the $300 million term facility for the next five years (refer to note 19 for details). The
interest position is kept under constant review in conjunction with the liquidity policy outlined in note 20b and the future
funding requirements of the business.
Based on contracted maturities the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over future years as shown below:
                                                                                                  Weighted average                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                interest rate in 2011                    2012                    2013                    2014                    2015
                                                                                                                             %                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans
i
                                                          5.9               (10)                (8)                 –                  – 
                                                                                                    Non-interest bearing                     At floating interest rates                         At fixed interest rates
                                                    
                                                                                            2011                    2010                    2011                    2010                    2011                    2010
                                                                                              $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Financial assets:
US Dollar                                                         39              289                29                98                  –                  – 
SA Rand                                                        109              116                61                49                  –                  – 
Sterling                                                              1                24                  3                  1              351              318 
Other                                                               30                50                  1                  –                  –                  – 
                                                                     179              479                94              148              351              318 
                                                                                                    Non-interest bearing                     At floating interest rates                         At fixed interest rates
                                                    
                                                                                            2011                    2010                    2011                    2010                    2011                    2010
                                                                                              $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Financial liabilities:
US Dollar                                                           9                  9                14              270              300                  – 
SA Rand                                                        335              362                18              263                  –                  – 
Sterling                                                              6                16                  –                  –                  –                  – 
Other                                                                 6                  1                  –                  –                  –                  – 
                                                                     356              388                32              533              300                  – 
Footnote:
i Figures are based on facilities outstanding at the balance sheet date.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
A change in the interest rate will have limited effect on equity and profit or loss due to the majority of interest being capitalised. 
20e Commodity price risk
Our policy is not to hedge commodity price exposure on PGMs, except gold, and therefore any change in prices will have
a direct effect on the Group’s trading results.
For base metals and gold, hedging is undertaken where the Board determines that it is in the Group’s interest to hedge a
proportion of future cash flows. The policy is to hedge up to a maximum of 75% of the future cash flows from the sale of
these products looking forward over the next 12 to 24 months. The Group did undertake a number of hedging contracts
on Nickel, Copper and Gold sales using forward contracts during the year although no forward contracts were in place at
year end.
The approximate effects on the Group’s results of a 10% movement in the 2011 average metal prices achieved for
Platinum (Pt) ($1,769 per ounce) and Rhodium (Rh) ($2,145 per ounce) would be as follows:
Pt Rh
EBIT +/- $128m +/- $22m
Profit for the year +/- $92m +/- $16m
Equity +/- $92m +/- $16m
EPS (cents) +/- 45.4c +/- 7.8c
These sensitivities are based on 2011 prices, costs and volumes and assume all other variables remain constant.
Notes to the Accounts [ 134 ]
20   Financial risk management (continued)
20f Fair values
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the statement of financial
position, are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                      2011                                                   2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                               Carrying                      Fair               Carrying                      Fair
                                                                                                                                                amount                   value                amount                    value
                                                                                                                                                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Available for sale financial assets                                                                 48                48                62                62 
HDSA receivable                                                                                       351              351              318              323 
HDSA derivative                                                                                             –                21                24                45 
Trade and other receivables                                                                       148              148              393              393 
Tax recoverable                                                                                              1                  1                  –                  – 
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                         76                76              148              148 
Financial assets                                                                                      624              645              945              971 
Trade and other payables                                                                         (354)            (354)            (381)            (381)
Unsecured bank loans                                                                             (318)            (318)            (533)            (533)
Derivative financial instruments                                                                  (14)              (14)                (1)                (1)
Tax payable                                                                                                   (2)                (2)                (6)                (6)
Financial liabilities                                                                                  (688)            (688)            (921)            (921)
Net financial (liabilities) / assets                                                              (64)              (43)               24                50 
Listed investments within available for sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments are marked to market. 
The residual balances relate to cash deposits held in respect of rehabilitation obligations for which carrying values are at
fair value.
The HDSA receivable represents loans held at amortised cost.
The HDSA derivative asset and other derivative financial instruments are held at fair value subject to limitations under
IFRS in recognising day one gains (see note 20g).
For cash and cash equivalents the carrying value is equal to fair value.
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables these are typically due within one month and therefore the
carrying amount is fair value.
For unsecured bank loans there is considered to be no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value.
Amounts are shown gross of unamortised bank fees.
Notes to the Accounts [ 135 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
20   Financial risk management (continued)
20g Fair value hierarchy
The following is an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured at fair value.
They are grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the extent to which the fair value is observable.
The levels are classified as follows:
Level 1 – fair value is based on quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities;
Level 2 – fair value is determined using inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
Level 3 – fair value is determined on inputs not based on observable market data.
2011
                                                                                                                                                 Level 1                Level 2                Level 3                    Total
                                                                                                                                                      $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Available for sale financial assets                                                                  30                   –                   –                 30 
HDSA derivative asset                                                                                    –                   –                   –                   – 
Derivative financial instruments                                                                       –                (14)                  –                (14)
                                                                                                                  30                (14)                  –                 16 
2010
                                                                                                                                                  Level 1                 Level 2                 Level 3                     Total
                                                                                                                                                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Available for sale financial assets                                                                  50                   –                   –                 50 
HDSA derivative asset                                                                                    –                   –                 24                 24 
Derivative financial instruments                                                                       –                  (1)                  –                  (1)
                                                                                                                  50                  (1)                24                 73 
There were no transfers between level 1 and level 2 during the year ended 30 September 2011.
The derivative financial asset classified at level 3 relates only to arrangements with Shanduka for Lonmin to participate in
equity gains arising from Shanduka’s investment in Incwala. The value of the derivative is based on the equity gain arising
on Shanduka’s interest in Incwala and therefore the underlying value of the PGM operations in which Incwala has an
interest. This is assessed by using a “see-through” valuation method based on the overall value of Lonmin Plc. Whilst the
calculation of the value of the derivative instrument therefore includes a Monte Carlo analysis of Lonmin’s share price, the
valuation is also dependant on a number of key management assumptions and must be classified as level 3 under IFRS 7.
The key management assumptions include an assessment of Lonmin’s share price volatility, the nature of various liquidity
events which can give rise to settlement of the derivative, the likelihood of settlement occurring and the timing of the
settlement event. As at 30 September 2011 a 10% movement in share price will impact the fair value by $4 million, a 10%
movement in volatility will affect the fair value by $1 million. The fair value calculated assumes that there is only a 10%
chance of the derivative being settled before the instrument becomes due at the end of five years. If settlement were to
occur in year 3, which is considered to be the earliest possible settlement date, the fair value would reduce by $6 million.
IAS 39 does not permit a day one gain to be recognised to the extent that the fair value of the hybrid financial instrument
is derived from unobservable market data. At initial recognition the fair value of the derivative was $33 million, however,
this included day one gains of $21 million which are not permitted to be recognised and therefore management’s assessment
of the unobservable data contributing to the valuation of the asset was adjusted to eliminate the day one gain.
Subsequent to initial recognition a fair value decrease of $12 million occurred in the period to 30 September 2011 (split
between a $12 million increase to 30 September 2010 and a $24 million decrease to 30 September 2011), reducing the
carrying value of the derivative on the statement of financial position to $nil and the fair value decreased to $21 million as
disclosed in note 20f. Subsequent to initial recognition, IAS 39 requires that a gain or loss shall be recognised only to the
extent that it arises from a change in a factor (including time) that market participants would consider in setting a price.
Notes to the Accounts [ 136 ]
21   Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
                                                                                                                             2011                                                                             2010
                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                               Deferred             Deferred                      Net               Deferred               Deferred                      Net
                                                                                             tax assets       tax liabilities               balance            tax assets          tax liabilities                balance
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in respect of:                                    $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Non-current assets                                                   –             (773)            (773)                 –             (790)            (790)
Provisions                                                               47                  –                47                29                  –                29 
Cash flow hedges                                                     –                  –                  –                  1                  –                  1 
Trading losses                                                           –                  –                  –                  3                  –                  3 
Share-based payments                                           10                  –                10                  6                  –                  6 
                                                                              57             (773)            (716)               39             (790)            (751)
Movement in temporary differences during the year
                                                                                                                                              Recognised in income
                                                                                                         
At 1
                      Special items                                          
Recognised in                   At 30
                                                                                                October           Exchange      Other special                             comprehensive         September
                                                                                                      2010        movements                   items          Underlying                income                    2011
                                                                                                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Non-current assets                                              (790)               85                  1               (69)                 –             (773)
Provisions                                                               29                 (3)                 –                21                  –                47 
Cash flow hedges                                                     1                  –                  –                 (1)                 –                  – 
Trading losses                                                           3                  –                  –                 (1)                (2)                 – 
Share-based payments                                             6                 (1)                 –                  7                 (2)               10 
                                                                           (751)               81                  1               (43)                (4)            (716)
                                                                                                                                                Recognised in income
                                                                                                         
At 1
                       Special items                                               
Recognised in                   At 30
                                                                                                 October            Exchange       Other special                                 comprehensive           September
                                                                                                      2009          movements                   items           Underlying                income                    2010
                                                                                                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Non-current assets                                              (705)              (39)                 3               (49)                 –             (790)
Provisions                                                               31                  2                  –                 (4)                 –                29 
Cash flow hedges                                                     –                  –                  –                  –                  1                  1 
Trading losses                                                         25                  1                  2               (25)                 –                  3 
Share-based payments                                             6                  –                  –                  –                  –                  6 
                                                                           (643)              (36)                 5               (78)                 1             (751)
Notes to the Accounts [ 137 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
21   Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) (continued)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
                                                                                                                                                                      2011                                                   2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                           Unrecognised                                   Unrecognised
                                                                                                                                                                              deferred tax                                      deferred tax
                                                                                                                                                     Temporary                assets/           Temporary                 assets/
                                                                                                                                                    differences           (liabilities)           differences              (liabilities)
                                                                                                                                                                 $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Capital losses carried forward                                                                          613              172              613              171 
Trading and other losses carried forward                                                            79                22              200                53 
Unredeemed capital expenditure                                                                      293                82              298                83 
Share-based payments                                                                                        3                  1                  4                  1 
Unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries                                                  (1,700)            (170)         (1,400)            (140)
                                                                                                                   (712)             107             (285)             168 
The temporary differences above, except for the unremitted profits from overseas subsidiaries, are subject to the local tax rate
in the United Kingdom at 28% (2010 – 28%), South Africa at 28% (2010 – 28%) and Canada at 18% (2010 – 18%). The
unrecognised deferred tax liabilities generated by the timing difference relating to unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries
have been calculated using the South African secondary tax rate of 10% (2010 – 10%).
At 30 September 2011, the Group had an amount of $111 million (2010 – $111 million) of surplus Advanced Corporation Tax
(ACT) available, subject to certain restrictions, for set-off against future United Kingdom corporation tax liabilities. “Shadow
ACT” amounted to $257 million (2010 – $252 million) and must be set-off prior to the utilisation of surplus ACT.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of the trading and other losses and the capital losses as
management believe the chances of recovery are low.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted foreign profits when it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the
foreseeable future. Generally retained profits arising in South Africa that have arisen in prior years are retained there in order to
fund capital expenditure requirements.
22   Provisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $m                       $m
At 1 October                                                                                                                                                  80                67 
Capitalised on non-current assets                                                                                                                  52                  2 
Established in the year                                                                                                                                      2                  – 
Utilised in the year                                                                                                                                            –                 (2)
Unwinding of discount (note 6)                                                                                                                         7                  6 
Exchange differences                                                                                                                                    (16)                 7 
At 30 September                                                                                                                                      125                80 
Provisions represent site rehabilitation liabilities and generally assume the cash flows occur at the end of the life of the mine.
23   Contingent liabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $m                       $m
Third party guarantees
i
                                                                                                                                   50                50 
Indemnities
ii
                                                                                                                                                     –                25 
                                                                                                                                                                      50                75 
Footnotes:
i The Group provided third party guarantees to the Department of Minerals and Energy in connection with environmental and rehabilitation
obligations which the Group has to fund in order to restore the environment once all mining operations have ceased.
ii On 30 September 2011 Lonmin subscribed for an additional R175.5 million in preference shares from Lexshell 806 Investments (Pty) Limited,
Shanduka’s investment vehicle in Incwala. These funds were then used by Incwala (WPL’s BEE Shareholder) to settle its outstanding liabilities that
had previously been guaranteed by Lonmin and as a result at year end no contingent liabilities in this regard were outstanding. 
Notes to the Accounts [ 138 ]
24   Called up share capital and share premium account
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Number                       $m
Ordinary shares of $1 each: 
– Issued and fully paid – 2011                                                                                                        202,657,369              203 
– Issued and fully paid – 2010                                                                                                        202,292,445              202 
Deferred shares of £1 each:
– Issued and fully paid – 2011 and 2010                                                                                                50,000                  – 
                                                                                                                                                                                Issued and               Paid up                 Share 
                                                                                                                                                                                    fully paid               amount             premium 
                                                                                                                                                                                    Number                       $m                       $m
At 1 October 2010:
Ordinary shares of $1 each                                                                                      202,292,445              202              997 
The issue of shares pursuant to:
– exercises under the The Lonmin Executive Share Option Scheme                                 10,217                  –                  – 
– exercises under the Lonmin Share Option Scheme                                                               50                  –                  – 
– exercises under the Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1994                       1,657                  –                  – 
– issue of shares to the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust 
(Shareholder Value Incentive Plan and Stay & Prosper Plan)                                         353,000                  1                  – 
At 30 September 2011:
Ordinary shares of $1 each                                                                                    202,657,369              203              997 
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of the
ordinary shares are governed by law and the Company’s Articles of Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to receive notice of any general meeting, 
to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy and are entitled to participate in any distribution of
income or capital.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except where the
Company has exercised its rights to suspend voting rights or to prohibit transfer.
25   Share plans
At 30 September 2011, the following options and awards were outstanding:
                                                                                                                                                                                    Weighted 
                                                                                                                                                                                      average             Weighted             Weighted 
                                                                                                                                                                                      exercise                average                average 
                                                                                                                                                                                       price of            remaining              fair value
                                                                                                                                                     Number of          outstanding           contracted            of options 
                                                                                                                                                            shares    options (pence)            life (years)           granted (£)
Share Plans
Executive Share Option Scheme
Outstanding at 1 October 2010                                                                 137,972      1,023.04                  –                  – 
Granted during the year                                                                                         –                  –                  –                  – 
Exercised during the year                                                                            (10,217)        989.00                  –                  – 
Lapsed during the year                                                                                          –                  –                  –                  – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2011                                                           127,755      1,025.76             1.20                  – 
Exercisable at the end of the year                                                              127,755                  –                  –                  – 
Lonmin Share Option Scheme 
Outstanding at 1 October 2010                                                                     1,950      1,098.00                  –                  – 
Granted during the year                                                                                         –                  –                  –                  – 
Exercised during the year                                                                                   (50)     1,098.00                  –                  – 
Lapsed during the year                                                                                          –                  –                  –                  – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2011                                                               1,900      1,098.00             0.75                  – 
Exercisable at the end of the year                                                                  1,900                  –                  –                  – 
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Outstanding at 1 October 2010                                                                     1,959      1,591.00                  –                  – 
Granted during the year                                                                                         –                  –                  –                  – 
Exercised during the year                                                                              (1,657)     1,591.00                  –                  – 
Lapsed during the year                                                                                     (302)     1,591.00                  –                  – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2011                                                                      –                  –                  –                  – 
Exercisable at the end of the year                                                                          –                  –                  –                  – 
Notes to the Accounts [ 139 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
25   Share plans (continued)
                                                                                                                                                                                    Weighted 
                                                                                                                                                                                      average             Weighted             Weighted 
                                                                                                                                                                                      exercise                average                average 
                                                                                                                                                                                       price of            remaining              fair value
                                                                                                                                                     Number of          outstanding           contracted            of options 
                                                                                                                                                            shares    options (pence)            life (years)           granted (£)
LTIP
Outstanding at 1 October 2010                                                              1,077,030                  –                  –                  – 
Granted during the year                                                                             597,458                  –                  –                  – 
Exercised during the year                                                                            (20,781)                 –                  –                  – 
Lapsed during the year                                                                             (231,976)                 –                  –                  – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2011                                                        1,421,731                  –             2.04            11.39
Exercisable at the end of the year                                                                          –                  –                  –                   –
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
Outstanding at 1 October 2010                                                                   73,832                  –                  –                  – 
Granted during the year                                                                                         –                  –                  –                  – 
Exercised during the year                                                                            (27,889)                 –                  –                  – 
Lapsed during the year                                                                                 (6,307)                 –                  –                  – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2011                                                             39,636                  –             0.17                  – 
Exercisable at the end of the year                                                                          –                  –                  –                  – 
Stay & Prosper Plan 
Outstanding at 1 October 2010                                                              2,128,587                  –                  –                  – 
Granted during the year                                                                          1,096,449                  –                  –                  – 
Exercised during the year                                                                          (284,779)                 –                  –                  – 
Lapsed during the year                                                                             (446,843)                 –                  –                  – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2011                                                        2,493,414                  –             2.07           11.47 
Exercisable at the end of the year                                                                          –                  –                  –                  – 
Further information about each of the above plans, including the performance conditions, can be found in the Remuneration
Committee Report.
Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust (the “Trust”)
At 30 September 2011 the Trust held 163,304 shares (beneficially and as bare trustee) (2010 – 131,920 shares). The market
value of these shares at the year end was $2.7 million. Where not waived, dividends payable on these shares are held by the
Trust on behalf of the participants. Ian Farmer and Simon Scott are deemed to have a beneficial interest, to the extent of their
Invested and Bonus Shares pursuant to the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (included in the table of Directors’ share interests),
and a non-beneficial interest in the balance.
Details of options granted during the year
The fair value of equity settled options granted in the year have been measured using the weighted average inputs below and
the following valuation models:
SAYE                                                                                                                                                                 Black-Scholes
LTIP                                                                                                                                                                      Monte Carlo
DABP                                                                                                                                                                    Monte Carlo
Stay & Prosper                                                                                                                                                      Monte Carlo
Scarce Skills                                                                                                                                                      Black-Scholes
                                                                                                                                                                                          2011                                                2010
Range of share price at date of grant (£)                                                                 12.35 – 16.83                     16.32 – 20.27
Exercise price (£)                                                                                                                         –                                         – 
Expected option life (years)                                                                                                         3                                         3
Volatility                                                                                                                                 69%                                    75%
Dividend yield                                                                                                                       1.2%                                      n/a
Risk free interest rate                                                                                                            0.1%                                   0.8%
Volatility was calculated with reference to the Group’s historic share price volatility up to the grant date. The number of years
of historic data used is equal to the term of each option. 
Notes to the Accounts [ 140 ]
26   Related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors and key management (as disclosed in the Remuneration Report
and in note 5) and its equity accounted investments (note 13).
The Group’s related party transactions and balances are summarised below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $m                      $m
Purchases from joint venture – Pandora                                                                                                         46                42 
Amounts due from joint venture – Pandora                                                                                                       1                  1 
Amounts due from associate – Incwala                                                                                                            2                  2 
Dividends to minorities – Incwala
i
                                                                                                                    10                22 
Interest accrued from HDSA investors in Incwala                                                                                            15                  9 
Subscription paid to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association
ii
                                                          14               12 
Purchases made from Xstrata
iii
                                                                                                                         1                 2 
Sales to Xstrata
iii
                                                                                                                                             15                  5 
Amounts due to Xstrata
iii
                                                                                                                                   –                  2 
Amounts due from Xstrata
iii
                                                                                                                               3                  4 
Amounts due from HDSA investors in Incwala                                                                                            351              342 
All related party transactions are priced on an arm’s length basis.
Footnotes:
i A Group company has made a series of non-interest bearing loans to Incwala Platinum (Pty) Limited (IP). IP is a substantial shareholder in the
Company’s principal operating subsidiaries, and is a subsidiary of Shanduka Group (Pty) Limited, a company controlled by Cyril Ramaphosa, a
Director of the Company. Advanced dividends in the sums of R25m, R79m, R79m and R80m were made to IP on 28 September 2009, 29 March
2010, 29 September 2010 and 30 September 2011 respectively. IP has authorised the relevant Group company to recover these amounts by
reducing future dividends that would otherwise be payable to all shareholders. 
ii The subscription paid by Lonmin is material to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association of which Lonmin is a member.
iii Xstrata Zinc BV has a 24.9% shareholding in Lonmin Plc. 
27   Capital commitments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $m                      $m
Contracted for but not yet provided                                                                                                              67              101 
28   Operating and finance leases
The full aggregate lease payments of the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are set out below:
Land and buildings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $m                      $m
Operating leases which fall due for payment:
Within one year                                                                                                                                                1                  1
Between one and five years                                                                                                                             3                  – 
Over five years                                                                                                                                                 3                  – 
                                                                                                                                                                     7                  1 
Notes to the Accounts [ 141 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
29   Net debt as defined by the Group
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Foreign 
                                                                                                                                                              As at                                       exchange                   As at
                                                                                                                                                      1 October                                and non cash    30 September
                                                                                                                                                              2010           Cash flow        movements                    2011
                                                                                                                                                                $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                              148               (74)                 2                76 
Current borrowings                                                                                           (71)               61                  –               (10)
Non-current borrowings                                                                                  (462)             154                  –             (308)
Unamortised bank fees                                                                                      10                  –                 (2)                 8 
Net debt as defined by the Group                                                                   (375)             141                  –             (234)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Foreign 
                                                                                                                                                              As at                                         exchange                    As at
                                                                                                                                                       1 October                                   and non cash      30 September
                                                                                                                                                              2009            Cash flow          movements                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                              282             (135)                 1              148 
Current borrowings                                                                                           (58)              (13)                 –               (71)
Non-current borrowings                                                                                  (349)            (113)                 –             (462)
Unamortised bank fees                                                                                      12                  –                 (2)               10 
Net debt as defined by the Group                                                                   (113)            (261)                (1)            (375)
Net debt as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest
bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees.
30   Principal Group companies
The following companies have been consolidated in the Group accounts and materially contributed to the assets and / or
results of the Group and are classified according to their main activity.
                                                                                                                           Interest in
                                                                                                                              ordinary
                                                                     Country of                                 share capital
Company                                                      incorporation                                             %                                                                                    Principal activities
Eastern Platinum Ltd                    South Africa                          82.0           Subsidiary                                  Platinum mining
Western Platinum Ltd                   South Africa                          82.0           Subsidiary               Platinum mining and refining
Messina Platinum Mines Ltd         South Africa                          82.0           Subsidiary                                  Platinum mining
Akanani Mining (Pty) Ltd               South Africa                          74.0           Subsidiary      Mineral exploration and evaluation
A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.
Notes to the Accounts [ 142 ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Note                       $m                       $m
Non-current assets
Tangible fixed assets                                                                                                                         32                  2                  2 
Investments                                                                                                                                                     1,753           1,745 
Shares in subsidiary undertakings                                                                                                     33           1,400           1,400 
Other financial assets                                                                                                                        34              353              345 
Total non-current assets                                                                                                                              1,755           1,747 
Current assets
Deferred tax                                                                                                                                      35                  1                  1 
Debtors                                                                                                                                             36              899              694 
Cash at bank and in hand                                                                                                                                     46               10 
Total current assets                                                                                                                                        946              705 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year                                                                                 37             (704)            (706)
Net current assets / (liabilities)                                                                                                                        242                 (1)
Total assets less current liabilities                                                                                                              1,997           1,746 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year                                                                  37             (301)                (7)
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                                                              (9)                 – 
Bank loans and overdrafts                                                                                                                                 (292)                (7)
Net assets                                                                                                                                                    1,696           1,739 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital                                                                                                                      38              203              202 
Share premium account                                                                                                                    38              997              997 
Capital redemption reserve                                                                                                               38                79                88 
Profit and loss account                                                                                                                     38              417              452 
Total equity shareholders’ funds                                                                                                    38           1,696           1,739 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 November 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roger Phillimore Chairman
Simon Scott Chief Financial Officer
Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet
as at 30 September [ 143 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
31   Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Lonmin Plc (the Company) balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom
generally accepted accounting practice (UK GAAP) and in accordance with UK company law. The financial information has
been prepared on a historic cost basis as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments. The accounts have been
prepared on a going concern basis, as detailed in note 1 of the Group financial statements. The following principal accounting
policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company’s
financial statements.
The Company’s functional currency is the US Dollar. The reporting currency is also the US Dollar.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in Section 408(4) of the Companies Act 2006 from presenting
its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1 – Cash Flow Statements and has not prepared a cash flow
statement.
Available for sale assets
The Company’s investment in Platmin Limited is measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity
except when the asset is impaired, then the impairment losses are taken to the income statement. Fair value is determined by
using the market price at the balance sheet date when this is available. For investments for which market price is not available
the Directors’ best estimate of market value is used.
Investment in subsidiaries
The Company’s investment in shares in Group companies are stated at cost less any provision for impairment. The principal
subsidiaries of the Company are LSA (UK) Limited and AfriOre Limited. LSA (UK) Limited holds the investments in WPL, EPL
and Messina Platinum Mines Limited. AfriOre Limited holds the investment in Akanani (Pty) Limited. For more information see
note 30 of the Group financial statements.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are recorded at cost or valuation, which are not updated under the transitional arrangements of FRS 15
– Tangible Fixed Assets, less depreciation. Depreciation on fixed assets is provided on a straight-line basis. Assets are
depreciated over their estimated useful economic lives to residual value. Depreciation rates for the principal assets of the
Company are as follows:
                                                                                     Method                                                                   Useful economic life                                                 Rate
Short term leasehold property                  Straight line                            Over the life of the lease                          3 – 5 years
Fixtures and Fittings                                  Straight line                              10% – 33% per annum                        3 – 10 years
Tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may
not be recoverable. When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net
present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant income generating unit or disposal value if higher in accordance
with FRS 11.
Financial instruments
The Company’s principal financial instruments (other than derivatives) comprise bank loans, investments, cash and short term
deposits. 
Bank loans were initially recorded at fair value, and have subsequently been recorded at amortised cost using the effective
interest rate method.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are principally used by the Company to manage exposure to market risks from treasury
operations. The principal derivative instruments used are interest rate swaps which the Company has designated as cash flow
hedges. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 
HDSA receivable and HDSA derivative
The Company is the holder of a hybrid financial instrument in Shanduka. This comprises a HDSA receivable recognised initially at
fair value, and subsequently recorded at amortised cost, and a HDSA derivative which is held at fair value excluding day one gain. 
Accounting for the financing provided by the Company for Shanduka’s acquisition of the non-controlling interests in the
Company’s principal subsidiaries is considered in notes 14 and 20g of the Group accounts.
Leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Current tax
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes account of the taxation deferred because of timing
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Notes to the Company Accounts [ 144 ]
31   Accounting policies (continued)
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is provided for on timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date on a non-
discounted basis. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable
taxable profits from which future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits
For current employees, the Company either makes payments on behalf of employees into a defined contribution scheme
which the Company has set up, or makes direct payments to employees who may then make their own arrangements.
A defined contribution scheme is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a
separate legal entity and had no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined
contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
Share-based payments
Equity settled schemes
From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares. 
Cash settled schemes
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is
recognised as an expense, with corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become
unconditionally entitled to payment. The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date. Any changes in
the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement. 
Basis of fair value
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a
Monte Carlo projection model depending on the type of the award. Market related performance conditions are reflected in the
fair value of the share. Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the
number of awards expected to vest; the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market
conditions are met.
Share options and own shares held
In accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 25 – National Insurance Contributions on Share Option Gains (UITF 25),
the Company provides in full for the employer’s national insurance liability estimated to arise on the future exercise of share
options granted.
As required under Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 38 – Accounting for ESOP Trusts (UITF 38), the cost to the Company of
own shares held is shown as a deduction from shareholders’ funds within the profit and loss account. Consideration paid or
received for the purchase or sale of the Company’s own shares in the ESOP Trust is shown separately in the reconciliation of
movements in the shareholders’ funds.
Dividend reinvestment program
Under the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan, shareholders can elect for the whole of their cash dividends to be
reinvested in Lonmin Plc shares which are purchased on their behalf in the market. All cash dividends are paid to the
Registrars who use the dividends of participants in the plan to fund these purchases. Accordingly, no new shares are issued,
dividends are paid and accounted for in the normal way, and there are no special accounting requirements for the programme.
Foreign currency
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of the Company using the exchange
rates prevailing at the dates of transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated
into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are
translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on
the retranslation of available for sale financial assets, which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
All exploration and expenses relate to pre-feasibility work and, in line with Group policy, are expensed as incurred.
Finance expenses
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees (which are capitalised and amortised over the life of
the facility), unwinding of discount on provisions, interest costs of pension scheme liabilities, and losses on hedging
instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Notes to the Company Accounts [ 145 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
32   Tangible fixed assets 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fixtures and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fittings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   $m
Cost:
At 1 October 2010                                                                                                                                                                 4
Additions                                                                                                                                                                                1
Disposals                                                                                                                                                                             (2)
At 30 September 2011                                                                                                                                                      3
Depreciation: 
At 1 October 2010                                                                                                                                                                 2
Additions                                                                                                                                                                                –
Disposals                                                                                                                                                                              (1)
At 30 September 2011                                                                                                                                                      1
Net book value:
At 30 September 2011                                                                                                                                                      2
At 1 October 2010                                                                                                                                                              2
33   Investments in subsidiary undertakings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $m
Cost:
At 1 October 2010                                                                                                                                                         1,538 
Additions                                                                                                                                                                               – 
At 30 September 2011                                                                                                                                               1,538 
Provisions:
At 1 October 2010                                                                                                                                                            138 
Increase                                                                                                                                                                             – 
At 30 September 2011                                                                                                                                                 138 
Net book value:
At 30 September 2011                                                                                                                                               1,400 
At 1 October 2010                                                                                                                                                       1,400 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   $m
Cost:
At 1 October 2009                                                                                                                                                         1,528 
Additions                                                                                                                                                                             10 
At 30 September 2010                                                                                                                                                1,538 
Provisions:
At 1 October 2009                                                                                                                                                            122 
Increase                                                                                                                                                                            16 
At 30 September 2010                                                                                                                                                   138 
Net book value:
At 30 September 2010                                                                                                                                                1,400 
At 1 October 2009                                                                                                                                                      1,406 
Notes to the Company Accounts [ 146 ]
34   Other financial assets
                                                                                                                                                       Available                  HDSA                  HDSA
                                                                                                                                                          for sale           receivable           derivative                    Total
                                                                                                                                                               $m                      $m                       $m                       $m
At 1 October 2010                                                                                               3              318                24              345 
Additions                                                                                                              –                21                  –                21 
Interest accrued                                                                                                   –                15                  –                15 
Movement in fair value                                                                                         (1)                 –               (24)              (25)
Exchange differences                                                                                           –                 (3)                 –                 (3)
At 30 September 2011                                                                                       2              351                  –              353 
                                                                                                                                                         Available                  HDSA                  HDSA 
                                                                                                                                                           for sale            receivable             derivative                     Total
                                                                                                                                                                $m                      $m                       $m                       $m
At 1 October 2009                                                                                               3                25                  –                28 
Additions                                                                                                              –              273                12              285 
Interest accrued                                                                                                   –                  9                  –                  9 
Movement in fair value                                                                                           –                  –                12                12 
Exchange differences                                                                                           –                11                  –                11 
At 30 September 2010                                                                                         3              318                24              345 
For details of the HDSA receivable, and the HDSA derivative asset, refer to notes 14 and 20g of the Group accounts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2011                   2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $m                      $m
Listed investments                                                                                                                                          2                  3 
The listed investment is in Platmin Limited which was listed on the Alternative Investment Market on 10 August 2006.
35   Deferred tax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $m                       $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                                         1                  1 
                                                                                                                                                                    1                  1 
36   Debtors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         $m                      $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary companies                                                                                                     899              693 
Prepayments and accrued income                                                                                                                  –                  1 
                                                                                                                                                                  899              694 
Notes to the Company Accounts [ 147 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
37   Creditors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2011                    2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $m                      $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts due to subsidiary companies                                                                                                       682              681 
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                                                        5                  – 
Other creditors                                                                                                                                                5                  5 
Accruals and deferred income                                                                                                                       12                20 
                                                                                                                                                                  704              706 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2011                   2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $m                       $m
Amounts falling due within 1 to 2 years:
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                                                        9                  – 
Unsecured bank loans falling due within 1 to 2 years                                                                                       –                  7 
Unsecured bank loans falling due longer than 5 years                                                                                 292                  – 
                                                                                                                                                               301                  7 
Details of the loans are shown in note 18 to the Group accounts.
38   Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
                                                                                                                          Called up                  Share 
                                                                                                                                 share             premium                   Other            Profit and                            
                                                                                                                               capital              account              reserves
i
      loss account                    Total
                                                                                                                                    $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
At 1 October 2010                                                                      202              997                88              452           1,739 
Loss for the year                                                                              –                  –                  –               (21)              (21)
Dividends paid during the year                                                        –                  –                  –               (30)              (30)
Share-based payments                                                                  –                  –                  –                 17                17 
Change in fair value of available for sale financial assets                 –                  –                  –                 (1)                (1)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of 
cash flow hedges                                                                           –                  –                 (9)                 –                 (9)
Shares issued on exercise of share options
ii
                                   1                  –                  –                  –                  1 
At 30 September 2011                                                             203              997                79              417           1,696 
                                                                                                                           Called up                   Share 
                                                                                                                                  share              premium                   Other             Profit and                            
                                                                                                                                capital               account               reserves
i
       loss account                     Total
                                                                                                                                    $m                       $m                       $m                       $m                       $m
At 1 October 2009                                                                      193              776                88              393           1,450 
Profit for the year                                                                             –                  –                  –                41                41 
Share-based payments                                                                  –                  –                  –                  5                  5 
Transfer from liability for own shares                                               –                  –                  –                15                15 
Share capital and share premium recognised 
on equity issuance                                                                           9              224                  –                  –              233 
Equity issue costs charged to share premium                                 –                 (4)                 –                  –                 (4)
Reversal of fair value movements on derivative
liability recognised on equity issuance                                             –                  –                  –                 (2)                (2)
Shares issued on exercise of share options
ii
                                    –                  1                  –                  –                  1 
At 30 September 2010                                                               202              997                88              452           1,739 
The loss of the Company for the 2011 financial year amounted to $21 million (2010 – profit of $41 million).
Further details of called up share capital and share premium can be found in note 24 to the Group accounts.
Details of shares held in the employee share ownership plan (ESOP) can be found in note 25 to the Group accounts.
Footnotes:
i Other reserves at 30 September 2011 represent the capital redemption reserve of $88 million (2010 – $88 million) and a $9 million hedging loss net
of deferred tax (30 September 2010 – $nil hedging reserve net of deferred tax). The movement in the current year represents the movement on the
hedging reserve.
ii During the year 364,924 share options were exercised (2010 – 173,936) on which $1 million of cash was received (2010 – $1 million).
Notes to the Company Accounts [ 148 ]
39   Other information
Employees
The average number of employees of the Company during the year was 20 (2010 – 40) which includes 10 employees who
work in the South African branch. Total staff costs, excluding charges for share options, were $18 million (2010 – $18 million)
which includes $9 million for employees working in the South African branch.
The staff costs are made up of wages and salaries $16 million (2010 – $11 million), social security costs $nil (2010 – $2 million),
pension payments $2 million (2010 – $1 million), and termination payments of $nil (2010 – $4 million).
Directors’ emoluments are reported in the Remuneration Committee Report. No emoluments related specifically to their work
in the Company.
Pensions
For details of the Company’s pension scheme, refer to note 5 of the Group accounts.
Related party transactions
The Company’s only related party transaction has resulted in an amount due from HDSA investors in Incwala of $351 million
(2010 – $342 million) as per note 14 of the Group accounts. The Company also has a related party relationship with its
Directors and key management as disclosed in the Remuneration Committee Report.
Dividends
Refer to note 9 of the Group accounts.
Share-based payments
For details of the Company’s share plan and share option schemes, refer to note 25 of the Group accounts.
Deferred tax asset
The Company had a deferred tax asset of $1 million (2010 – $1 million) relating to the South African branch, from which
management believes that there will be sufficient future taxable profits to justify carrying the asset.
Unrecognised tax balances
The Company had an unrecognised deferred tax asset of $69 million at 30 September 2011 based on timing differences of
$246 million (2010 – $66 million based on timing differences of $237 million). No unrecognised deferred tax assets have been
disclosed in respect of United Kingdom operations, as management believe the chances of utilising future United Kingdom
taxable profits are low. The Company had $65 million of unrecognised surplus ACT at 30 September 2011 (2010 – $65 million).
The Company had $257 million of unrecognised shadow ACT at 30 September 2011 (2010 – $252 million).
Audit fees
The audit fee in respect of the parent company was $0.2 million (2010 – $0.2 million). Further details can be found in note 4 
of the Group accounts.
Notes to the Company Accounts [ 149 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Continuing operations                                                                                                        2011                   2010                   2009                    2008                    2007
Consolidated income statement:
Revenue                                                                        $m           1,992           1,585           1,062           2,231           1,941 
Operating profit / (loss)
i
                                                  $m              307              203             (142)             764              794 
Underlying operating profit / (loss)
i
                                  $m              311              228               (93)             963              796 
Profit / (loss) before taxation                                           $m              293              240             (272)             779              705 
Underlying profit / (loss) before taxation                          $m              315              237             (111)             997              811 
Attributable profit / (loss) for the year                              $m              273              112             (285)             455              314 
Underlying attributable profit / (loss) for the year             $m              226              138             (103)             550              453 
Basic earnings / (loss) per share                                 cents           134.8             56.9          (163.7)          277.8           195.7 
Underlying earnings / (loss) per share                         cents           111.6             70.2            (59.2)          335.8           282.4 
Consolidated statement of financial position:
Non-current assets – property, plant and equipment      $m           2,567           2,199           2,036           1,893           1,673 
Non-current assets – other                                            $m           1,680           1,667           1,329           1,340           1,501 
Net current assets                                                          $m              244              504              443              501              200 
Net debt                                                                        $m             (234)            (375)            (113)            (303)            (375)
Equity shareholders’ funds                                             $m           2,930           2,709           2,356           2,086           1,907 
Equity shareholders’ funds per share                          cents           1,448           1,339           1,220           1,273           1,165 
Cost of dividend paid                                                     $m                30                  –                  –              186              171 
Dividends per share paid                                            cents             15.0                 –                  –           113.6           105.0 
Dividend in respect of the year per share                    cents             15.0             15.0                  –             56.3           109.7 
Consolidated statement of cash flows:
Cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities              $m              630                80               (16)             706              692 
Free cash inflow / (outflow)                                             $m              210             (203)            (271)             264              380 
Trading cash inflow / (outflow) per share                     cents           311.2             40.7              (9.2)          431.0           431.3 
Free cash inflow / (outflow) per share                          cents           103.7          (103.2)         (155.6)          161.2           236.8 
Footnote:
i Excludes equity accounted investments.
Consolidated Group Five Year Financial Record
for the year ended 30 September [ 150 ]
Five year review
                                                                                                                                   Units               2011               2010               2009               2008               2007
Tonnes mined          Marikana                   Karee
1
                                          kt          4,438         4,115          3,950          3,962          4,609 
                                                                    Westerns
1
                                     kt          3,434         3,694          3,912          4,343          4,931 
                                                                    Middelkraal
1
                                  kt          1,904          1,918          1,385             884             461 
                                                                    Easterns
1
                                      kt          1,174          1,082             935          1,036          1,212 
                                                                    Underground                                kt        10,949        10,809        10,182        10,226        11,212 
                                                                    Opencast                                     kt             601             329             234          1,300          1,597 
                                  Limpopo                    Underground                                kt                 –                 –               87             523             757 
                                  Pandora attributable
2
  Underground                                kt             168             166             142             124             128 
                                                                   Opencast                                     kt                 –                 –             156             275             286 
                                  Lonmin Platinum        Underground                                kt        11,117        10,975        10,411        10,875        12,096 
                                                                    Opencast                                     kt             601             329             389          1,575          1,883 
                                                                    Total                                             kt        11,718        11,304        10,801        12,449        13,979 
                                 % tonnes mined from UG2 reef                                      %            72.7            75.6            77.7            73.1            72.0 
Tonnes milled
3
          Marikana                   Underground                                kt        10,896       10,655        10,148        10,206        11,216 
                                                                    Opencast                                     kt             748             129             622          1,163          1,469 
                                  Limpopo                    Underground                                kt                 –                 –               92             534             781 
                                  Pandora
4
                   Underground                                kt             394             391             335             293             301 
                                                                    Opencast                                     kt                 –                 –             430             595             649 
                                  Ore Purchases
5
         Underground                                kt                 –                 –                 –                 –               75 
                                                                   Opencast                                     kt                 –                 –                 –               30               20 
                                  Lonmin Platinum        Underground                                kt        11,290        11,046        10,576        11,033        12,373 
                                                                    Opencast                                     kt             748             129          1,053          1,788          2,138 
                                                                  Total                                             kt        12,037        11,176        11,628        12,821        14,511 
Milled head grade
6
  Lonmin Platinum        Underground                               g/t            4.54            4.67            4.57            4.66            4.88 
                                                                    Opencast                                    g/t            2.23            2.25            3.70            3.70            4.39 
                                                                  Total                                            g/t            4.40            4.65            4.50            4.52            4.80 
Concentrator            Lonmin Platinum        Underground                                %            85.4            84.8            81.0            81.7            80.7 
recovery rate
7
                                             Opencast                                     %            81.6            63.8            65.1            59.4            55.4 
                                                                  Total                                             %            85.3            84.7            79.8            79.2            77.3 
Metals in                   Marikana                   Platinum                                      oz      694,149      668,620      612,910      660,429      778,049 
concentrate
8
                                               Palladium                                     oz      324,655      313,590      284,561      303,530      354,037 
                                                                    Gold                                            oz        17,471        14,969        14,419        17,221        21,578 
                                                                    Rhodium                                      oz        91,659        93,043        85,008        90,096      102,906 
                                                                    Ruthenium                                   oz      144,369      144,913      130,080      139,158      164,826 
                                                                    Iridium                                         oz        31,294       31,432        28,389        29,654        37,317 
                                                                    Total PGMs                                  oz   1,303,597   1,266,566   1,155,367   1,240,088   1,458,713 
                                  Limpopo                    Platinum                                      oz                 –                 –          3,770        22,017        35,567 
                                                                    Palladium                                     oz                 –                 –          3,331        16,477        24,351 
                                                                    Gold                                            oz                 –                 –             243          1,265          2,945 
                                                                    Rhodium                                      oz                 –                 –             487          2,660          3,723 
                                                                    Ruthenium                                   oz                 –                 –             688          4,128          5,769 
                                                                    Iridium                                         oz                 –                 –             159             121          1,245 
                                                                    Total PGMs                                  oz                 –                 –          8,679        46,667        73,600 
                                  Pandora                    Platinum                                      oz        25,241       25,756        46,421        48,743        52,479 
                                                                    Palladium                                     oz        11,847        12,108        20,866        21,282        24,417 
                                                                    Gold                                            oz             179             176             350             371             461 
                                                                    Rhodium                                      oz          3,865         4,036          6,425          6,334          7,439 
                                                                    Ruthenium                                   oz          6,070          6,228          9,338          9,379        10,922 
                                                                    Iridium                                         oz             996         1,041          1,767          1,762          2,415 
                                                                    Total PGMs                                  oz        48,199        49,345        85,168        87,872        98,133 
                                  Ore Purchases           Platinum                                      oz                  –                  –                 –             937          3,737 
                                                                    Palladium                                     oz                  –                  –                 –             793          1,730 
                                                                    Gold                                            oz                  –                  –                 –               74               46 
                                                                    Rhodium                                      oz                  –                  –                 –               83             533 
                                                                    Ruthenium                                   oz                  –                  –                 –             107             809 
                                                                    Iridium                                         oz                  –                  –                 –               25             180 
                                                                   Total PGMs                                  oz                  –                  –                 –          2,019          7,035 
                                  Lonmin Platinum        Platinum                                      oz      719,390      694,376      663,101      732,125      869,832 
                                                                    Palladium                                     oz      336,502     325,697      308,758      342,081      404,535 
                                                                    Gold                                            oz        17,650       15,144        15,013        18,932        25,030 
                                                                    Rhodium                                      oz        95,524        97,079        91,920        99,173      114,601 
                                                                    Ruthenium                                   oz      150,439     151,141      140,106      152,772      182,326 
                                                                    Iridium                                         oz        32,290       32,473        30,315        31,562        41,157 
                                                                    Total PGMs                                  oz   1,351,796  1,315,911   1,249,214   1,376,645   1,637,481 
                                                                    Nickel
9
                                        MT          3,537          2,972          2,794          3,549          4,636 
                                                                  Copper
9
                                      MT          2,223          1,824          1,763          2,216          2,814 
Operating Statistics [ 151 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
                                                                                                                                   Units               2011               2010               2009               2008               2007
Refined production  Lonmin refined           Platinum                                      oz      686,877     607,794      655,291      699,942      695,842 
                                  metal production       Palladium                                     oz      323,907     303,748      297,415      330,209      318,758 
                                                                    Gold                                            oz        18,013       15,284        18,277        20,257        20,485 
                                                                    Rhodium                                      oz        86,702       94,690        95,596        91,063        88,469 
                                                                    Ruthenium                                   oz      164,374     147,854      146,506      158,424      135,873 
                                                                    Iridium                                         oz        26,337       36,073        23,908        31,599        30,430 
                                                                    Total PGMs                                  oz   1,306,210  1,205,443   1,236,992   1,331,493   1,289,857 
                                  Toll refined                 Platinum                                      oz        44,396       77,571          2,025                 –        93,609 
                                  metal production       Palladium                                     oz        49,119       15,274             941                 –        43,274 
                                                                    Gold                                            oz          2,879         1,100               58                 –                 – 
                                                                    Rhodium                                      oz        14,402         5,411          1,532                 –        12,966 
                                                                    Ruthenium                                   oz        24,408         8,278          2,647                 –        20,439 
                                                                    Iridium                                         oz          5,249         1,695             513                 –          4,090 
                                                                   Total PGMs                                  oz      140,453     109,328          7,717                 –      174,378 
                                  Total refined PGMs    Platinum                                      oz      731,273      685,365      657,317      699,942      789,451 
                                                                    Palladium                                     oz      373,026      319,022      298,356      330,209      362,032 
                                                                    Gold                                            oz        20,892       16,383        18,335        20,257        20,485 
                                                                    Rhodium                                      oz      101,103     100,100        97,128        91,063      101,435 
                                                                    Ruthenium                                   oz      188,782     156,133      149,153      158,424      156,312 
                                                                    Iridium                                         oz        31,586       37,768        24,420        31,599        34,520 
                                                                    Total PGMs                                  oz   1,446,662  1,314,772   1,244,709   1,331,493   1,464,235 
                                  Base metals               Nickel
10
                                       MT          4,188          3,475          3,244          3,483          4,522 
                                                                  Copper
10
                                    MT          2,454          2,091          1,988          2,009          2,466 
Sales                         Refined metal sales   Platinum                                      oz      720,783     681,424      659,703      706,492      786,552 
                                                                    Palladium                                     oz      372,284     315,515      305,332      329,460      362,077 
                                                                    Gold                                            oz        19,417        16,289        18,910        20,151        24,449 
                                                                    Rhodium                                      oz      102,653        98,657        94,160        93,337      102,916 
                                                                    Ruthenium                                   oz      187,189      153,865      146,009      158,477      162,853 
                                                                    Iridium                                         oz        33,603       34,790        23,522        32,140        37,858 
                                                                    Total PGMs                                  oz   1,435,929  1,300,540   1,247,636   1,340,057   1,476,705 
                                  Concentrate              Platinum                                      oz                  –        24,850        23,253        20,425          7,032 
                                  and other
11
                Palladium                                     oz                  –                  –          (2,848)       11,888          3,232 
                                                                    Gold                                            oz                  –                  –               13             117             201 
                                                                    Rhodium                                      oz                  –                  –             175             889          1,008 
                                                                    Ruthenium                                   oz                  –                  –             303        26,205          1,942 
                                                                    Iridium                                         oz                  –                  –             387          1,789               64 
                                                                   Total PGMs                                  oz                  –        24,850        21,282        61,313        13,479 
                                  Lonmin Platinum        Platinum                                      oz      720,783      706,274      682,955      726,918      793,584 
                                                                    Palladium                                     oz      372,284      315,515      302,485      341,348      365,309 
                                                                    Gold                                            oz        19,417        16,289        18,922        20,268        24,650 
                                                                    Rhodium                                      oz      102,653        98,657        94,335        94,227      103,924 
                                                                    Ruthenium                                   oz      187,189      153,865      146,312      184,682      164,795 
                                                                    Iridium                                         oz        33,603        34,790        23,909        33,929        37,922 
                                                                    Total PGMs                                  oz   1,435,929   1,325,390   1,268,918   1,401,371   1,490,184 
                                                                    Nickel
10
                                       MT          4,180         3,033          3,318          3,338          5,308 
                                                                    Copper
10
                                    MT          2,448          2,169          2,045          1,978          2,474 
                                                                  Chrome
10
                                    MT      730,278      684,654      708,753      796,100      649,185 
Average prices                                           Platinum                                   $/oz          1,769          1,525          1,086          1,655          1,213 
                                                                    Palladium                                  $/oz             752             448             224             372             339 
                                                                    Gold                                         $/oz          1,405          1,153             912             867             647 
                                                                    Rhodium                                   $/oz          2,145          2,308          1,571          7,614          5,757 
                                                                    Ruthenium                                $/oz             168             173               97             340             404 
                                                                    Iridium                                      $/oz             938             520             388             414             402 
                                                                    Basket price of PGMs
12
            $/oz          1,299          1,139             786          1,529          1,196 
                                                                    Basket price of PGMs
12
            R/oz          9,109          8,375          6,873        11,543          8,533 
                                                                    Basket price of PGMs
13
            R/oz          9,716          8,790          7,316        11,983          9,298 
                                                                    Nickel
10
                                   $/MT        21,009        18,569        15,006        22,556        26,461 
                                                                    Copper
10
                                 $/MT          8,612          6,623          6,291          7,212          6,971 
                                                                  Chrome
10
                                $/MT               27                 5                 2                 1                 1 
Footnotes: 
1 During 2010 the management structure in mining was revised into four business units. Karee includes the shafts K3, 1B and 4B and will also include K4
once production commences. Westerns comprises Rowland, Newman and ore purchases from W1. Middelkraal represents Hossy and Saffy. Easterns
includes E1, E2 and E3.
2 Pandora attributable tonnes mined includes Lonmin’s share (42.5%) of the total tonnes mined on the Pandora joint venture.
3 Tonnes milled excludes slag milling.
4 Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore produced by the Pandora joint venture for onward processing which is included in downstream operating statistics.
5 Tonnes milled and derived metal in concentrate from third-party ore purchases.
6 Milled head grade is the grammes per tonne (5PGE+Au) value contained in the tonnes milled and fed into the concentrator from the mines (excluding slag milled).
7 Recovery rate in the concentrators is the total content produced divided by the total content milled (excluding slag).
8 Metals in concentrate includes slag and has been calculated using industry standard downstream processing losses.
9 Corresponds to contained base metals in concentrate.
10 Nickel is produced and sold as nickel sulphate crystals or solution and the volumes shown correspond to contained metal. Copper is produced as refined
product but typically at LME grade C. Chrome is produced in the form of chromite concentrate and volumes shown are in the form of chromite.
11 Concentrate and others sales have been adjusted to a saleable ounce basis using industry standard recovery rates. 
12 Basket price of PGMs is based on the revenue generated in Rand and Dollar from the actual PGMs (5PGE + Au) sold in the period based on the
appropriate Rand / Dollar exchange rate applicable for each sales transaction.
13 As per note 12 but including revenue from base metals.
Operating Statistics [ 152 ]
                                                                                                                                   Units               2011               2010               2009               2008               2007
Capital expenditure
1
                                                                                    Rm          2,907           1,989           2,106          2,816          1,923 
                                                                                                                   $m             410              267              234             378             276 
Cost per PGM ounce sold
2
Group:
Mining – Marikana                                                                                        R/oz           5,292           4,575          4,468          3,880          2,306 
Mining – Limpopo                                                                                         R/oz                  –                  –          7,404          6,363          4,463 
Mining (weighted average)                                                                            R/oz           5,292           4,575          4,490          3,979          2,430 
Concentrating – Marikana                                                                             R/oz              960             862             808             724             470 
Concentrating – Limpopo                                                                             R/oz                  –                  –          1,820          1,743          1,506 
Concentrating (weighted average)                                                                R/oz              960              862             815             761             526 
Process division                                                                                           R/oz              830              809             693             686             600 
Shared business services                                                                             R/oz              452              527             632             845             612 
C1 cost per PGM ounce produced                                                               R/oz           7,534           6,773          6,630          6,271          4,168 
Stock movement                                                                                          R/oz             (272)            (358)             112             (863)              28 
C1 cost per PGM ounce sold before base metal credits                               R/oz           7,262           6,415           6,742           5,408          4,196 
Base metal credits                                                                                        R/oz             (606)            (415)            (440)            (482)            (762)
C1 cost per PGM ounce sold after base metal credits                                  R/oz           6,656           6,000          6,302          4,926          3,434 
Amortisation                                                                                                 R/oz              617              571             516             420             360 
C2 cost per PGM ounce sold                                                                       R/oz           7,273           6,571          6,818          5,346          3,794 
Pandora mining cost:
C1 Pandora mining cost (in joint venture)                                                      R/oz           5,020           4,727          3,371          3,223          2,453 
Pandora JV cost / ounce to Lonmin (adjusting Lonmin share of profit)          R/oz           7,228           7,253          5,956          6,200          4,225 
Exchange rates                                          Average rate for period
3
             R/$            6.95            7.45            9.00            7.45            7.14 
                                                                                                                      £/$            0.62            0.64            0.64            0.51            0.51 
                                                                    Closing rate                               R/$            8.05            6.92            7.47            8.27            6.83 
                                                                                                                   £/$            0.64            0.64            0.62            0.56            0.50 
Footnotes: 
1 Capital expenditure is the aggregate of the purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (includes capital accruals and excludes
capitalised interest). 
2 It should be noted that with the restructuring of the business in 2011, 2010 and 2009 the cost allocation between business units has been changed 
and, therefore, whilst the total is on a like-for-like basis, individual line items are not totally comparable.
3 Exchange rates are calculated using the market average daily closing rate over the course of the period.
Operating Statistics [ 153 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Summary and High Level Reconciliation 
Notable Revisions in 2011
• Mineral Resource definition work in South Africa during the year was confined to the Marikana and Pandora properties. The
Limpopo, Akanani and Loskop Mineral Resources were unchanged during 2011.
• The Mineral Resources at Marikana reduced by 5.7 Moz (3%) of 3PGE+Au in 2011. Exploration drilling at Marikana in FY11
was focussed on infill drilling rather than Mineral Resource extension and additional data collected during the year resulted
in a 2% increase in resource thickness and a 3% decrease in the resource grade. Depletion through mining and higher
geological losses assigned to the deeper and Inferred Resource areas accounted for the remainder of the decrease in the
3PGE+Au Mineral Resource.
• The West Kenya Earn-in and Joint Venture Agreement between Aviva and AfriOre International (Barbados) Limited, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Lonmin Plc, declared a maiden Inferred Mineral Resource on the Bumbo deposit. The portion attributable
to Lonmin (49%) is 0.82 Mt at a copper equivalent grade of 4%. Details of this copper-zinc-gold-silver resource can be found
under the Non-Platinum Group Elements section of this report.
• Revisions to the Mineral Reserve at Marikana in 2011:
• The Marikana Mineral Reserve grade decreased by 3% (0.13 g/t). This was largely due to the lower resource grade.
• The 3PGE+Au content of the Marikana Mineral Reserve was 6% lower (2.5 Moz) as a result of the lower resource grade,
depletion by mining and changes to the mine design in certain areas resulting in higher pillar and mining loss.
• Other areas of Lonmin’s Mineral Reserve were largely unchanged.
A summary of the changes in the Lonmin Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves are shown in the following tables and should be
read in conjunction with the Key Assumptions section of this report. Detailed breakdowns of these Mineral Resources and Mineral
Reserves into their respective confidence categories can be found in the sections specific to the individual areas.
PGE Mineral Resources (Total Measured, Indicated & Inferred)
1,4
                                                                                                                              30-Sep-2011                                                                   30-Sep-2010
                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                   Mt
5
                       3PGE+Au                     Pt                 Mt
5
                       3PGE+Au                     Pt
Area                                                                                                                       g/t               Moz               Moz                                       g/t               Moz             Moz
Marikana                                                           731.0         4.87       114.4         68.4       740.1         5.05       120.1        71.7
Limpopo
2
                                                           144.7         4.23         19.7         10.0       144.7         4.23         19.7        10.0
Limpopo Baobab shaft                                        46.1         3.91           5.8           3.0         46.1         3.91           5.8          3.0
Akanani                                                             216.0         3.84         26.7         10.9       216.0         3.84         26.7        10.9
Pandora JV                                                         54.8         4.29           7.6           4.6         54.8         4.30           7.6          4.5
Loskop JV
3
                                                          10.1         4.04           1.3           0.8         10.1         4.04           1.3          0.8
Sudbury PGM JV
1,3
                                              0.35         6.30         0.07         0.04         0.35         6.30         0.07        0.04
Total Resource                                              1,202.9         4.54       175.4         97.6    1,212.0         4.65       181.1      100.9
Footnotes:
1) All figures are reported on a Lonmin Plc attributable basis, the relative proportions of ownership per project being shown in the Key Assumptions section
of this report.
2) Limpopo excludes Baobab shaft.
3) Loskop and Denison JV exclude Rh, due to insufficient assays, and therefore 2PGE+Au is reported.
4) Resources are reported Inclusive of Reserves.
5) Quantities and grades have been rounded to one or two decimal places, therefore minor computational errors may occur.
PGE Mineral Reserves (Total Proved & Probable)
1 
                                                                                                                              30-Sep-2011                                                                   30-Sep-2010
                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                   Mt
3
                       3PGE+Au                     Pt                 Mt
3
                       3PGE+Au                     Pt
Area                                                                                                                       g/t               Moz               Moz                                       g/t               Moz             Moz
Marikana                                                           284.8         4.09         37.4         22.6       293.9         4.22         39.9        24.1
Limpopo
2
                                                             42.4         3.20           4.4           2.2         42.4         3.20           4.4          2.2
Limpopo Baobab shaft                                          9.4         3.16           1.0           0.5           9.4         3.16           1.0          0.5
Pandora JV                                                           5.1         4.14         0.67         0.40           5.2         3.98         0.66        0.39
Total Reserve                                                   341.6         3.95         43.4         25.7       350.8         4.07         45.9        27.1
Footnotes:
1) All figures are reported on a Lonmin Plc attributable basis, the relative proportions of ownership per project being shown in the Key Assumptions section
of this report.
2) Limpopo excludes Baobab shaft.
3) Quantities have been rounded to one decimal place and grades have been rounded to two decimal places, therefore minor computational errors may occur.
Reserves and Resources [ 154 ]
Key assumptions pertaining to the 2011 Lonmin Mineral Resource and Reserve Statement
• Mineral Resources are reported inclusive of Mineral Reserves. Resources that are converted to Reserves are also included in
the Mineral Resource statement. 
• All quoted Resources and Reserves includes Lonmin’s attributable portion only. There have been no changes in the percentage
attributable to Lonmin during the year. The following percentages were applied to the total Mineral Resource and Reserve for
each property:
                                                                                                                Limpopo –      Limpopo – Baobab,                                                                                 Sudbury
                                                                                        Marikana      Dwaalkop JV      Doornvlei, Zebediela           Akanani          Pandora            Loskop               PGM
Lonmin Attributable                                        82%             41%                     82%          74%     34.85%          41%          50%
• Incwala, Lonmin’s BEE partner, owns 18% of both WPL and EPL, and 26% of Akanani.
• Limpopo includes Dwaalkop JV which is a Lonmin managed JV between Mvelaphanda Resources Limited (50%) and
Western Platinum (50%).
• Pandora JV: EPL has an attributable interest of 42.5% in the Pandora Joint Venture together with Anglo Platinum (42.5%),
Mvelaphanda Resources Limited (7.5%) and the Bapo Ba Mogale Mining Company (7.5%).
• Loskop JV: WPL has an attributable interest of 50% in the Loskop Joint Venture with Boynton Investments.
• Sudbury PGM JV – PGE grades are stated as Pt+Pd+Au (3E). Through the JV, Lonmin acquires its pro rata share, currently
a nominal 50%, of the product from any PGE deposit developed on the participating properties. The agreement is that
Lonmin will be allocated its pro-rata share in PGE’s and Vale will be allocated its pro-rata share in Nickel, Copper, Cobalt,
Gold and Silver. The exchange of metals will be governed by prevailing metal prices at the time of the refined metal
production.
• Lonmin has a 49% attributable portion of the Bumbo mineral resource in terms of The West Kenya Earn-in and Joint
Venture Agreement between Aviva Corporation Limited and AfriOre International (Barbados) Limited a wholly owned
subsidiary of Lonmin Plc.
• Where grades are reported as 3PGE+Au these are a summation of the Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium and Gold grades.
Modelling of available assay information, obtained from drillhole core, indicates that the proportion of 3PGE+Au contained in
5PGE+Au, which includes Ruthenium and Iridium, is approximately as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                              UG2        Merensky           Platreef
Marikana                                                                                                                                              0.81           0.92                –
Limpopo                                                                                                                                              0.86           0.93                –
Akanani                                                                                                                                                     –                –           0.95
Pandora                                                                                                                                               0.81                –                –
• Where Nickel (Ni) and Copper (Cu) grade estimates are derived from sufficient reliable information for the various Mineral
Resources, they are reported as average grades in percent. These grades represent acid soluble proportions. Acid soluble
percentages of Ni and Cu are closely correlated to the metals present as sulphide minerals.
• Mineral Resources are reported as “in-situ” tonnes and grade and allow for geological losses such as faults, dykes, potholes
and Iron Rich Ultramafic Pegmatite (IRUP).
• Mineral Resources are estimated using a minimum true width of at least 90 cm and therefore may include some diluting
material.
• Proved and Probable Mineral Reserves are reported as tonnes and grade expected to be delivered to the mill, are inclusive of
diluting materials and allow for losses that may occur when the material is mined.
• Mine tailings dams are excluded from the above Mineral Resource summary. Lonmin is currently evaluating the viability of a
retreatment project in respect of its tailings dams and currently intends to exploit these tailings at a future date.
• For economic studies and the determination of pay limits, consideration was made of both short and long term revenue
drivers. The following long term global assumptions were used: 
• Precious Metals (per Troy Ounce): Pt USD1,900, Pd USD850, Rh USD2,500, Ru USD200, Ir USD600, Au USD1,500.
• Base Metals (per metric tonne): Ni USD20,000, Cu USD7,000.
• Average exchange rate of US$1 to ZAR8.0.
• Dilutions are quoted as waste tonnes / waste + ore tonnes in percent.
• Bumbo Mineral Resources are reported using a cut off grade of 0.7% copper equivalent.
• The copper equivalent formula for Bumbo was based upon commodity prices at the close of the market on 25th July 2011,
namely:
• Copper: USD9633/tonne ($Cu)
• Zinc: USD2441/tonne ($Zn)
• Gold: USD1614/ounce ($Au)
• Silver: USD40/ounce ($Ag)
• The copper equivalent (CuEq) is as follows:
CuEq (%) = Cu% + (Zn%*($Zn/100)/($Cu/100)) + (Au g/t*($Au/31.1034768)/($Cu/100)) +(Ag g/t*($Ag/31.1034768)/($Cu/100))
• Unless otherwise stated, the Lonmin Mineral Resources and Reserves estimates were prepared or supervised by various
persons employed by Lonmin.
Reserves and Resources [ 155 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Lonmin’s shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg
stock exchanges and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are
also traded in an OTC market in the USA.
UK share register information
All holdings of the Company’s shares are maintained on the
Company’s UK share register, with the exception of those 
held on the South African branch register. The register is
administered by Equiniti Registrars (formerly known as Lloyds
TSB Registrars).
You can access information about your shareholding including
balance movements and dividend payments on Shareview, an
electronic communications service provided by Equiniti. It also
allows you to change your registered address details, set up a
dividend mandate, vote at general meetings and register to
receive Company communications electronically.
To register for this free service, visit www.shareview.co.uk and
follow the simple instructions. You will need your shareholder
reference number, which can be found on your share
certificate, dividend tax voucher or proxy card.
South African branch register information
The South African branch register is administered by Link
Market Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd.
Contact details for both the UK and South African registrars
can be found in Corporate Information on page 157. 
Dividends
The Company declares dividends in US Dollars. Subject 
to shareholder approval, the final dividend of 15 US cents per 
share for the year ended 30 September 2011 will be paid on 
3 February 2012 to shareholders on the registers at the close
of business on 13 January 2012. The dividend will be paid in
Sterling to UK shareholders (unless they elect to receive their
dividend in US Dollars) and in Rand to shareholders on the SA
branch register. The Sterling equivalent of the dividend will be
announced after the Company has finalised the conversion
rate. The Rand equivalent of the dividend will be based on 
the mid market US Dollar to Rand exchange rate at noon on 
29 December 2011. The dividend will be paid in US Dollars to
all other overseas shareholders (unless they elect to receive
Sterling dividends or have mandated their dividend payments
to a UK bank or participate in TAPS). Elections to receive an
alternative currency (US Dollars or Sterling) should comprise a
signed request to Equiniti at the address shown on page 157
to be received by 5 p.m. on 13 January 2012. No transfers will 
be permitted between the UK principal register and the SA
branch register from the date on which the Rand dividend is
announced until the record date, both dates inclusive (i.e., the
last date on which transfers between registers will be permitted
is 6 January 2012).
Dividend payment to your bank account
The Company can pay UK registered shareholders’ dividends
direct to their bank or building society account. This means
that dividends will normally be in shareholders’ accounts on the
same day as the payment is made and tax vouchers will be
posted the shareholders’ registered addresses. Shareholders
wishing to adopt this method of payment should log on to
www.shareview.co.uk or contact the registrars. Contact details
can be found in Corporate Information on page 157.
Transcontinental Automated Payment System (TAPS)
TAPS permits shareholders resident in certain countries to
receive dividend payments to their local bank and in their local
currency. All eligible shareholders have been or will be sent
information on TAPS by Equiniti.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) is available through 
which eligible shareholders may invest the whole of their cash
dividends in additional Lonmin Plc shares. Eligible shareholders
on the registers on the record date for the recommended final
dividend, 13 January 2012, may participate in the plan in
respect of that dividend, provided their application forms are
received by 13 January 2012 in the case of shareholders on
the UK register and by 20 January 2012 for shareholders on
the South African branch register. Copies of the DRIP brochure
and application form have been sent to eligible shareholders 
on the registers up to 1 December 2010 and are being sent 
to those entered on the registers between this date and 
29 November 2011. Further copies are available from the
registrars or can be downloaded from the registrars’ website.
UK SA
USD/Rand exchange rate 29 December 2011
Last day to trade 
cum div 10 January 2012 6 January 2012
Last day to trade 
on the JSE 6 January 2012
Ex div date 11 January 2012 9 January 2012
Record date 13 January 2012 13 January 2012
USD/sterling 
exchange rate To be advised
Deadline for receipt 
of DRIP applications 13 January 2012 20 January 2012
Dividend payment 
date 3 February 2012 3 February 2012
American Depository Receipts (ADRs)
The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for
which The Bank of New York Mellon acts as the depository.
Each ADR represents one ordinary share of the Company. 
The ADRs trade in the OTC market under the symbol LOMNY.
When dividends are paid to shareholders, the depository
makes the equivalent payment in US Dollars to ADR holders.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on 
page 157.
Shareholder Information [ 156 ]
Further information for UK-domiciled shareholders 
Capital Gains Tax
For Capital Gains Tax purposes, shareholders disposing of
shares in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May
1998, who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the
base cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two
companies. Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998
of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would
be 80.498% for Lonmin Plc and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
The Company’s capital reduction was completed on 
22 February 2002. For the purposes of assessing any liability 
to capital gains tax, UK shareholders should apportion 13.33%
of the base cost of their original shareholding to the capital
reduction and the balance to their new holding of ordinary
shares of $1 each.
The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March 1982
was 38.9 pence (as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation
issues), 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the
Company’s shares on 24 April 1998, 125.3 pence as adjusted
for the de-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998 and
266.1 pence as adjusted for shareholders who took up their full
entitlement of ordinary shares in the Rights Issue in June 2009.
Shareholders who did not take up their full entitlement in the
Rights Issue but who instead sold some or all of their rights
may be required to adjust their base cost in their Lonmin Plc
ordinary shares and should seek independent tax advice as to
their liability for capital gains tax in the event they sell their
Lonmin Plc ordinary shares.
Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Account (ISAs)
Investec Wealth & Investment Limited offers the Lonmin
Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA for investment in Lonmin Plc
shares.
UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin
Corporate ISA up to a maximum of £10,680 for the current tax
year 2011/12 and up to a maximum of £11,280 during the
forthcoming tax year 2012/13 in cash to purchase Lonmin Plc
shares or by direct transfer of eligible employee shares within
90 days of the release from an eligible Sharesave Scheme up
to a maximum value of £10,680 for the current tax year
2011/12 and up to a maximum of £11,280 during the
forthcoming tax year 2012/13.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on 
page 157. Investec Wealth & Investment Limited is regulated
by the FSA. This is not a recommendation that shareholders
should subscribe to the ISA. The advantages of holding shares
in an ISA vary according to individual circumstances and
shareholders who are in any doubt should consult their
financial adviser.
ShareGift
Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity
share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh
Foundation (registered charity number 1052686). Those
shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the
value of which make them uneconomic to sell, can donate 
the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the
proceeds to a wide range of charities. Further information
about ShareGift can be obtained from their website at
www.ShareGift.org and a ShareGift transfer form can be
downloaded from the Company’s website.
Warning to shareholders
A survey by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) has
reported that an increasing number of shareholders of
UK listed companies are being targeted by individuals
purporting to be legitimate brokers or financial advisors.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any
unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or
offers of free reports on the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
• Make sure you get the correct name of the person
and organisation and make a record of any other
information they give you, e.g. telephone number,
address, etc.
• Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA
before getting involved. You can check at
www.fsa.gov.uk/register.
• The FSA also maintains on its website a list of
unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or
have targeted, UK investors and any approach
from such organisations should be reported to the
FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any
other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with any unauthorised firm, you would
not be eligible to receive payment under the
Financial Services Compensation Scheme. The
FSA can, preferably, be contacted by completing
an on-line form at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/
regulated/law/alerts/overseas.shtml or, if you do not
have access to the internet, on 0845 606 1234.
• Inform the registrars on the relevant telephone
numbers listed on the following page. They are not
able to investigate such incidents themselves but
will record the details and pass them on to the FSA.
Shareholder Information [ 157 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Lonmin Plc
Registered in England and Wales
Company number 103002
Registered Office
Lonmin Plc
4 Grosvenor Place
London
SW1X 7YL
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7201 6000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7201 6100
E-mail: contact@lonmin.com
Website: www.lonmin.com
Operational Headquarters
Physical address:
34 Melrose Boulevard
1st Floor
Building 13
Melrose North 
Melrose Arch
2196
South Africa
Postal address:
PO Box 98811
Sloane Park
2152
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)11 218 8300
Fax: +27 (0)11 218 8310
E-mail: contact@lonmin.com
Website: www.lonmin.com
Company Secretary
Rob Bellhouse BSc FCIS
Head of Investor Relations
Tanya Chikanza
External Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7311 1000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7311 6436
Stockbrokers
United Kingdom:
J.P . Morgan Cazenove Limited
10 Aldermanbury
London
EC2V 7RF
Tel: +44 (0)20 7742 4000
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5LB
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7986 4000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7986 2266
South Africa:
JPMorgan Equities Limited
1 Fricker Road
Illovo
Johannesburg 2196
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)11 507 0430
Fax: +27 (0)11 507 0503
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
UK Callers:
Tel: +44 (0)871 384 2052
Fax: +44 (0)871 384 2100
International Callers:
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 0230
Fax: +44 (0)1903 698403
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
Link Market Services South Africa 
(Pty) Ltd
Physical address:
13th Floor
Rennie House
19 Ameshoff Street
2001 Braamfontein 
South Africa
Postal address:
PO Box 4844
Johannesburg 2000
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)11 713 0800
Fax: +27 (0)866 742450
Website: www.linkmarketservices.co.za
ADR Depository
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
PO Box 358516
Pittsburgh
PA 15252-8516
US Callers: 
Tel: +1 877 353 1154 (toll free)
International Callers: 
Tel: +1 201 680 6825
E-mail: shrrelations@bnymellon.com
ISA Provider
Investec Wealth & Investment Limited
Corporate ISA Department
The Plaza
100 Old Hall Street
Liverpool
L3 9AB
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)151 237 2160
Fax: +44 (0)151 227 1730
Corporate Information 26 January 2012           AGM and Q1 Production Report
14 May 2012                 Interim Results including Q2 Production Report
26 July 2012                 Q3 Production Report
12 November 2012       Final Results including Q4 Production Report
Please note that the Production Report for Q1 and Q3 incorporate the Company’s Interim Management 
Statements for the respective half year.
Financial Calendar for 2012
[ 158 ] [ 159 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
ABET Adult Basic Education and Training
ACT Advanced Corporation Tax
ADRs American Depository Receipts
AEL Atmospheric Emissions Licence
Ag Silver
AGM Annual General Meeting
APB’s Auditing Practices Board’s
ART Anti-retroviral treatment
ASAP Annual Shareholder Award Plan
Au Gold
BEE Black Economic Empowerment
BMR Base metal refinery
BSC Balanced Scorecard
CEO Chief Executive Officer
CFO Chief Financial Officer
CGUs Cash generating units
CO
2
Carbon dioxide
CO
2
-e Carbon dioxide equivalent
CODM Chief Operating decision maker
CPI Consumer Price Index
Cu Copper
CuEq Copper equivalent
DABP Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
DABP MA Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Matched Awards
DG Director General
DMR Department of Mineral Resources
DPs Development Plans
DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan
EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxation
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and
Amortisation
EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
EMPRs Environmental Management Programme
Reports
EPL Eastern Platinum Limited
ESOS Executive Share Option Schemes
ETFs Exchange Traded Funds
EU European Union
EVP Executive Vice President
Exco Executive Committee
FRC Financial Reporting Council
FSA Financial Services Authority
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GHG Greenhouse gases
GJ Gigajoules
GLC Greater Lonmin Community
GRI Global Reporting Initiative
HDSAs Historically Disadvantaged South Africans
HIV/AIDS Human immuno-deficiency virus/acquired
immune deficiency syndrome
HRD Human Resources Development
ICAM Incident Cause Analysis Methodology
ICMM International Council on Mining and Metals
IDPs Individual Development Plans
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards
Incwala Incwala Resources (Pty) Limited
IP Incwala Platinum (Pty) Limited
Ir Iridium
IRUP Iron Rich Ultramafic Pegmatite
ISA Individual Savings Account
ISO International Standards Organisation
JV Joint Venture
Koz Thousand ounces
KPIs Key Performance Indicators
Kt Thousand tonnes
LA Limited Assurance
LBITDA Loss Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and
Amortisation
LEMT Lonmin Employee Masakhane Trust
LOBP Life of Business Plan
LTI Lost time injury
LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan
M
3
Cubic metres
Moz Million ounces
MPML Messina Platinum Mines Ltd
MPRDA Minerals and Petroleum Resources
Development Act 28 of 2002
MWh Megawatts per hour
N.A Not Applicable
N.D.A No Data Available
NED Non-executive Director
NEMAQA National Environmental Management Air
Quality Act 39 of 2004
Ni Nickel
NIHL Noise-induced hearing loss
OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Standard
OTC Over-the-counter
Oz Ounce
Pd Palladium
PGE Platinum Group Elements
PGMs Platinum Group Metals
PMR Precious metal refinery
Pt Platinum
RA Reasonable Assurance
Rh Rhodium
RTSR Relative Total Shareholder Return
SAMREC South African code for the Reporting of
Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and
Mineral Reserves
SAYE Save as you earn
SDR Sustainable Development Report
Shanduka Shanduka Group (Proprietary) Limited
Sharesave Savings-Related Share Options Scheme
SID Senior Independent Director
SLP Social Labour Plan
SO
2
Sulphur dioxide
S&P Stay & Prosper Plan
TAPS Transactional Automated Payment System
TB Tuberculosis
TCTC Total Cost to Company
TJ Terajoules
TSP Total suspended particles
t/d Tonnes per day 
UK United Kingdom
UNGC United Nations Global Compact
VCT Voluntary counselling and testing
WiM Women in Mining
WPL Western Platinum Limited
Zn Zinc
$ Dollar
£ Great British Pound
Acronyms and Abbreviations [ 160 ]
The paper used in this report is produced using virgin wood fibre from well managed forests in Brazil,
Sweden and Germany with FSC
®
certification. All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) and
manufactured at a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 and EMAS certificates for environmental
management. The use of the FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed
forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Fulmar Colour is FSC certified, PEFC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is committed 
to all round excellence and improving environmental performance is an important part of this strategy. 
We aim to reduce at source the effect our operations have on the environment, and are committed 
to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry
standards.
Fulmar Colour is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Photography by Kevin Rudham
www.krphotography.co.za
Printed by Fulmar Colour
Designed and produced by MAGEE
www.magee.co.uk Lonmin Charter
Our Mission
To grow and build our
portfolio of high quality assets.
To deliver the requirements
of the South African broad-
based socio-economic Mining
Charter and we welcome the
opportunity to transform our
business.
To build a value-based
culture, which is founded
on safe work, continuous
improvement, common
standards and procedures,
community involvement and
one that rewards employees
for high performance.
We are successful
when
Our employees live and work
safely and experience the
personal satisfaction that
comes with high performance
and recognition.
Our shareholders are realising
a superior total return on their
investment and support our
corporate sustainability values.
The communities in which we
operate value our relationships.
We are meeting our
commitments to all business
partners and our suppliers,
contractors, partners and
customers support our
Charter.
Our Values
Zero Harm
We are committed to zero
harm to people and the
environment.
Integrity, Honesty & Trust
We are committed ethical
people who do what we say
we will do.
Transparency
Open, honest communication
and free sharing of information.
Respect For Each Other
Embracing our diversity
enriched by openness,
sharing, trust, teamwork
and involvement.
High Performance
Stretching our individual and
team capabilities to achieve
innovative and superior
outcomes.
Employee Self-Worth
To enhance the quality of life
for our employees and their
families and promote self
esteem.
We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals. We create value by
the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals.
We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct
business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
May 2009
Ian Farmer
Chief Executive Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2011
www.lonmin.com
Lonmin Plc
Registered in England, Company Number 103002
Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
Annual Report and Accounts
For the year ended 30 September 2011
Lonmin Plc
Building for the
Future
