 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2012
www.lonmin.com
Lonmin Plc
Registered in England, Company Number 103002
Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
Annual Report and Accounts
For the year ended 30 September 2012
Lonmin Plc
2012 Listed on the London Stock Exchange and the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange, Lonmin is one of
the world’s largest primary producers of Platinum
Group Metals (PGMs). The Company is engaged
in the discovery, extraction, refining and marketing
of PGMs and we create value for our shareholders
through our vertically integrated business model,
as one of only four “mine-to-market” primary PGM
producers.
Our revenue-generating operations are located in the Bushveld Complex in the North West
Province of South Africa, where nearly 80% of global PGM resources are found. The core mining
operations (comprising 11 shafts, one of which, K4, was placed on care and maintenance in
September 2012) are located at Marikana on the Western Limb of the Bushveld Complex. We
have a joint venture over an adjoining property known as Pandora, where we act as the operator
of mining activities, and we own a further PGM mine in South Africa’s Limpopo Province, which
was placed on care and maintenance in March 2009. 
Lonmin’s mining operations extract ore from which our Process Division produces refined PGMs
for delivery to customers. These metals are essential for many industrial applications, particularly
catalytic converters for internal combustion engine emissions, as well as their widespread use in
jewellery. Underpinning the operations is the Shared Services unit providing high quality levels of
support and infrastructure across the operations.
Our mining licence for core operations runs to 2037 and is renewable to 2067. We have
resources of 175.2 million troy ounces of PGMs and 41.3 million ounces of reserves.
We have approximately 28,000 full-time employees and utilise around 10,000 contractors. Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 01] Contents
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
 02  Events at Marikana
 04  Performance Highlights
 06  Chairman’s Letter
 09  Chief Executive Officer’s Review
01 / Lonmin Explained
 16  Our Business Model
 18  Strategic Overview
 22  Market Review
 24  2012 Key Performance Indicators
 26  Transformation and Sustainability Overview
 30  Year at a glance
02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review
 32  Operational Review
 39  Financial Review
 45  Internal Controls and Risk Management
 49  Sustainability Review
03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
 58  Board of Directors
 60  Executive Committee
 61  Governance
 81  Remuneration Committee Report
04 / Financial Statements
102  Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc
103  Responsibility Statement of the Directors in Respect of the Annual Report and Accounts
104  Consolidated Income Statement
104  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
105  Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
106  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
107  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
108  Notes to the Accounts
144  Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet
145  Notes to the Company Accounts
05 / Shareholder Information
152  Consolidated Group Five Year Financial Record
153  Operating Statistics – 5 Year Review
157  Reserves & Resources
160  Shareholder Information
162  Corporate Information
164  Financial Calendar
163  Acronyms and Abbreviations
 ibc  Lonmin Charter
Lonmin [ 02] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Events at Marikana
Events at Marikana in
August and September 2012
There is no way to begin our Annual Report this year without addressing the
terrible events which took place at Marikana in August and September.
The scenes which unfolded shocked and horrified all who witnessed them.
They placed this Company in the global spotlight and, crucially, they left the
nation of South Africa seeking answers to some of the most difficult
questions it has faced in a generation.
Mining is a dangerous business. We are proud of our record of being the
safest primary platinum mining company in the world, but all of us who have
been involved in this industry for years know the pain of losing colleagues
underground. Nothing, though, could have prepared the Lonmin family for
the loss of so many colleagues during the events which took place. Like the
whole nation around us, it will take a long time for us to come to terms with
the tragedy that unfolded and for normality to return. We have begun that
journey, but it will be long and difficult.
In compiling our Annual Report this year we faced a challenge in that the
Events at Marikana are so relevant to so much of our business that they
could be mentioned in most sections of the report. An Annual Report,
however, is, by definition, a complex and technical publication, containing
a huge amount of information to help inform its shareholders.
For that reason we felt that we should address Marikana immediately. Much
has been written by others about those weeks, some of it moving, some
insightful but, sadly, much that is wholly inaccurate. In reporting this year,
we felt it was important to deal with that.
Of course, the issues around Marikana are the subject of an ongoing judicial
inquiry in South Africa. It is for Judge Farlam and his team, whom we
support fully and completely, to establish causes and examine effects, and
we do not intend to do that here. It would be entirely wrong to do so.
However some facts, sadly, are not in dispute in that before 16 August eight
employees, including two security guards, as well as two policemen were
killed whilst on 16 August 34 people were killed and many more injured.
Speaking a few days later at a Memorial Service for those who died, we both
tried to find the right words to express our deep sorrow, shock and regret at
what had happened. We tried, also, to speak of hope, and healing. Even
now, many weeks later, there are no words adequate to reflect the events of
that day; but, our heartfelt sympathy for the families and friends who have
lost loved ones remains undiminished.
Lonmin with its Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) partner, Shanduka
Group (Proprietary) Limited, established the Sixteen-Eight Memorial Fund in
the wake of the shootings, committing to fund the education of the children
of those who died to adulthood, and providing care to the injured. The fund
is to be independently run, and open for public donations or donations from
other organisations or companies (a number of which have already, both
publicly and anonymously, contributed generously). Details can be found
on page 164 in this report.
In the wake of the shootings sporadic violence continued, combined with a
focused campaign of threats and intimidation to prevent the vast majority of
our workforce of 28,000 (and another 10,000 contractors) from reporting for
work. We worked hard with the South African Police Services to try to
address this, not least because the vast majority of our workforce wanted
to return to work, but the very geography of Marikana made this difficult. 
⁄ Opening words
from Roger
Phillimore and
Simon Scott. Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 03] Events at Marikana
It is important to remember also that we found
ourselves at the centre of nothing less than a national
crisis for South Africa. Certainly we faced huge
pressure to find a way to resolve the situation in order
that we could start mining again and protect the
safety and jobs of tens of thousands who had not
been involved, but also to give the nation an opportunity
to begin to address the difficult issues it faced.
Both Board and Management were convinced that a
resolution which could deliver a sustainable peace
was essential. 
We worked tirelessly with government, religious and
traditional leaders, unions and other workers’
representatives, under the guidance of the Commission
for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA),
to bring about a Peace Accord. We thank all these
parties for their involvement and for the significant role
each and every one of them played. That document,
which committed all parties to peaceful negotiation,
was signed on September 6. One union chose not to
sign, but in the interests of peace we and the other
signatory parties reached out to them to join the wage
negotiations which followed.
The discussions which followed the signing of the
Peace Accord resulted in an agreement, again
facilitated by the CCMA and signed by all the trade
unions party to our existing wage agreement, to add
an addendum to our existing wage agreement which
gave pay rises of between 11% and 22% to most
workers (not including management). Many have failed
to report that this included rises of 9% to 10% already
due. Subsequently we saw an immediate return to
work, and the resumption of operations. We refer to
this tragic series of events as “Events at Marikana” in
the rest of the Annual Report.
We believe we did the right thing both for this
Company and for South Africa in helping bring the
dispute and associated violence to an end. It was
easy to blame Lonmin, as some have done, for the
spread of unrest in the weeks after our agreement.
We reject this accusation. Unrest in the mining sector
predated the Marikana dispute, and was growing
elsewhere during it.
Deep-rooted issues of poverty and inequality have
been highlighted by what has taken place, but those
go beyond mining and to every corner of South Africa.
It is certainly true that mining companies have faced
criticism for their efforts to support the transformation
agenda in the country and, on Lonmin’s behalf, we
accept that we must do more, particularly around the
nationally difficult issue of housing. However we are
rightly proud of the huge amount we have achieved in
education, health, infrastructure and other areas, both
for our employees and the wider community – work
which has not had the recognition the dedicated
teams who deliver it deserve.
Nonetheless, no company, however large, can alone
address the socio-economic issues facing the
Republic. Only by working in partnership with central
and local government to build a sustainable and
profitable mining sector can we make the investments
needed to create and sustain the jobs and careers
which will help solve some of these problems.
We are committed to being a good corporate citizen
of South Africa, to meeting the challenges set us
around BEE and Transformation and, more than this,
to being a force for good in a country in which mining
is a vital part of economic wellbeing.
In doing all this, however, we must never lose sight of
the most important thing, which must be to help
ensure that such terrible events never happen again.
South Africa is a country which has been through
more than most, and come through all challenges to
become a better place. It is a beautiful nation, blessed
with many resources and home to a vibrant and
determined people. It deserves to reap the benefits of
all of this. What happened at Marikana was a tragedy
for the families and friends of those who died, and for
those who still bear the physical and mental injuries of
those events; but it was also a warning to all of South
Africa. Together, we must heed that warning.
Roger Phillimore                         Simon Scott
Chairman                                     Acting Chief Executive Officer
“Nothing could have prepared the Lonmin family
for the loss of so many colleagues during the
events which took place.” Financial Highlights
Platinum Sales
[ 04] Performance Highlights
How we performed
in 2012:
• The Tragic Events at Marikana significantly impacted our operational and
financial results
– 110,000 ounces of mined Platinum lost
• Safety – unacceptably two fatalities, but an overall 11.7% improvement
in LTIFR to 4.16 per million hours worked
• Metal in concentrate production of 679,821 ounces of Platinum and
1,259,585 PGMs ounces
• Platinum sales of 701,831 ounces, PGMs sales of 1,383,945 ounces
• Revenue of $1,614 billion
• Underlying EBIT of $67 million
• Underlying Earnings Per Share of 7.4 US cents down 93.4%
• Net debt increased by 79.9% to $421 million
• Available ore reserve up 13.5% to 3.3 million square metres
• Improvements in grades and concentrator recoveries
• Number Two furnace commissioned on schedule and Number One Furnace
successfully modified and operating well
⁄ Reviewed growth strategy,
future production profile and
capital investment programme
as a result of continued
lacklustre short-term demand
of PGMs and the weak pricing
environment.
620
635
650
665
680
695
710
725
740
08 09 10
Financial year
Ounces (000’s)
11 12
727
683
706
721
702
Underlying EBIT
1
-200
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
08 09 10
Financial year
US$m
11 12
963
(93)
228
311
67
Non-Financial Highlights
Ore Reserves
2
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
08 09 10
Financial year
Centares (000,000’s)
11 12
1.7
2.0
2.7
2.9
3.3
LTIFR
3
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
08 09 10
Financial year
Per million hours worked
11 12
6.27 6.21
5.87
4.71
4.16
1 Underlying EBIT is calculated on profit for
the period excluding special items, as
noted on page 121 of this Report.
2 In 2009 we changed our reporting
methodology for ore reserve development,
in line with industry best practice, to
exclude partially developed ore reserves.
We have reported on this basis since then.
3 Lost time injury frequency rate, as measured
per million hours worked, is a key safety
performance indicator. Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 05] Performance Highlights
Key management actions
taken in 2012:
• Reviewed our safety culture and policies following
two fatalities – improvement initiatives in place
• Reviewed growth strategy, future production profile
and capital investment programme as a result of
continued lacklustre short-term demand of PGMs
and the weak pricing environment
• Managed structural unit cost inflation and arrested
the decreasing productivity through a number of
integrated initiatives such as our “Line of Sight”
management system that tracks and rewards
productivity
• Reached resolution on Keysha: new order mining
rights over Middelkraal are supplemented by the
addition of the right to mine and dispose of
associated minerals and metals over the previously
contested area
• Managed impact of the Events at Marikana
– Reached an agreement through an all-inclusive
negotiation process (an addendum to the existing
2012/2013 wage agreement) with striking
employees, facilitated by the CCMA
– Safety momentum in operations restored following
the events of Marikana
– Production ramp up going better than planned
– Establishing Sixteen-Eight Memorial Fund to fund
the education for children of the deceased
• Advanced interventions to reduce the cost base and
moderate near term capital expenditure, whilst raising
additional equity, in conjunction with agreements on
amended banking facilities
• Maintain our focus on safety initiatives as we
continue our journey to zero harm
• Achieve the delivery of our transformation and
sustainability targets
• Focus on employee engagement and living our
values
– Safe return to targeted productivity run
rate levels
– Build on momentum to further improve
productivity
• Deliver production of 680,000 Platinum ounces as
saleable metal in concentrate at Marikana for the
year ending 30 September 2013
• Platinum sales of around 660,000 ounces
• Capital expenditure of $175 million for 2013
financial year
• Implement measures in financial year 2013 to
address pressures of gross cost increases and
effectiveness of Company expenditure. These
measures include:
– A review of the operating model expected
to yield savings in access of ZAR200 million
per annum
– Procurement initiative known as “Total Cost of
Ownership” being implemented and expected
to yield savings of ZAR100 million in the latter
half of financial year 2013 and subsequent
years thereafter; and
– Advance our productivity enhancement
programmes, “Line of Sight” and “Mission
Directed Work Teams”
• Participate fully in the Farlam Judicial Commission
of Inquiry
Key focus areas in 2013
and beyond: [ 06] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s Letter
“We have taken definitive steps to secure
our financial future.”
Looking ahead with
renewed confidence
A Chairman’s Letter from Roger Phillimore
Dear Fellow Shareholder,
This has been a year where issues of business and commerce have been
overshadowed by tragic loss of life, violence, unrest and fear. Events at Marikana
and elsewhere mark a watershed for post-Apartheid South Africa, and leave
everyone involved in the country asking questions and seeking answers.
What is clear, though, is that if South Africa is to deal with the historic issues of
poverty and dissatisfaction which underpin much of the unrest we have witnessed,
it will require a growing and effective private sector to provide the jobs so
desperately needed. It is business which will help to deliver much of the growth
which, in turn, will help to provide the economic, educational and social platforms
for change. Given the country’s extensive natural resources, mining will be a key
part of that.
The future of your Company, like our peers, is intrinsically linked with the future of
South Africa. The Government of the Republic recognises the importance of this link.
Whilst there are those who attack the mining industry as being to blame for many of
South Africa’s ills, and demand it does ever more to address them, I am confident
that the government realises that loading more and more costs on to the sector
during difficult times can only lead, in the long run, to serious damage to the nation’s
economy.
Certainly miners have a role to play, and perhaps greater responsibility than others
given the labour-intensive nature of our businesses. Your Company accepts that
challenge, and that responsibility, but we must also be clear that the change all of
us who love South Africa wish to see cannot be delivered by businesses alone. We
are a crucial component, but only by working in partnership with government and
other stakeholders can transformation be delivered. To play our part morally and
legally, we must be financially and commercially healthy. We are a business; without
being successful at what we do we can do nothing to help South Africa.
What is clear from the terrible events of August and September is that, for both
government and the mining industry, the reality of what happened has bred a new
determination to work in partnership for the betterment of South Africa, and to do
all we can to ensure such awful scenes never take place again.
Financial Issues Post Year End
Since the year end there have been a number of significant financial events affecting
your Company, the full details of which are contained in a number of relevant
documents you will, I hope, have seen by the time this Annual Report is published.
Chief amongst these was our announcement on October 30 that we intended to
raise approximately US$800 million in a Rights Issue, the Prospectus for which was
published on 9 November 2012.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 07] Chairman’s Letter
This was designed with one thing in mind: to help
our shareholders maximise returns in the long-term
from this Company’s excellent assets, operational
turnaround and position in the market when it improves.
The fact that this Rights Issue is fully underwritten is
a real vote of confidence in our business, as well as
in South Africa’s ability to deal with its short-term
problems and move forwards.
The Rights Issue is vital, so as not to lose the benefits
of your Company’s fundamental strengths:
• Operations located in the world’s premier PGM
deposit
• Long life mineral resource base backed by long-
term New Order Mining Rights
• Significant inherent value in existing infrastructure
and mineral reserves
• Attractive long-term fundamentals for PGM
markets, despite short-term volatility
• Maximisation of value through vertical integration
• Operational gearing
• Industry leading expertise in processing UG2 ore
The Rights Issue should also be viewed against the
background of our clear strategic focus on future
plans for our outstanding asset at Marikana.
Markets, Operations and Costs
Platinum miners were hit hard by a combination of
lower prices and rising costs, and instability in the
latter part of the year.
Much of this year saw a continuation of the global
economic instability with issues in Europe in particular
heavily impacting sentiment across global markets.
The Events at Marikana, and subsequent strike action
at almost all other South African PGM producers
have, given the importance of South African
producers to global PGM production, in a short space
of time altered the outlook for the supply side of the
PGM industry. These events have increased operating
costs for Lonmin and other companies in the South
African PGM mining industry, while at the same time
creating supply constraints which have contributed to
an increase in PGM prices. Your Board believes that
the disruption to the South African PGM mining
industry is also likely to result in some capacity
reductions in the near term as higher cost operations
are forced to reduce output or close down, and / or in
the longer term as reduced capital expenditure plans
today defer the production of replacement or growth
ounces in the future. Your Board believes that these
factors should sustain improved pricing for PGMs.
Over the longer term, your Board also believes that
improved PGM pricing should be supported by
underlying positive demand dynamics. Automotive
demand is expected to be driven by a combination
of increasingly stringent emissions legislation, the
ongoing extension of this regime to non-road
applications and a positive outlook for vehicle sales
in US and Chinese markets. Although Chinese
growth expectations have recently been downgraded,
consumer expenditure in China is still expected to
increase with positive implications for jewellery sales.
Your Company’s key operational challenges this year
were safety, managing costs and labour relations
(before the events of August and September).
Lonmin can be proud of its safety record. It is the
safest South African platinum mining company, having
achieved the lowest Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate
(LTIFR) amongst the primary producers, and a number
of our shafts have set records in South Africa for
fatality-free shifts.
Constant vigilance and procedures notwithstanding,
regrettably two colleagues lost their lives in mining
related incidents this year.
Your Company is determined to continue to be the
safest platinum miner in the business. Our
commitment to “zero harm” remains undiminished
and safety will always be our first priority.
Rising wages and other price increases in areas such
as power drove gross costs up this year. Unit costs
were of course significantly impacted by the seven
weeks we were unable to mine due to the illegal strike
at Marikana. The cost of agreeing the wage settlement
which ended it will add approximately 14% to our
wage costs in 2013 over our normalised costs for
2012. Included in this are the awards negotiated in
2011 for implementation in October 2012.
Industry Challenges
The issue of nationalisation seems to have slipped
down the political agenda in South Africa during
2011/12, with many mainstream politicians publicly
stating that it would neither be practicable nor
desirable. However, there remains the issue of multi-
faceted intervention by the state which over time
could amount to nationalisation by stealth. Your
Company is working hard, in partnership with its
industry peers and business organisations, to
address this.
Responsible mining companies operate to the
standards laid down by the International Council on
Mining and Metals (ICMM). They have much to offer
their host nations and, because of this, we and our
peers continue to make clear to government that a
balance must be maintained between the distribution
of wealth generated by mining companies and
recognition of the commercial and competitive
environment in which they operate.
Transformation
Your Company has long taken the view that delivering
on its ambitions and responsibilities in these areas is
an essential element of its licence to operate in South
Africa, both legally in terms of its obligations under the
Mining Charter or morally in terms of being a good
corporate citizen of the country.
Lonmin has a good record and one it can be proud of,
but it has also delivered more slowly in some areas,
notably the difficult issue of housing, than it would have
liked, despite strenuous efforts. Addressing these
shortcomings is a priority, but I would not wish this to
eclipse the good work we have done in recent years.
See p 11
for more 
information
Rights Issue
See p 33
for more 
information
Safety Record
See p 12
for more 
information
Wage Costs [ 08] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s Letter
The socio-economic realities of South Africa are such
that no company, however large, can resolve the
issues of housing, unemployment, poverty and
dissatisfaction which exist in the country. Your
Company is wholly committed to both the BEE and
Transformation agendas, to being part of the future
success of the Republic of South Africa, and of being
a force for good in the country. In doing so, it will grow
and ensure returns for its investors.
Role and effectiveness of the Board
Your Company is committed to the highest standards
of corporate governance.
The continuous improvement opportunity presented
by a formal review of the Board’s effectiveness is
valuable. Ordinarily, we would have done such a
review in August / September 2012, but given all the
recent events the Board judged that it would be
inappropriate to conduct such a review in 2012. The
Board does not believe that this decision creates any
additional risk for shareholders, and believes that the
decision can be justified given that the time otherwise
needed for a review was utilised to address the
multiple issues then facing the Company. It is currently
intended that an independent facilitator will manage a
rigorous review process in 2013. 
Management
Your management team is to be congratulated for
the strong operational performance of the business
through July, with marked improvement in the
performance of safety initiatives, production and
costs. The terrible Events at Marikana happened days
after Ian Farmer, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), was
hospitalised with a serious condition. The Board
appointed Simon Scott to act as CEO in Ian’s
absence, and he has done a frankly remarkable job
in leading the strong executive team in returning the
business to stable production and developing the
renewal plans for the future. My thanks are due to
them for their exceptional commitment to Lonmin.
The Board recognises the Company’s need for
permanent leadership and will take such actions as
are necessary to establish this at the appropriate time.
Dividend
Whilst dividends are not affordable in the short-term,
Lonmin has confidence in the future demand for
PGMs and its expectation is for prices to firm in
response to anticipated supply deficits in the future.
We are also determined to increase the effectiveness
of our operations, in both production and cost terms.
While there are challenges to be overcome in
achieving this, our current planning anticipates
positive free cash flow from the 2014 financial year
onwards. The return to stronger earnings and cash
flows will permit the resumption of dividends at some
point. When we do resume the payment of dividends
we would intend to follow the existing policy of
declaring an ordinary final dividend at a rate which the
Board expects can at least be maintained in
subsequent years.
Outlook
Sales of Platinum is forecast to be around 660,000
ounces for the 2013 financial year, significantly
impacted by the Events at Marikana which have
resulted in lower capital spend, the suspension of
mining at K4 and the time it takes to ramp up the
operation back to previous levels of productivity.
Metal prices have shown some recovery as recent
industrial unrest across the industry has in a short
space of time altered the outlook for the supply side of
the PGM industry. Lonmin is extremely well positioned
to benefit from a strong pricing environment when
it comes thanks to the quality of our ore body, our
un-utilised shaft capacity, our immediately available
ore reserves, and the capacity and quality of our
Processing Division.
Employees
We are a large Company, averaging some 28,000
employees (and another 10,000 contractors). It has
been my practice to thank them each year for their
work, dedication and loyalty. Given the nature of our
business and the risks associated with it this thank
you, on behalf of our shareholders, is always heartfelt
and genuine.
This year, though, our people have been through
something unprecedented. The bravery we witnessed
amongst employees determined to come to work
despite terrible intimidation, amongst managers who
faced down angry, armed mobs of people and then,
ultimately, the courage of the entire workforce in
coming together in the wake of the deaths of so many
colleagues and friends to help your Company return
to operations.
We have seen terrible things in 2012, but, as is often
the way in times of crisis, we have also seen the very
best of people. For everything our people have done
this year, much of it beyond anything we could have
expected of them, my thanks are particularly
poignant.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
See p 61
for more 
information
Corporate
Governance
See
p 58-60
for more 
information
Board and
Management
See p 13
for more 
information
Sales Guidance Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 09] Chief Executive Officer’s Review
“We delivered a solid operational performance in the 2012
financial year in spite of the significant disruptions that
we experienced.”
Operational improvement
continues around our
excellent assets
Dear Fellow Shareholder,
1. Introduction
Both the Chairman and I have spoken in this report about the shocking
events which took place at Marikana in 2012, their impact and effect on our
Company, and South Africa more widely.
As the Acting Chief Executive Officer (CEO), it is my role in this section of our
Annual Report to review the year for our shareholders and to report on our
performance. Our success as a business is central to our ability to be a good
corporate citizen of South Africa and to play our part in its transformation.
Everyone, then, has a stake in our success.
I am pleased to report that we delivered a solid operational performance in
the 2012 financial year, in spite of the significant disruptions that we
experienced. The results reflect the healthy state of our operating assets
and a team that is continuing to deliver in a challenging environment. 
Taking the 2012 financial year as a whole total tonnes mined were 10.4 million,
a 1.3 million tonnes decrease from 2011 as a result both of the Events at
Marikana and the uncharacteristically high number of safety stoppages that
were seen across the South African PGM mining industry during the first half.
This resulted in total refined production for 2012 of just under 690,000
Platinum ounces compared to just over 730,000 Platinum ounces in the
previous year. Sales of Platinum ounces were 702,000 helped by running
down stocks in the pipeline. 
Total revenue declined by US$378 million from 2011 to US$1,614 million
for the year ended 30 September 2012. Total underlying costs (excluding
the impact of the strike disruption) in US Dollar terms decreased by
US$134 million mainly due to the impact of cost escalations being offset by
decreased production and positive foreign exchange movements. Resulting
underlying EBIT was US$67 million, although this is before special costs
including those relating to the Events at Marikana and the impairment of
Akanani. After special items, which are detailed in the Financial Review,
the loss before interest and taxation was US$702 million.
Our unit cost guidance of an 8.5% increase was exceeded as unit costs
increased by 12.9% to R8,507 per PGM ounce produced as a result of the
significant disruption to production we experienced. On a normalised basis,
unit costs would have increased by 5.2%.
Cash flow generated from operations was US$300 million although this
benefited from the pre-paid sale of gold undertaken in the first half of the
year and the reduction in closing stocks following the Events at Marikana.
Capital expenditure at US$408 million was less than guidance. Total cash
outflow was US$185 million leaving net debt at US$421 million. 
Simon Scott
Acting Chief Executive Officer [ 10] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
We have been monitoring carefully our covenant
position in relation to our existing debt facilities.
While the covenants as at 30 September 2012
were not breached our debt levels are likely to
rise significantly over the coming months in order
to fund the production ramp up and enable stock
levels to be rebuilt through the production
pipeline. Indeed at 31 October 2012 net debt
was approximately US$550 million. In light of this,
we believe that the Company may breach its
covenants under the terms of the existing debt
facilities when they are tested for the six months
ended 31 March 2013, or subsequently, in the
event that the Company does not raise new
equity and secure the agreed amendments to its
existing bank facilities. This is addressed in
Section 4 below.
2. Safety
Our commitment to zero harm and safe production
in our work place remains undiminished. We
believe that while our fundamental approach to
safety management remains sound, we continue
to learn from the root cause of each incident.
Regrettably we recorded two mining related
fatalities during the period and we extend our
sincere condolences to the family and friends of
Mr Albino Moises Cuna who died in December
2011 and Mr Thobisani David Didi who died in
June 2012. The full year mining safety record,
absent these fatalities, has been commendable.
Lonmin achieved the lowest Lost Time Injury
Frequency Rate (LTIFR) in the platinum industry of
4.16 per million man hours worked, 11.7% lower
than the 4.71 achieved in 2011. Rowland shaft
continued to be an industry leader as it recorded
the significant achievement of 12.9 million Fall of
Ground Fatality Free Shifts over a ten year period.
We also recorded a best ever five million Fatality
Free Shifts for Lonmin as a whole. We remain
completely focused on improving our safety
working in partnership with the Department of
Mineral Resources (DMR).
3. Operational Review
There is no question that the tragic events that
took place at our Marikana operations in August
and September were hugely disruptive but I am
pleased to say that we are working well to
stabilise the Company and bring production back
to normal. Following the addendum to the
existing wage agreement signed at the end of
September, employee attendance is back to
normal levels. The production ramp up is
currently going better than expected and we fully
anticipate that we will be operating at previously
achieved productivity run rates during the third
quarter of the 2013 financial year.
Mining
In respect to the 2012 financial year, the total
tonnes mined were 10.4 million, a 1.3 million
tonnes decrease from the 2011 financial year.
As noted at the time of the Company’s interim
results, productivity at all the mining divisions,
Karee, Middelkraal, Easterns and Westerns in
the first half of the year was impacted by an
uncharacteristically high number of Section 54
safety stoppages, which were also seen across
the whole South African PGM mining industry
during this period. The momentum established
at the beginning of the second half was however
impacted by the Events at Marikana which
affected production of the whole operation. The
combined impact of these disruptions in the
period was a loss of approximately 2.4 million
tonnes, of which 1.8 million tonnes, equivalent to
110,000 mined Platinum ounces, was as a result
of the Events at Marikana. Notwithstanding the
disruptions we made good progress with our
mining initiatives which aim to improve productivity.
Our immediately available ore reserves increased
by 14% to 3.3 million centares equal to 18 months.
This level of preparedness provides flexibility for
the future. Our safety initiatives have produced
excellent results and this is reflected in the
number of industry safety awards that were won
by the various mining teams and shafts.
Our Line of Sight System to track production on a
daily basis and identify early technical bottlenecks
is progressing well and our production incentive
bonus system is now fully rolled out. In addition
team effectiveness training has now been rolled
out at Karee and early indications are encouraging.
Processing
I am pleased to report the success of a number
of initiatives in the Process Division in the 2012
financial year. The Easterns Tailing Treatment
Plant was commissioned, coming into production
in April 2012, and has contributed to the
improvements in our overall recovery rates. The
smelter complex has improved its flexibility and
capacity through the rebuild and modification of the
Number One furnace and the construction of the
new Number Two furnace. The first matte tap from
the Number Two furnace took place in July 2012.
In terms of performance the total tonnes milled
during the 2012 financial year declined by 10%
to 10.8 million tonnes when compared against
12.0 million tonnes in 2011. This translated into
total refined production for 2012 of just under
690,000 Platinum ounces, compared to just over
730,000 Platinum ounces in the previous year.
Despite the disruptions, we delivered underlying
operational improvements with total milled head
grade and overall concentrator recoveries
improving during the year.
The US Dollar basket price including base metal
revenue at US$1,163 was 16.3% lower than the
prior financial year. The corresponding Rand
basket price including base metal revenue was
ZAR9,304, which was 4.2% lower than the 2011
financial year.
See p 34
for more 
information
Fatality Free Shifts
See p 36
for more 
information
Processing Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
[ 11]
www.lonmin.com
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
4. Balance Sheet Structure
In last year’s Annual Report, we provided
guidance on our planned capital expenditure of
around US$450 million for the 2012 financial year,
based on the then outlook for PGM markets. This
guidance was reiterated at our interim results in
May 2012, recognising the uncertain near term
outlook for PGM prices (the price of platinum had
fallen from a 2012 peak of US$1,722 per ounce
on 28 February 2012 to US$1,440 by the time of
publication of the interim results on 14 May 2012),
and stating our intention to defer future capital
expenditure if appropriate.
By the time of publication of the Third Quarter
Production Report on 26 July 2012, the platinum
price had remained below US$1,500 per ounce
for more than eleven weeks, and we
acknowledged that the weak pricing environment
was likely to persist for longer than anticipated.
As a result, we announced that capital expenditure
would be reduced to around US$430 million in
the 2012 financial year (reflecting the proximity of
the year end and the lead time relating to capital
expenditure programmes), and to around
US$250 million in each of 2013 and 2014
financial years. This reduction would be achieved
principally through the deferral of capital spend
on the Hossy, K4 and Saffy shafts, as well as the
optimisation of some of the processing projects.
Against this backdrop, the Events at Marikana
resulted in a material reduction in mine production
at a time when we were not well positioned to
absorb the resulting financial shock, though
production and sales of finished metal continued
during the period of the work stoppage by
maintaining operations in the Process Division
through the running down of stocks in the pipeline.
Given this we completed a thorough review of
Lonmin’s strategy and capital structure and
concluded that reducing Lonmin’s cost base and
capital expenditure in the near term, whilst raising
additional equity, in conjunction with entering into
amended bank facilities, is the best route to
achieving a more appropriate and robust capital
structure with greater financial flexibility.
We believe that Lonmin’s long-life assets should
be substantially funded by long-term equity
capital, supplemented by free cash flow with
appropriate levels of debt funding available to
provide additional financial flexibility for the Group
as well as to reduce its overall cost of capital. In
this context, we view debt financing as providing
the flexibility required to fund Lonmin’s normal
working capital requirements and to accommodate
short-term cash flow volatility inherent in an
operationally geared business arising from either
or both of movements in the price of PGMs and
the Rand / US Dollar exchange rate. In addition,
we believe that it would be more appropriate for
the Group’s debt facilities to contain covenants
that are linked to capital expenditure and tangible
net worth rather than covenants linked to
profitability, which do not reflect the significant
asset backing that underpins the longer term
credit quality of the Group.
The announcement of our results therefore
coincides with the launch of a Rights Issue
seeking to raise approximately US$817 million
before costs, the intention for which we
announced on 30 October. In addition, the terms
of our debt facilities will be revised subject to a
successful Rights Issue to provide greater
funding flexibility. More details on the agreed
amendments to debt facilities are included in the
Financial Review.
Rights Issue
The proceeds from the Rights Issue will be used
to permanently reduce the Company’s available
US Dollar denominated borrowing facilities from
US$700 million to US$400 million and partially
pay down outstanding amounts on our remaining
facilities. Post the repayment, the US Dollar
Revolving Facility of US$400 million and the other
Facilities of approximately US$225 million will
remain available to the Company. This lower level
of borrowing will provide the flexibility we need to
fund the Company’s normal working capital.
The UK issue price of 140 pence per new share
represents a discount of 44.4% to the theoretical
ex-rights price (TERP) and a discount of 69.1%
to the closing price of 452.8 pence per share on
Thursday 8 November. The South African issue
price of ZAR19.4872 per share represents a
discount of 45.0% to the TERP and a discount
of 69.7% to the closing price of ZAR64.22 per
share on Thursday 8 November.
The Rights Issue is being fully underwritten save
in respect of new shares which the Company’s
Directors have irrevocably committed to take up,
which is around 0.03% of the new shares to be
issued in the Rights Issue. Further details relating
to the Rights Issue are outlined in a separate
announcement published today.
5. Future Production, Cost Management and
Capital Expenditure
Future Production
We continue to have a clear strategic focus on
our mineral resources, mining and processing
infrastructure at Marikana, and have invested
significantly in these areas in recent years. This
investment had two aims. First, it was necessary
in order to restore the operational health of the
business which had fallen to unacceptable levels
prior to 2008. We believe this aim has been
achieved. There have been significant
improvements in metrics such as development,
grade and recoveries, and following further
expenditure in the Process Division the risk of
smelter outages, for example, have fallen
materially. The second aim was to deliver
significant growth in production and sales over
the medium-term in order to meet expected
demand and to result in a reduction in unit costs
over the corresponding period.
See p 43
for more 
information
Equity Capital
See p 43
for more 
information
Borrowing [ 12] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
In light of the Events at Marikana, the focus of
and priority for the Company during the 2013
financial year is to return productivity levels safely
back to, and then above, the run rates achieved
prior to those events and to improve relationships
with employees. Part of this will require
implementing sustainable inclusive collective
bargaining structures that facilitate wage
agreements that are accepted by all the relevant
stakeholders to be binding. We have announced
plans to target production at Marikana of around
680,000 Platinum ounces of metal in concentrate
in the year ending 30 September 2013, although
Platinum sales for the year are expected to be
around 660,000 ounces as in-process inventory
levels are rebuilt within the Process Division. The
ramp up back to these normalised levels of
productivity is so far progressing better than
planned and we fully expect the Marikana
operations to be operating at previously achieved
productivity run rates during the third quarter of
the 2013 financial year.
We will continue to monitor developments in
PGM market conditions closely and may
accelerate or delay planned investment if we
deem doing so to be in the best interests of
shareholders.
Beyond the 2013 financial year, we will continue
to target growth in production and an
improvement in its relative position on the cost
curve. We are targeting production in excess of
750,000 Platinum ounces in each of the years
ending 30 September 2014 and 2015, and in
excess of 800,000 Platinum ounces per annum
by the 2016 financial year.
Cost Management
The Events at Marikana have created two specific
cost pressures for the Company in the 2013
financial year. First, the agreement entered into
with the trade unions and worker representatives
increased the wages paid to Lonmin’s workers
employed in the Category 4-9 bargaining units by
about 14% from 1 October 2012, which includes
the wage increase of 9% due under the existing
wage agreement signed in 2011. As a result,
employment costs overall will increase by
approximately 11% in the 2013 financial year
against the normalised employee cost in FY2012.
Secondly, there is inefficiency inherent in any
production ramp up, as the business bears the
full costs of operations, but does not achieve full
production in the early stages of that ramp up.
As a result, we anticipate unit costs of around
ZAR9,350 per PGM ounce produced for the
2013 financial year.
A number of measures are in place, or will be
implemented during the 2013 financial year,
both to address the pressures of gross cost
increases and also to improve the effectiveness
of the Company’s expenditure.
These measures include:
• A review of the Company’s operating model,
as well as management structure, is
expected to yield savings in excess of
ZAR200 million per annum, on an annualised
basis, with the full effect from 2014 onwards;
• A procurement initiative known as “Total Cost
of Ownership” is being implemented which is
expected to yield savings of ZAR100 million
in the second half of the 2013 financial year
and in each subsequent financial year
thereafter; and
• The Company has already completed and
embedded a productivity enhancement
programme known as “Line of Sight” and
“Mission Directed Work Teams”, which will
form the foundation for a series of further
productivity and optimisation initiatives in the
2013 financial year. Team effectiveness
training trials at various shafts in the Karee
mining unit during the 2012 financial year
have shown the potential of this initiative,
which will be extended across the business
during the 2013 financial year. This will be
supported by improved systems and training,
particularly for supervisory management.
Taken together, these and other initiatives should
significantly improve the productivity of the
Company. 
Capital Expenditure
In order to achieve the targeted level of
production Lonmin expects to invest approximately
US$175 million for the 2013 financial year and
approximately US$210 million for the 2014
financial year (depending on the Rand / US Dollar
exchange rate). Of the aggregate capital
expenditure planned for the 2013 and 2014
financial years, approximately US$260 million
relates to the Mining Division with the balance
relating to the Process Division and expenditure
as part of the Company’s Social Labour Plan
(SLP) commitments. In the 2015 and 2016
financial years, the Directors expect that capital
expenditure will rise to around US$400 million
per annum (depending on the Rand / US Dollar
exchange rate). The step-up in capital expenditure
from 2015 onwards primarily relates to further
development in Hossy, Saffy and K4 in order to
support the increased production levels and
processing projects. However, the increase in
capital expenditure in the 2015 and 2016 financial
years is contingent upon performance in the earlier
years and that there is sufficient market demand
and sufficiently attractive pricing for PGMs to
warrant the increased investment. The thresholds
in the financial covenant linked to capital
expenditure within the amended bank facilities
described in the Financial Review have been set
at approximately 10% above the budgeted levels
of capital expenditure outlined above.
See p 24
for more 
information
Platinum Sales
See p 43
for more 
information
Capital Expenditure Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 13] Chief Executive Officer’s Review
6. Building a Sustainable Business
Social Licence to Operate
Alongside our legal and regulatory obligations,
we believe it is essential to hold an informal social
licence from the people and communities that
host its operations.
We have transformation goals which were
established in line with the Mining Charter and
are aligned to our SLP commitment to the South
African Government. We have worked with
determination to accomplish the goals we have
set and made progress in many areas, notably
in our education programmes for the community,
in the number of Historically Disadvantaged
South Africans (HDSA) employees within our
management structures, which now stands at
36% (excluding white women) and in our
initiatives to procure from HDSA managed and
owned suppliers.
Our gender-related policies and procedures,
designed to increase the participation of women in
the Company, have had some success, with the
number of women at the Company having grown
by 66% since 2007, but there are still challenges
in order to meet our 2014 commitments.
Nevertheless, we recognise that we have
delivered more slowly in some areas. Housing is
the hardest task the wider mining sector faces,
in terms of what is still to be done. Lonmin is far
from alone in trying to deal with what is essentially
a national problem in South Africa.
Our housing strategy is comprised of three
elements: hostel conversion, Marikana housing
ownership and the long-term housing programme.
To date we have converted 79 of the 128 old-style
hostels into 931 single person occupancy and
580 family units and we have detailed plans to
convert the remaining blocks by 31 December
2014. We have also seen 242 employees
become owners of homes, sold through the
Marikana Housing Development Corporation.
The challenge however is in facilitating the
provision of mass affordable employee
accommodation particularly for our migrant
workforce. The Events at Marikana have
highlighted the critical shortage of affordable
housing as a major challenge for Lonmin and the
South African nation more broadly, reflecting the
need for a solution that involves all stakeholders
including government, mining companies and
employees. Management is engaging with
employees and all stakeholders as necessary to
understand better their requirements as part of
developing a framework for a sustainable and
fundable solution. We recognise there will be a
cost to this and we will develop appropriate
budgets in due course. The partnership Lonmin
has with the Greater Lonmin Community where
its operations are based is important to us. For
over 18 years, we have paid royalties into a trust
on behalf of the Bapo Ba-Mogale community.
The amount of funds contributed to date is
approximately ZAR371 million.
The Events at Marikana have shown, however,
that much remains to be done and we need to
work more closely with our communities to
improve dialogue and rebuild trust as this will be
key to enhancing better relations with them. Our
management team will be focusing on this in the
coming months.
Equity Ownership
We are required to increase HDSA ownership in
our operations by 31 December 2014 to the 26%
required under the Mining Charter. As at 30
September 2012, HDSA investors directly and
indirectly owned 18% of the share capital of our
subsidiaries that own and operate Marikana and
Limpopo and that participate in the Pandora joint
venture, as well as 26% of the share capital of its
subsidiary that owns Akanani.
Our BEE partner, Incwala Resource (Pty) Limited
(Incwala), is owned as to 50.03% of its equity by
Shanduka Group (Proprietary) Limited. Other
equity investors in Incwala include a trust for the
benefit of community members, the Industrial
Development Corporation and Lonmin itself. In
considering how best to meet its HDSA 2014
ownership requirements, we believe that one
element we must consider is how to achieve
further HDSA ownership through a broad-based
solution as this will ultimately be in the best
interests of shareholders.
Judicial Commission of Inquiry
The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the
Events of Marikana commenced on 1 October,
led by retired Judge Farlam. We welcome this
Inquiry and will be co-operating fully with its work.
7. Guidance
In light of the Events at Marikana, our focus during
2013 is to return production safely back to the
run rate levels achieved prior to those events.
We have announced our plans to deliver Platinum
production at Marikana of 680,000 ounces of
saleable metal in concentrate in the year ending
30 September 2013. This is below our previous
expectations for two reasons associated with the
Events at Marikana: first, due to the estimated
time required to return to normal productivity levels;
and, secondly, due to the impact of lower capital
spend and the suspension of production at K4
shaft which, as previously announced, was placed
on care and maintenance in September 2012.
The metal in concentrate output forecast for 2013
is expected to result in Platinum sales of around
660,000 ounces. The shortfall of around 20,000
ounces from the metal in concentrate output
represents the necessary build-up of pipeline
ounces in the smelters and the refineries during
2013 to replace stocks depleted during the fourth
quarter of the current financial year.
See p 28
for more 
information
Housing Strategy
See p 32
for more 
information
Judicial Commission [ 14] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Taking into account the reduced production
profile for 2013 and the increase in wages, we
anticipate that the unit cost per PGM ounce will
increase by 10% to R9,350.
Capital expenditure for 2013 is forecast to be
US$175 million as mentioned above.
8. Executive
Ian Farmer, CEO, is undergoing a course of
treatment for a serious illness diagnosed in
August. In all of this, he remains firmly in our
thoughts.
Our executive team has excelled, despite trying
times. The team continues to demonstrate its
cohesiveness, eminent expertise, and
notwithstanding the recent absence of Ian, solid
support for me in my role as Acting CEO.
My thanks go to the Chairman and Mahomed
Seedat who have joined the Executive Committee
and to Alan Ferguson who has been working with
me on a part-time basis. Their support has been
invaluable during this challenging time.
9. Thank You to All
The dedication, support and professionalism of
our employees remain key to our success. The
tragic events of the last two months of the
financial year have affected all of us and although
saddened, I am satisfied that the Company
navigated these events appropriately. I am
confident that we have the right strategy and plan
to realise long-term value from the Company’s
high quality resource base and existing
infrastructure for the benefit of all our stakeholders
and I look forward to delivering against these
plans in 2013.
Ian Farmer joins me in conveying our best wishes
to everyone in the Company.
Simon Scott
Acting Chief Executive Officer 01 / 
      Lonmin Explained
     
 16  Our Business Model
 18  Strategic Overview
 22  Market Review
 24  2012 Key Performance Indicators
 26  Transformation and Sustainability Overview
 30  Year at a glance
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information S u s t a i n a b i l i t y
S u s t a i n a b i l i t y
G o v e r n a n c e
G o v e r n a n c e
G o v e r n a n c e
G o v e r n a n c e
T r a n s f o r m a t i o n
S u s t a i n a b i l i t y
Marketing
Operations
Value Chain
Development
Exploration
Strategic
Relationships
Our People
Financial 
Strength & Control
Reserves 
& Resources
Strategic
Assets
[ 16] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business Model
We generate value
for our shareholders
by securing prospecting and mining
rights to areas which have PGM
mineralisation, developing these areas
into resources and reserves, leading to
sustainable commercial production and
processing to produce refined metals.
We enhance and secure the value we have created through longstanding relationships
with key customers, acquiring significant market intelligence which informs future
investment decisions.
Processing
Having commercialised the large
scale processing and refining of
the UG2 reef with industry leading
skills and technology over many
years, we add significant value by
putting our ore through the full
value chain, and producing
refined metals for sale.
Mining
With over 40 years’ expertise
in mining PGMs in South
Africa, and having pioneered
large scale mining of the
predominant UG2 reef on our
lease area, we are able to
generate significant value from
our underground and
opencast operations.
Exploration
Our position on the Bushveld
Complex, the world’s largest
deposit of PGMs, means we
have significant resources to
sustain our current
operations. We maintain a
modest international
exploration budget, operating
largely in areas of known
prospectivity for PGMs.
Marketing
We have two long-term
cornerstone customers in
BASF and Mitsubishi. We
deliver our metals directly to
them and their underlying
customers. Together with our
customers we continuously
analyse and review market
trends to inform our
investment decisions. Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
Akanani
Limpopo
Loskop
Marikana
Brits
Pandora
Pretoria
Johannesburg
Rustenburg
[ 17] Our Business Model
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Our Market Places
PGMs are used globally in a number of different market segments:
• Autocatalysts – the pursuit to reduce air pollution and greenhouse gases drives ever tightening
emissions standards, sustaining demand for platinum, palladium and rhodium for the long-term;
• Jewellery – platinum is seen as the ultimate jewellery metal – pure, rare and eternal – It has secured a
strong position as the metal of choice in the bridal market;
• Industrial – platinum, palladium, rhodium, iridium and ruthenium are used in applications such as flat
screen televisions, mobile phones, hard drives and catalysts in petroleum refineries; and
• Investment – demand interest continues, especially for platinum and palladium and more recently
rhodium, in the form of investment in Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs).
Year ended Year ended
30.09.12 30.09.11
US Dollar Prices (average selling price achieved) $/oz $/oz
Platinum 1,517 1,769
Palladium 630 752
Rhodium 1,274 2,145
PGM basket incl. by-product revenue 1,163 1,389
Our Assets
Lonmin has substantial PGM resources, primarily in South Africa, but also in Canada, which will enable us to
mine for decades to come:
• Marikana Operations – our flagship operation and currently the source of more than 90% of our annual
production;
• Pandora Operations – a joint venture in which we have a 42.5% interest contributes 4% of our annual
production;
• Marikana Smelter and Base Metal Refinery and Brakpan Precious Metal Refinery – capacity to process
and refine our current and future production, offering the potential to smelt and refine third party and
recycling material;
• Limpopo Project – Shanduka delivered the Limpopo Feasibility Review on 31 August 2012, which
showed a positive NPV but is still subject to Independent Peer Review by us. Assuming a successful
outcome of the Feasibility Review, Shanduka will look to raise the necessary funds and will be entitled to
subscribe for 50% plus one share in the issued share capital of Messina Platinum Mines Limited which
is currently a wholly owned subsidiary of Messina Limited (wholly owned by Western Platinum Limited),
thereby acquiring control and operational management of our Limpopo Division;
• Akanani Project – following the recently completed prefeasibility study which resulted in a partial
impairment of the asset, we maintain our strategy of continuing exploration and studies to develop a
viable operation at this location; and
• Canadian Sudbury Projects – joint ventures with Vale and Wallbridge exploring PGM mineralisation in
the Sudbury Basin with a pre-feasibility study on a modest open pit completed. A strategy that creates
shared value and optionality
for stakeholders
[ 18] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Strategic Overview
The world is likely to require stable and increasing
quantities of PGMs from quality suppliers for
decades to come. PGMs are used in applications
which depend on the physical and chemical
properties of these metals.
Despite extensive academic and commercial research over a number of years, no
commercially viable substitute has yet been demonstrated for their primary usage in
automotive and industrial catalysis. We believe that their well-established performance
across numerous technical applications poses a significant technological barrier to
substitution. We also expect long-term demand for PGMs for catalytic converters in
internal combustion engines (the biggest component of global demand) to grow, due to
increasingly stringent emissions legislation, the extension of this regime beyond
automobiles (for example, to heavy-duty diesel and non-road uses of internal combustion
engines) and the expected growth in automotive production, particularly in Asia.
The increasing development of fuel cells, which often include a platinum component,
will, we believe result in them becoming a commercially viable energy source, further
supporting continued demand for platinum over the long-term.
In the short-term, we believe that PGM prices will remain volatile whilst economic
uncertainty prevails, but over the longer term industry dynamics remain favourable. Our
overall view is that the longer term demand fundamentals of platinum and other PGMs
remain positive. At Lonmin we have the experience and know how to safely and
sustainably meet a significant portion of this demand from our large scale prime PGM
assets situated in the heart of South Africa.
Our business model is to create value for shareholders through the discovery, extraction,
refining and marketing of PGMs. In light of the Events at Marikana and the ongoing
challenging trading environment, the Board has completed a thorough review of our
strategy and capital structure and has continued to examine ways of conserving capital
and reducing costs. The Company’s Board approved strategy is to keep production at
reasonably consistent levels through harnessing the benefits of recent and ongoing capital
investment and, as a result, maintain prudent finances while keeping open the option for
potentially significant future growth as and when PGM market conditions make this advisable.
We have invested significant capital expenditures in sinking the new shafts and in
developing the ore reserves to support the ramp up of mining activities when market
conditions improve. Our Mining Division is implementing a programme to improve
operational efficiency and cost effectiveness and our Process Division has the capacity
available to process the expected levels of ore production from the new and existing
shafts, having invested in both efficiency and reliability improvements, including
constructing and commissioning the new Number Two furnace at the smelter complex.
We enjoy strong relationships with key industrial customers, who have purchased PGMs
from us for several decades. Our long established customer relationships give us insight
into trends and developments in the end markets for applications and products using
PGMs, as well as the behaviour of end customers and consumers in those markets. We
also participate directly in the support and development of the platinum and palladium
jewellery market through market initiatives sponsored by the PGM mining industry.
⁄ [ 19] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
Strategic Overview
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
1
Whilst our operational safety record is amongst the industry’s best, our intention is to remain the safest
primary PGM producer. Our journey to zero harm continues and is supported by our efforts to improve
relationships with organised labour and government as well as bolstering employee morale, all of which
should lead to more productive and efficient operations.
Alongside our legal and regulatory obligations, we believe that it is necessary to earn our social licence to
operate from the people and communities who host our operations through creating economic value by
contributing to addressing their needs and challenges. We have engaged with and invested heavily in our local
communities over many years and one of the key obligations we have assumed under our social and labour
plan is improving our employees living conditions. To that end, we have focused on constructing houses and
converting the former single-sex hostel accommodation into bachelor and family housing units. We continue
to support our workforce in improving their general health and we recognise our environmental obligations.
We are a proud member of the International Council on Metals and Mining (ICMM), and are committed to
implementing its principles through the Sustainable Development Framework. We believe that we operate our
mining assets in accordance with internationally accepted sustainability standards (including safety, health,
environmental and social standards) and aim to be open and transparent in our reporting to all stakeholders
on our sustainability performance.
Building a safe and sustainable business
2
Our near term focus is on delivering a sustainable level of production from our
Marikana assets, at appropriate levels for current demand for Platinum and other
PGMs which is expected to be relatively subdued. We have invested in our mining
infrastructure; having spent approximately US$1.3 billion of capital expenditure in
the four financial years ended 30 September 2012. The expenditure of recent years
has resulted in our improved ore reserve position, which, at 30 September 2012,
translated into immediately available ore reserves equating to approximately 18 months
of mining. We expect to maintain this level of ore reserve availability over the next two
years. Amongst other things, the capital spend has also funded the building of the
Number Two smelter and finalisation of the shaft and associated infrastructure at K4.
Protect the short-term value of the Marikana assets
3
The Company maintains a rigorous focus on cost control, in relation to both gross costs and costs per unit
of production.
Most of our costs are labour related. Whilst the gross cost of the Company’s total labour complement
generally increases in line with South African labour cost inflation, there is potential for one-off increases to
be incurred, as was the case with the September 2012 Wage Addendum. Gross costs of consumables are
tightly controlled, through centralised procurement and supported by strong management information
systems and internal controls. 
The profitability of a mine is closely related to productivity and efficiency as well as the level of production.
The costs per unit of production are currently higher than has been the case in the recent past as a number
of our smaller shafts are in the late stages of their operational life and operate less efficiently as a result,
whilst our newer shafts, Hossy and Saffy, are still in the ramp up phase and K4 is currently on care and
maintenance. Over the longer term, our strategy is to continue to invest in these newer shafts, including K4,
so that, in combination with its other improvement initiatives and the likely closure of the older shafts as they
are mined out, cost efficiencies are improved and cash generation is enhanced. In addition, these newer
shafts provide capacity for growth in production which, in turn, should help to lower unit costs.
Continuing focus on productivity and cost management
Our six primary strategic elements [ 20] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Strategic Overview
4
Our long life high quality mineral resources and our intentions to complete our investments at K4, Saffy and
Hossy, ore reserve development and the expansion of our overall production capacity over time will enable us
to increase production in a prudent manner to meet expected future growth in demand for PGMs as market
conditions improve. K4, which when at full capacity will be one of our largest shafts and which is currently on
care and maintenance, is expected to restart mining operations in the latter part of the 2014 financial year
although the impact on production will initially be gradual until capital expenditure levels increase.
The focus on underground ore reserve development is crucial. Through increasing the total face length
available for mining at each of the shafts, we are able to improve our operational flexibility to respond to
variations in ground conditions. Similarly, having greater choice over how we schedule the extraction of ore
from each shaft will also provide greater resilience in our business, better enabling us to achieve higher levels
of production. In the long-term, we aim to have fully developed ore reserves ready for mining at all Marikana
shafts, in order to provide us with the option to respond to market demand by extracting higher grade ore
where appropriate.
Preserve the longer term value potential of the Marikana assets
5
We aim to preserve a conservative balance sheet focused on maintaining access to
sufficient funds to ensure that the Company can both facilitate all ongoing operations
and finance prudent capital expenditure programmes. 
Prior to the Events at Marikana, we commenced a review of Lonmin’s growth
strategy, future production profile and capital investment programme as a result of
continued weak short-term demand outlook for PGMs and the weak pricing
environment and as a result reduced our future capital expenditure plans in order to
protect the balance sheet. The Events at Marikana, however, reduced the sales of
metal below levels previously expected and resulted in significant fixed costs not
being recovered as production had stopped for approximately seven weeks. All this
adversely impacted profitability and placed the Company’s cash flows and liquidity
outlook under considerable pressure. We have launched a Rights Issue, the proceeds
of which are intended to substantially strengthen the Company’s financial position.
Generating balance sheet capacity
6
In addition to the growth we expect to achieve at Marikana, we have further expansion potential in the
adjacent Pandora joint venture area. This area is currently mined from one of the Company’s older incline
shafts within the Easterns part of the Marikana mine and will enable the Company to extend the operational
lives of these valuable assets. As with Marikana, the growth options are mostly brownfield and will enable the
Company to exploit existing infrastructure, skills and relationships and consequently, are lower risk than some
of the projects being pursued by other mining companies in the Bushveld Complex.
Other assets in our portfolio that have development potential include the Limpopo mine and Akanani. Outside
South Africa, we have two separate exploration joint ventures with Vale and Wallbridge in the Sudbury Basin
in Ontario, Canada.
Maintaining the option of attractive longer term growth opportunities Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 21] Strategic Overview
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
See ibc
for more 
information
See p 22
for more 
information
See p 35
for more 
information
See p 27
for more 
information
See p 49
for more 
information
See p 26
for more 
information
Our six integrated foundations
Culture and Values
Create a culture based on our values of:
• Zero Harm;
• Integrity, Honesty & Trust;
• Transparency;
• Respect for Each Other;
• High Performance; and
• Employee Self-Worth
Market Intelligence
Understand the global economy and the PGM market supply and demand fundamentals to ensure
informed decision making
Productivity
Underpinned by sound technical competence which is critical to achieving safety
Transformation
Ongoing commitment to achieving the Mining Charter targets
Sustainability
An integrated approach to safety, health, the environment, community development and employee
relations as well as attracting, developing and retaining scarce skills are critical to sustaining our
operations. We believe that the sustainability of our business is dependent on stakeholder relationships,
and that sound, structured stakeholder relationships serve to strengthen the resilience of our Company
and our ability to adapt to the increasing demands placed on us amid the uncertainty of the current
business environment.
Communications
Effective communication with stakeholders and enhancing relationships [ 22] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Market Review
Oct
US$/oz
Jan Apr Jul Sept
FY2012 Ave. $638/oz | FY2011 Ave. $746/oz | –12%
500
600
700
800
900
Source: I-net
2011 2012
Palladium Price
1,300
1,800
2,000
1,400
1,600
1,500
1,700
1,900
Oct
Source: I-net
US$/oz
2011
Jan Apr Jul Sept
FY2012 Ave. $1,535/oz | FY2011 Ave. $1,761/oz | –10%
2012
Platinum Price
Overview
The market this year has been characterised by
significant influences on both the supply and demand
side. Though the fallout from illegal strikes affecting
mines in South Africa is still to run its course, it is likely
that primary metal supplies will continue a decreasing
trend while operating cost increases will exceed
South African inflation rates putting pressure on the
availability of capital for increased levels of capital
expenditure. This will ultimately impact on future
supply levels. The Eurozone crisis continues to be the
major dampener of demand.
Notwithstanding softer demand during 2012, there
are numerous areas of captive demand that should
continue to support the platinum market and prices
in the medium term and beyond. Catalyst fabricators
are gearing up for Euro 6 emissions legislation in 2014.
In addition, a growing number of engine categories
that were previously not fitted with PGM containing
catalysts, including non-road equipment (construction,
agriculture and mining) in the USA, Japan and Europe,
as well as heavy-duty on-road engines in Europe, will
need to comply from 2014. The tightening of legislation
for non-road engines in emerging countries will see
the legislative net increasingly capture more than the
current 20% of the world’s non-road fleet.
Longer term, there are wide ranging drivetrain options
that could be used to reduce carbon dioxide output
from vehicles, including full electric power. However,
significant advances in combustion engine technology,
including smaller and more efficient turbocharged
engines, as well as hybridisation and the use of
advanced lightweight materials, ensure the future of
the internal combustion engine for many years to
come. Consequently the fundamental outlook for
PGM’s remains positive and robust.
PGM Prices
Downgrades to forecast economic growth in Europe
in the second half of 2011 pulled the platinum price
down from an average of $1,748 per ounce in
September 2011 to an average of $1,454 per ounce
in December. Price weakness continued through 2012
with prices mostly trading in a $1,400 –1,500 per
ounce range, except for two major supply events that
stimulated price rallies, the second of which is still
underway.
An illegal strike at Impala Platinum in February
reduced platinum supply by 150,000 ounces and led
to a price rally that lifted platinum to over $1,700 per
ounce for a week.
Most recently the Events at Marikana and subsequent
illegal strikes at other mines saw platinum prices rise
from below $1,400 per ounce to close to $1,700 per
ounce by mid-September. 
2012 average platinum prices at $1,535 per ounce
were still $180 per ounce down on the same period
in 2011.
Palladium prices tend to be more volatile but moved
in tandem and in reaction to the same events that
affected platinum. Palladium prices for 2012 declined
12% year on year compared to platinum’s drop of 10%.
Long-term PGM outlook
remains solid [ 23] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
Market Review
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Oct
US$/oz
Jan Apr Jul Sept
FY2012 Ave. $1,385/oz | FY2011 Ave. $2,208/oz | –34%
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
Source: I-net
2011 2012
Rhodium Price
33%
41%
3%
6%
3%
7%
3%
3% 1%
Automotive
Jewellery
Petroleum
Chemical
Electrical
Glass
Medical & 
Biomedical
Other
Off-road Engines
Source: SFA (Oxford) 2012
Platinum Demand by Industry
Jewellery
In recent years jewellery demand has become
increasingly significant for the platinum market and
now accounts for 33% of demand. Chinese platinum
jewellery consumption, which accounts for more than
65% of the global jewellery market, continues to grow.
Underlying, and less price elastic, bridal jewellery
purchases are increasing year on year along with
wedding registrations which were up more than 10%
for the first six months of 2012. Despite softening
Gross Domestic Product growth forecasts for China,
major jewellery retailers continue to expand.
Investment
The industrial action and social political unrest at PGM
mines in South Africa seemed to be the catalyst for
the most recent increase in Exchange Traded Fund
(ETF) holdings of 187,000 ounces of platinum.
Palladium ETF holdings were barely affected with only
34,000 additional ounces added. Platinum supply is
heavily concentrated in South Africa at 73% of
primary supply, while palladium supplies are more
globally spread with 37% derived from South African
based mines.
Looking at 2012 year to date, platinum ETFs have
added 228,000 ounces to reach a new record level
of 1.59 million ounces. Palladium ETFs added
233,000 ounces of palladium this year to reach
1.86 million ounces.
Outlook
Primary supply will be down year on year in 2012
mainly owing to industrial unrest, but also due to
some closures, notably Aquarius’ Everest South and
Blue Ridge operations. Looking ahead, supply will
remain constrained due to supply disruptions and
forced cutbacks of capital expenditure since the
financial crisis started in 2008.
At the start of 2012, with a backdrop of weakening
demand in Europe, the prospect of a platinum market
surplus loomed. However, based on recent supply
disruptions a market shortfall is increasingly likely.
There are significant stocks that have accumulated
since the financial crisis in 2008, but these should
start to be drawn down and translate into higher
prices, particularly as captive demand takes hold
towards the latter part of 2013 and during 2014.
The palladium market remains in structural deficit and
reliant on accumulated stocks to meet demand. The
switch from palladium to platinum in light duty diesel
catalysts makes sense today at the current price
differential and will continue to benefit producers and
investors exposed to palladium for the medium term,
but the palladium supply demand mismatch is
unsustainable beyond this time frame.
Rhodium supply is most concentrated in South Africa
and supply disruptions, particularly affecting marginal
UG2 (rhodium rich) operations should start to
accelerate the drawdown of accumulated inventories.
The lasting effects from a tight market that forced the
rhodium price spike in 2008 are becoming increasingly
evident, as manufacturers continue to look for
breakthroughs that would require less rhodium. As a
result of weak demand and a stock overhang, the fall
in the rhodium price has far exceeded both platinum
and palladium with a 34% drop in 2012 compared
to 2011.
Demand
Automotive
While European auto sales contracted in the period
under review the large auto inventory overhang of
more than two million vehicles in 2008/09 does not
appear to exist today. Auto manufacturers adjusted
factory output to carefully manage inventories. Global
vehicle production is already higher than pre-financial
crisis levels and looks set to continue to grow.
Platinum demand in 2012, whilst likely to be down in
Europe, will to some degree be offset by growth from
the USA, Japan and the rest of the world, especially
from higher metal loadings associated with tighter
emissions already affecting new heavy duty vehicles
in USA and Japan.
Palladium substitution for platinum in light duty diesel
catalysts continues steadily. However, there are more
than six million heavy duty on-road and all types of
non-road diesel engines scheduled to be affected by
the roll out of tighter emissions regulations of which
most will require a platinum-rich catalyst after
treatment system. [ 24] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2012 Key Performance Indicators
Solid performance
in a tough year
Sales – Platinum
Ounces Sold
Underlying EBIT
(Earnings Before
Interest and Taxation)
Free Cash Flow Lonmin Costs
– C1 Costs of own
Production 
620
640
660
680
700
720
740
08 09 10
Financial year
Ounces (000's)
11 12
727
683
706
721
702
-200
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
08 09 10
Financial year
US$m
11 12
963
-93
228
311
67
-380
-285
-190
-95
0
95
190
285
380
08 09 10
Financial year
US$m
11 12
264
-271
-203
210
-159
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
7,000
8,000
9,000
08 09 10
Financial year
Rand per PGM oz produced
11 12
6,271
6,630 6,773
7,534
8,507
702
Ounces (000’s)
Platinum ounces sold are
those ounces we produce
either as refined ounces or
recoverable ounces sold in
concentrate.
67
US$m
For any business the ultimate
aim is to grow underlying
EBIT and deliver value to
shareholders. We track our
performance by looking at
our EBIT from continuing
operations. Underlying EBIT
is calculated on profit for the
year and excludes the effect of
one-off and non-trading items.
-159
US$m
We believe that a key metric
of how successful we are as
a business is ultimately the
amount of cash we generate
before dividends and
acquisitions.
8,507
Rand per PGM oz
produced
Cost per unit is key to allowing
us to operate profitably for far
longer through any down
cycle. C1 costs are defined
as cash operating costs per
PGM ounce produced.
Performance against guidance
was adversely affected by
uncharacteristically high
Section 54 safety stoppages
in the first half of the financial
year and the Events at
Marikana in the second half.
The decline in profitability
reflects deteriorating PGM
prices and lower volumes
due to production disruptions
partially offset by the effects
of the weaker Rand.
Reduced operating profits,
partially offset by improved
working capital changes on
the back of a reduction in
closing stocks as well as
proceeds from the forward
sale of gold have resulted in
negative free cash flow after
capital expenditure and
dividend payments.
Above inflation cost
escalations exacerbated by
production disruptions have
resulted in a 12.9% increase in
unit costs. However the Events
at Marikana distorted the result
for this year. On a normalised
basis unit costs would have
increased by 5.2%. Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 25] 2012 Key Performance Indicators
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Development –
Immediately Available
Ore Reserves
PGM Instantaneous
Recovery Rate
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
08 09 10
Financial year
Centares (000,000's)
11 12
1.7
2.0
2.7
2.9
3.3
0
20
40
60
80
100
08 09 10
Financial year
Recovery (%)
11 12
72.4
70.4
79.1
82.5 82.4
3.3
Centares (000,000’s)
We have placed a renewed
focus on mine development,
using a metric of immediately
available ore reserves in square
metres or centares. In 2009
we changed our reporting
methodology for ore reserve
development, in line with
industry best practice, to
exclude partially developed
ore reserves. We have reported
on this basis since then.
82.4
Recovery (%)
The instantaneous recovery
rate is the product of the
recoveries achieved at each
step of the processing cycle
and measures the efficiencies
in the recovery of metals.
Our immediately available
ore reserves at our Marikana
operations were 13.5% higher
than last year. This level of
preparedness allows us to
plan our future growth with
confidence.
We have seen a consolidation
of the steady improvements
in the PGM instantaneous
recovery rate achieved
consistently since 2009.
Safety – Lost Time
Injury Frequency
Rate per Million man
Hours Worked
Electricity Efficiency
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
08 09 10
Financial year
Per million hours worked
11 12
6.27 6.21
5.87
4.71
4.16
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
08 09 10
Financial year
Gigajoules per PGM oz
11 12
4.92
5.31
4.73
4.52
4.77
4.16
Per million hours worked
As a Company we are
committed to Zero Harm
to our employees and
contractors. We also regard
safety performance as a lead
indicator of the health of any
business. Lost Time Injury
Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is
measured per million man
hours worked and reflects 
all injuries sustained by
employees which mean that
the injured party is unable to
return to work on the next shift.
4.77
Gigajoules per PGM oz
We continue to closely monitor
and measure our electricity
usage and efficency. We are
running a number of initiatives
across our operations to
ensure energy efficiency levels
are improved.
The LTIFR continues to
improve with a further 11.7%
improvement in 2012.
Energy per unit of production
increased by 5.5% to 4.77
compared to the prior year
period. This can be ascribed
to our chrome plants and
increased activities at K4 shaft.
Performance Definition Comment
“Our immediately
available ore reserves
at our Marikana
operations were 13.5%
higher than last year.” [ 26] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Transformation and
Sustainability Overview
At Lonmin we aim to entrench
sustainable development
throughout our value chain
It guides our relationships with our many and varied
stakeholders. Our approach is about finding the
balance between financial and social value creation.
We believe that sustainable development is paramount
to the future of the Company, our employees and the
communities in which we operate. We are able to
contribute to the creation of sustainable value not only
through our products, but also through our approach
to the development of the people and communities
that host our operations. We believe that ours is a
journey, and that there is much that we still need to
learn and implement. The devastating Events of
August and September 2012 at our Marikana
operations have resulted in much reflection, as well
as a renewed determination to accelerate progress
on our sustainability journey.
This year we have made use of a number of formal
reports to communicate how we are investing in our
employees and the surrounding communities in order
to demonstrate the implications of the recent events:
• This review provides a synopsis of our sustainability
performance.
• A Summary Sustainable Development Report that
provides an overview of the most current material
issues Lonmin faces.
• A more extensive online Sustainable Development
report, providing comprehensive and detailed
information on our transformation and sustainability
performance.
Our social licence
The Board supports the view that delivering on our
transformation and social responsibility obligations
are an essential element of the Company’s licence
to operate in South Africa, both legally in terms of its
commitments under the Mining Charter and more
importantly as a good corporate citizen of the country.
We have set transformation goals which were
established in line with the Mining Charter and are
aligned to our Social Labour Plan (SLP) commitments.
We recognise that we have delivered more slowly in
some areas than in others and need to accelerate our
efforts working more closely and cooperatively with
key stakeholders.
Lonmin respects the rights of its employees to
freedom of association and union representation if
they so choose. Recognised trade unions negotiate
terms and conditions of employment on behalf of their
members with a particular focus on wage increases.
The Company conducts collective bargaining with
unions it knows to represent more than 50% of the
relevant workforce. A union with over 33% membership
is eligible for partial recognition. A recognition agreement
confirms that the employer accepts the trade union
as a bargaining agent. Within the agreements the
rules of engagement and the rights of the employer
are stipulated. As at 30 September, 80.8% of our
employees were members of a recognised union or
covered by an agency shop agreement (2011: 55.5%).
What we believe
We believe that we can make a difference. We believe that, through our resources, our
skilled and committed teams, and our partners, we have the capacity to create long-lasting
value for all our stakeholders. Supporting these beliefs are the following three pillars:
These three pillars provide the framework for understanding the complex sustainability
aspects within our environment and their interconnectedness. We use the Five Capital
Model to underpin this understanding, and to indicate the different types of capital used
to deliver products and services within Lonmin. These include; social, human, natural,
financial and manufactured capital.
PEOPLE PLANET PROFIT 52% 21%
1%
3%
4%
19% NUM
AMCU
CEPPWAW Union
Solidarity
UASA
No Union
Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 27] Transformation and
Sustainability Overview
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
The Farlam Judicial Commission of Inquiry on the
Marikana tragedy began in the first week of October and
its outcomes are expected to guide our approach to
collective bargaining.
We have focused our efforts to maintain our social licence
on the following areas during the year:
• Stakeholder engagement
• Human rights
• Transformation, comprising of employee
development, housing and community investment
• Safety
• Health
• Creating value
However we also believe that we have a responsibility to
minimises the environmental impacts of our operations
to an absolute minimum, and we achieve this through
resource management and efficiency, and the successful
mitigation of environmental impacts. Our environmental
overview is provided on page 54.
Stakeholder Engagement
Regular and transparent engagement with our
stakeholders is a fundamental aspect of our Sustainable
Development Strategy.
Our stakeholders are those individuals and groups, formal
and informal, who affect or are affected by Lonmin’s
decisions and activities. We also take the needs
communicated by our interested and affected parties into
account as well as those groups not directly affected by
Lonmin, but who may have indirect interests in or influence
on our business. Our stakeholders include our shareholders
and potential investors, our employees, local communities,
contractors, unions, municipalities, various provincial and
local government departments, non-governmental
organisations, inter-governmental departments, business
partners, suppliers, customers, and the media.
While our respective engagement methods vary for
different stakeholders, they are all governed by the
approach set out in our Stakeholder Engagement
Protocol, which is currently being reviewed and updated.
Due to the recent events we believe this review is required
to better equip us to understand our stakeholders.
The review process is ongoing and we have set out to
address four critical questions:
1. Which stakeholders are most relevant to Lonmin?
2. What are the issues that matter to those
stakeholders?
3. How influential and visible are these stakeholders?
4. How do we best engage with these stakeholders?
The events at Marikana and the recent strikes across the
industry accelerated our efforts to seek more effective
stakeholder engagement. We have developed scenarios
that give consideration to those challenges that we are
facing. Industry negotiations around a centralised
bargaining forum have commenced and we are playing
our part.
Human Rights
We believe in the importance of internalising internationally
recognised standards of human rights. We believe that the
policies and practices in place at our operations fully
reflect the legislative requirements of South Africa,
including the Bill of Rights contained in the South African
Constitution, together with the Companies Act in the
United Kingdom, where we have our primary listing.
Our Human Rights Policy was developed in line with these
principles to assist the Company in its goal of upholding
international human rights through all of its dealings and
operations. As stated in our policy we record and report
any credible allegations of human rights abuses by public
or private security within our area of operations to the
appropriate authorities, and where necessary we will
monitor investigations to completion and ensure actions
are taken to prevent reoccurrences.
Training on human rights and business ethics is included
in our induction programme and in our annual refresher
course in which all employees participate. We also provide
an Ethics Hotline, a phone-in service available to anyone
involved in our operations. The service is provided by an
independent third party and is a secure and anonymous
channel that can be used to report any conduct of
concern in the Company.
Our security services are aligned with the relevant national
legislation and the United Nations basic Principles on the
Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials.
Lonmin has a security code of conduct, which governs
the actions of our security staff. Training for all employees
and contractors in these roles include dedicated modules
on human rights and is set according to the South African
Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority.
Transformation
We have worked with determination to accomplish the
goals we set ourselves on transformation and made
significant achievements in many areas, notably in our
education programmes for our communities and in the
number of Historically Disadvantaged South African (HDSA)
employees within our management structures which stands
at 36% (excluding white women) and in our initiatives to
procure from HDSA managed and owned suppliers. Our
gender related policies and procedures designed to
increase the participation of women in the Company have
had some success, with the number of women at the
Company having grown by 9.4% from last year.
We remain committed to an appropriately skilled and
diverse workforce as the foundation to the success of 
our business. Our success is dependent on our ability to
support our existing employees and for it to be more than
compliance. We aim to attract and retain our employees,
develop them as leaders and invest in the transformation
of our Company to be more representative of HDSAs. 
We provide more information on employee development
on page 50.
Trade union membership – as at 30 Sept 2012 [ 28] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Transformation and
Sustainability Overview
Because transformation is such a critical component
of our licence to operate, the Board established a
Transformation Committee to review the progress we
are making in this area to ensure that the Company
meets or exceeds its commitments and obligations
in relation to transformation. Our Board Committees
are discussed on page 61.
Two particular areas of focus are housing and our
relationship with our communities.
Community
We believe in the contribution to long-term social,
economic and infrastructural development in the
sustainability of our operations, and that of the people
affected by our activities. Securing our social licence
to operate is much more than achieving compliance
to operate within current and future regulatory
environments. It is the implicit and explicit acceptance
or approval granted and, indeed, earned by the
Company from local communities and other
stakeholders. We know we need to engage with
communities on an ongoing basis to ensure the
continuation of social licence. Lonmin’s community
investment programme reflects that our SLP
community commitments are a response to some
of these challenges. We have invested around
R176 million in this since 2007. In addition, to the
investment in the SLP community projects the
Company also invested in additional community
projects that are not covered in the current SLP
commitments. We have a holistic approach to
community investment and focus on community
education, community health and local economic
development. Details of these projects are discussed
on page 51.
Housing and Living Conditions
Addressing the critical shortage of affordable housing
in our regions of operation, particularly around
Marikana, is a multi-faceted challenge that requires
careful consideration and the support and co-operation
of both regional and national government.
We have committed to providing all employees with
accommodation options that are affordable and
secure and that allow for decent standards of living.
The living conditions of our employees have a direct
influence on their general wellbeing and on their ability
to succeed in their working environments. Achieving
this ambition though is likely to be costly and time
consuming, and is not something that Lonmin will be
able to achieve in isolation.
The challenges we face are to facilitate the provision
of mass affordable employee accommodation for our
workforce, to find available and suitable land on our
property, shortage of water and electricity, to deal with
increased pressure on basic services and to tackle the
lack of interest in home ownership.
Our housing strategy aims to address these challenges
and comprises three elements: transforming existing
structures, affordable housing and the long-term
housing programme.
Transforming existing structures
Lonmin has four existing hostels: Karee, Wonderkop,
Eastern Platinum and Middlekraal, comprising 146
blocks, all of which are currently undergoing conversion
to either single or family unit accommodation. Of
these 146 blocks, we converted 18 prior to 2006.
In alignment with the SLP housing commitments we
aim to convert all our remaining hostels (128 blocks)
into single units and family units by 2014. To date we
have converted 79 of the 128 old style hostels into
single and family units.
We aim to complete the programme of converting all
existing hostel blocks and then to investigate the
option of erecting new units in the open spaces in the
immediate vicinity of the converted blocks, making
effective use of the resources and assets already
available to us.
Affordable housing
In 1998, the Marikana Housing Development Corporation
(MHDC) was set up to build houses in the area of
Marikana Extension 1 to sell or rent to employees and
to members of the community. This has had the added
benefit of providing contracts and opportunities to
community based suppliers, where possible, and has
contributed to the general socio-economic development
of the region. Lonmin also provides financial advice and
assistance with loans and rent-to-buy options, to
encourage home ownership, although the uptake here
has been less than satisfactory. Of the 1,149 homes that
we have built to date, only 242 have been sold.
Long-term housing programme
Housing alone does not provide an integrated solution
for longer term sustainability and it is government policy
to transform the country’s residential areas and build
communities with closer access to work and social
amenities. There has been a fundamental shift in the
approach to housing in South Africa. A redirection of
policy was brought about in 2004, through the
Comprehensive Plan for the Development of Sustainable
Human Settlement, commonly known as ‘Breaking New
Ground’. The key objectives of this plan are the promotion
of densification and the provision of social and community
services in combination with residential developments,
in order to build spatially, economically and socially
sustainable communities.
A pilot project along this theme is already under
development in Marikana Extension 2 and progress will
be reported in 2013. Of the 863 serviced stands that
belong to the MHDC, 17 have been rezoned for the
erection of five apartment blocks.
Living out allowance
Initially aimed at encouraging employees to exit hostels
and to take responsibility for their own accommodation, a
living out allowance was introduced at Lonmin and indeed
across the industry. The living out allowance has also
been a fixed agenda item for annual wage negotiations.
This allowance was set at R1,850 (US$230) per month.
With this allowance, employees may elect to seek their
own accommodation, including the newly converted Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 29] Transformation and
Sustainability Overview
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
hostel units for families and single accommodation,
if available. It is estimated that rental at the informal
settlements are market related, ranging from approximately
R200 (US$25) to R1,200 (US$149) per month. The rental
at our converted units is at an average of R350 (US$43)
per month for both family and single accommodation and
has not been increased for five years. The former excludes
water, lights and transport, and the latter is inclusive of
these costs. While this payment has proved to be a popular
option, better regulation is required to ensure that the
allowance is indeed spent on adequate accommodation
that is in line with the minimum living standards we are trying
to achieve for our employees. We are investigating options
to train employees on personal financial management
as well as to improve employees understanding about
this allowance.
Safety
Safety is a priority in everything we do and we continue to
work on improving our performance. It is with deep regret
that we report the deaths of two employees at work
during the year. We extend our condolences to their
families and colleagues. On a more positive side we
have achieved the lowest Lost time Injury Frequency Rate
(LTIFR) amongst the primary producers in the South African
platinum industry of 4.16 per million man hours worked,
11.7% lower than the 4.71 in 2011.
We support the government’s commitment to enforcing
mine safety legislation. This year Lonmin was issued with 37
Section 54 notifications from the Department of Mineral
Resources (2011: 27). Our safety achievements are
covered comprehensively in our Operational Review, though
increased interaction between the Chief inspector of Mines
and discussions with the Minister of Mineral Resources have
helped our understanding of increased monitoring efforts by
the DMR. More information is provided on pages 49 and 50.
Health
We are committed to honouring our health and safety
values and sustaining an environment that promotes the
health and wellbeing of our employees and contractors.
Our workplace health programmes are aligned with our
goal of zero harm to people, and include not only
management and treatment programmes, but also
prevention programmes.
We offer employees and their registered dependents
comprehensive healthcare through our medical services
unit, delivering cost-effective quality healthcare and a
comprehensive workplace disease management
programme. Our Health Department is responsible for
healthcare delivery, occupational health and hygiene
policies, standards, monitoring and auditing. Line
management is responsible for maintaining occupational
health and hygiene standards in the workplace. On page 53
we provide further information on our health programmes.
Creating Value
Mining plays an important and positive role in our national and indeed regional economies, particularly in contributing 
to broad based economic development and poverty alleviation. Our value-added statement below demonstrates the
Company’s contribution to the creation of wealth, and the resulting rewards disbursed to labour, capital and the state.
Value-added statement for year ended 30 September 2012
2012 2011 Variance
$m $m %
Net Cash Generated
Customers, consumers and investment income
Cash received for products 1,663 2,226 (25)%
Cash returns on investment 4 3 33%
Suppliers
1
Cash payments for materials and services purchased (690) (641) 8%
Cost of borrowings (31) (39) (21)%
Net cash flows 946 1,549 (39)%
Cash Distributed
Human capital (salaries & benefits) 755 796 (5)%
Social capital 10.0 8.8 14%
Donations 0.4 1.1 (64)%
Other community projects
2
9.6 7.7 25%
Government taxes 30 40 (25)%
Directors remuneration 4 7 (43)%
Shareholders distribution 31 30 3%
Cash retained for sustainable growth 116 667 (83)%
Net cash distributed 946 1,549 (39)%
1 We have a 30 day payment policy on services and procurement
2 Inclusive of salary and administrative costs
Our Preferential Procurement Strategy is aimed at BEE and supplier development. We have aligned our targets for
preferential procurement in our supply chain to that of the Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the
South African Mining Industry. When the Mining Charter was revised in September 2010, it increased the empowerment
requirements for qualification as a black owned entity. The implementation of these new requirements resulted in our
measured expenditure declining from 69.7% in 2010 to 34.5% in 2011. Pleasingly, this year preferential procurement spent
on capital goods was 50.43%, 63.74% of services and 54.2% of consumables. 0
600
1,200
1,800
2,400
3,000
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
08 09 10
Financial year
Patients on anti-retroviral treatment (ART)
VCT
Number of patients
11 12
Patients on Wellness programme
Voluntary counselling and testing (VCT)
Health and well-being
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
08 09 10
Financial year
HDSAs (including white women) in management
% Women
% HDSA in management
11 12
42.3
41.3
43.3
46.5
49.4
Women at mining
Transformation performance (%)
Year at a glance
• Tragic events at Marikana claimed the
lives of 46 people
• Two fatalities at work (2011: 6)
• 79 hostel blocks converted to date,
creating 937 single units and 695 family
units*
• R89 million (US$11 million) spent on
hostel conversions in 2012
• 36,523 people employed at end
September 2012: 28,230 permanent
employees and 10,000 contractors
• R200 million (US$23 million) spent on
training and development 3.6% of payroll
• R3,960 million (US$408 million) capital
expenditure in 2012 (2011: R2,907 million)
• HDSA in management, including white
women, make up 49.4%
• Women represent 8.15% of our
workforce, with women making up 5.11%
of core mining positions
• Lonmin Renewal Plan developed,
including approach to social licence
* These figures represent the period 2008 – 2012.
[ 30] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Year at a glance
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
08 09 10
Financial year
LTIFR 
Fatalities
LTIFR
11 12
6.27
6.21
5.87
4.71
4.16
Fatalities
Safety performance 02 / 
      Directors’ Report – Business Review
     
 32  Operational Review
 39  Financial Review
 45  Internal Controls and Risk Management
 49  Sustainability Review
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information “Operationally, 2012 has been an encouraging year in
which we have reaped the benefits of the operational
turnaround we undertook in 2009 and 2010.”
Focus on operational
efficiencies
[ 32] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operational Review
Our performance in 2012 was impacted in the first half
of the year by uncharacteristically high Section 54
safety stoppages which were a feature across the
platinum industry. In the second half of the year the
tragic and violent events that occurred in August and
September at our Marikana operations are forever
etched in our collective memory as we witnessed the
loss of so many lives. The Company, however,
managed to deliver some positive operational results
despite these significant challenges.
“Events at Marikana”
On 10 August 2012, approximately 3,000 rock drill
operators employed by Lonmin commenced an
unlawful work stoppage and protest march at the
Company’s Marikana mine operations. This was
followed by significant levels of violent intimidation of
non-striking workers, with eight employees, including
two security guards as well as two policemen, killed
in the initial days of the unlawful work stoppage. As a
result, in subsequent days the vast majority of the
24,000 mine workers were absent from work and it
was no longer possible to maintain production.
Tragically the violence and unrest escalated materially
throughout that week and in total 46 people, including
40 Lonmin employees, lost their lives.
The Board was deeply saddened by the violent unrest
which took place during this time and continues to
express its profound sympathy to those affected,
including the families, friends and colleagues of those
who died. The Company, with its partner Shanduka
Group (Proprietary) Limited (Shanduka), has
committed to establish and contribute to a Memorial
Fund for the benefit of the families of the deceased,
the central purpose of which is to fund the education
of their children.
The Company then worked resolutely to resolve the
tensions within the various factions of the workforce in
order to create an environment where a return to work
was possible. We refer to this tragic series of events
as the “Events at Marikana”.
On 18 September 2012, following an all-inclusive
negotiation process facilitated by the Commission
for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA)
involving the Company, trade unions, the South
African Council of Churches, the Department of
Mineral Resources, the Department of Labour and
delegates of striking employees, an addendum to
the existing wage agreement was signed by the
Company, the National Union of Mineworkers, the
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union,
Solidarity, the United Association of South Africa and
representatives of the delegates of striking employees,
which agreed on a return to work with effect from
20 September 2012.
On 20 September 2012, 81.4% of Lonmin’s employees
returned to work and the initial focus of the Company
was to ensure a safe resumption of production. As a
result it was not until 1 October 2012 that the normal
mine shift pattern was re-established and blasting
across the property restarted. Since then employee
attendance has continued at high levels, with normal
shift patterns and in the week ended 26 October 2012,
attendance averaged 93.1%, which is regarded by
the Board as a normal level for Lonmin’s business,
due to scheduled leave, sickness and other reasons
for absence. All concentrators are now in production,
except for the Number One UG2 plant, which is down
for a planned upgrade. The Number One and Number
Two smelters are fully operational, as are the Base
Metals Refinery and the Precious Metals Refinery. The
first Platinum ounces were turned out on 31 October.
Farlam Commission of Inquiry
The rapid escalation of public disorder and subsequent
intervention by law enforcement, accompanied with
the loss of so many lives resulted in the President of
the Republic of South Africa, Mr Jacob Zuma,
announcing a Judicial Commission of Inquiry to
investigate the events that led up to the wide scale
tragedy. The Judicial Commission is being led by
retired Judge Farlam. Lonmin welcomes this Judicial
Commission of Inquiry and is co-operating fully with it. 0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
08 07 06 05 09 10
LTIFR per million man-hours worked
LTI
LTIFR
11 12
6.27
10.80
12.50
18.1
6.21
5.87
4.71
4.16
LTI
Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 33] Operational Review
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
12 Months Rolling Average
The Inquiry will look into the following in relation to
Lonmin:
• whether Lonmin exercised its best endeavors
to resolve any disputes which may have arisen
between Lonmin and its labour force on the one
hand and generally among its labour force on the
other;
• whether Lonmin responded appropriately to the
threat and outbreak of violence which occurred
at its premises;
• whether the Company, by act or omission,
created an environment which was conducive to
the creation of tension, labour unrest, disunity
among its employees or other harmful conduct;
and
• whether it employed sufficient safeguards and
measures to ensure the safety of its employees
and property and the prevention of the outbreak
of violence between any parties.
The Commission will also examine Lonmin policies
generally, including the procedure, practices and
conduct relating to its employees and organised labour.
It will also investigate whether by act or omission, the
Company directly or indirectly caused loss of life or
damage to persons or property.
It is not expected that the Commission will report
before February 2013.
Safety
Performance Overview
The safety of our people is an integral part of how we
conduct our core business and is a priority.
We are thus saddened by the loss of two lives during
the course of our mining operations, and extend our
deepest condolences to the families of Mr Albino
Moises Cuna and Mr Thobibisani David Didi. We have
however made progress on our journey to achieving
zero harm. Significant effort has gone into identifying
key learnings from these incidents and implementing
corrective action to mitigate the reoccurrence of such
events. This includes the adaptation and revision of
systems, procedures and standards.
During the past three years Lonmin’s safety results
have been impressive, having recorded, compared to
its peers, the lowest industry Fatality Frequency rate.
This year has also been no exception, where once
again Lonmin is an industry leader, on a comparative
basis, recording the lowest Lost Time Injury Frequency
Rate (LTIFR) in the platinum industry of 4.16 per million
man hours worked (11.7% improvement compared
to the prior year). This puts us in a good position to
achieve the 2013 Department of Mineral Resources
(DMR) fatality rate milestones.
Whilst improvements arose in mining the Process
Division also reflected a significant improvement in
both the LTIFR and Medical Treatment Case
Frequency Rate for 2012.
There were a number of factors behind this overall
improvement in safety. It required attention to all
three key objectives in our strategy, namely fatality
prevention, injury prevention and safe production
culture. Also the effort and collaboration between
operations and service departments helped deliver
the much improved results. We also undertook a
number of initiatives in the year. 0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
08 09 10
Financial year
millions
11 12
10.2 10.2
10.8
11.0
9.8
Marikana UG
Marikana OC
JV OC Limpopo
JV UG
12.5
10.8
11.3
11.7
10.4
Total Tonnes Mined – Annual Trend
[ 34] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operational Review
Initiatives
Our investigation methodology, Incident Cause
Analysis Methodology (ICAM), has been reviewed and
formalised to align with the Culture Transformation
Framework requirements for risk management. A
simplified tool has been developed and adopted by
the business, which will also facilitate a more effective
environment for knowledge sharing. Actions resulting
from ICAM investigations on injuries as well as Section
54 or 55 stoppages are managed and monitored via
the TeamMate software application, which has already
proved to be very successful in the tracking control
points raised by internal and external auditors.
In addition, there is always a need for us to
continuously improve the levels of safety knowledge
and awareness amongst our leadership teams.
Consequently, a team of our executive management
and senior leaders attended international best practice
training in this area. The greater knowledge and skills
gained are evident as demonstrated by the improved
communication processes which have helped
increase safety awareness amongst all employees.
Tactical teams headed up by Vice Presidents were
established for Leadership, Simple Systems, Enabling
Environment and Safe Production Culture, to facilitate
and manage certain projects and initiatives to generate
and maintain momentum within the safety programme.
The projects and initiatives from these teams were
intertwined within the 15 Lonmin sustainable
development standards and will grow from this platform.
Fatal Risk Control Protocols (FRCP) were successfully
rolled out across the operations. The relevant and
critical FRCP per division were identified and
repackaged as easily understandable critical
behaviours for each of the Lonmin Life Rules, via
various communication mediums. Safe and At Risk
behaviours are also monitored, and the results used
to direct Visible Felt Leadership (VFL) programmes.
Mining Division
Total tonnes mined during the 2012 financial year
were 10.4 million, a 1.3 million tonnes decrease
from 2011. The decreased performance is largely
attributable to the Events at Marikana. Productivity
in the first half of the year was impacted by the
uncharacteristically high Section 54 safety stoppages
that were seen across the South African platinum
industry during this period, as well as labour and
community unrest and Management Induced Safety
Stoppages (MISS).
The total tonnes lost during the financial year
associated with MISS, Section 54s and illegal
industrial actions / community unrest is estimated
to be around 2.4 million tonnes with the Events at
Marikana contributing around 1.8 million tonnes,
equivalent to 110,000 mined Platinum ounces, and
0.5 million tonnes as a result of Section 54’s and MISS.
Finally, Lonmin implemented a Contractor Safety
Management Framework. This framework set the
basis for industry collaboration through standardisation
and reciprocity opportunities. The Lonmin Contractor
Safety Management framework covers all aspects of
contractor utilisation from pre-qualification to closure.
Acknowledgements
• The South African Association of Mine Managers
recognised Lonmin during its annual safety
awards function held in 2012 as having won a
majority of the industry safety awards on offer.
The same awards were won in 2011.
• Mine Safe 2012 recognised Lonmin’s safety
record, as being the most improved amongst its
peers.
• Lonmin’s 1B/4B Mine received the prestigious
JT Ryan award, which is an international award
for the safest mine in South Africa.
• Lonmin’s Rowland shaft achieved a world record
13 million Fall of Ground Fatality free shifts.
• Lonmin Mining has on two occasions achieved
6 million Fatality free shifts. No other comparable
mining company has achieved this.
• Lonmin Mining has achieved 12 million Fall of
Ground Fatality free shifts. No other comparable
mining company has achieved this.
Summary
Whilst we are proud of our achievements so far we
are well aware of the journey ahead of us to realise
our vision of zero harm. We believe that the various
initiatives being undertaken will help enable us to
ultimately achieve our goal. What remains clear
however is that collaboration with all stakeholders,
internal and external, will remain a critical factor as
we approach the milestone of zero harm. Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
’000
Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Aug Sep Jul
FY11 FY12
Total Tonnes Mined – Monthly Trend
[ 35] Operational Review
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Marikana Ore Reserves
FY12 FY11
(’000m
2
) (’000m
2
) Variance %
Karee 1,808 1,437 371 25.8%
Middelkraal 466 385 81 21.0%
Westerns 581 576 5 0.9%
Easterns 472 533 (61) (11.4)%
Total 3,327 2,931 396 13.5%
We delivered a good performance with respect to
development as the ore reserve position increased
overall by 13.5% from the level reported in 2011.
The ore reserve increase for Karee of 25.8% and
Middelkraal of 21.0% are aligned with Lonmin’s
strategy of creating greater flexibility in these shafts.
The Easterns operations decreased as planned.
Mining grades as delivered to the concentrators
increased slightly in comparison to 2011 due to:
• higher underground Merensky mining grade;
• slight improvement in stoping dilution;
• unchanged underground UG2 grade;
• constant ratio of UG2 to Merensky ore; 
• constant ratio of developing to stoping tonnes;
• lower proportion of Merensky opencast ore; and
• significantly improved opencast grade.
Business Improvement Initiatives
A number of initiatives are in place to support improved
delivery and increased productivity in the Mining
Division. These include:
• the “Line of Sight” management system to track
production on a daily basis is embedded in all the
operations and is starting to bear fruit in allowing
early identification of technical bottlenecks, lost
blast analysis and improved productivity; 
• the team effectiveness programme has
commenced and half of the operations’
employees went through the programme, the
initial productivity results specifically at the Karee
operations are encouraging;
• technical up skilling of lower level operational
employees; and
• relationships with the DMR continue to improve
as a result of various safety initiatives implemented
across the operations resulting in the best in
industry LTIFR.
The inflationary cost pressures being experienced by
the industry continue to be of great concern and so
productivity improvement programmes, as noted
above, are critical in helping mitigate these pressures.
Overview of Marikana Mines
Karee
In 2012 the Karee operations, K3, 1B, 4B and K4,
mined 4.4 million tonnes which represents a decrease
of 1.2%, or 54,000 tonnes from 2011. This is largely
as a result of the Events at Marikana with losses
estimated to be 706,000 tonnes. The mining grade
has decreased as a result of reduced in-situ grades in
the UG2 reef. Unit cost per tonne increased by 12%
to R640 per tonne due to the Events at Marikana.
Westerns
Production from our Westerns operations, Rowland,
W1 and Newman, at 2.6 million tonnes declined by
23.0%, or 791,000 tonnes from 2011 with the
depletion of Newman shaft as expected and the
Events at Marikana which had an estimated impact
of 460,000 tonnes. Additional dilution resulting from
adverse ground conditions on Rowland shaft and a
decrease in the in-situ grade negatively impacted
shaft head grade resulting in a 4.6% decrease on
the 2011 figures. The reduced production resulted
in the unit cost per tonne increasing by 26% to
R681 per tonne.
Middelkraal
In 2012 the Middelkraal operations, Saffy (conventional)
and Hossy (mechanised / hybrid) mined 1.8 million
tonnes which represents a decrease of 7.5%, or
142,000 tonnes from 2011. Production losses
emanating from the Events at Marikana are estimated
to be 333,000 tonnes. Grade was negatively impacted
by the higher ratio of development ore versus stoping
ore. Unit cost per tonne increased to R837 per tonne,
or 13% as the operations struggled to meet increased
production targets mainly due to the Events at
Marikana.
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
K4
K3
4B
Newman
Rowland
Hossy
Saffy
E1
E2
E3
Average 78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
08 09 10
Financial year
%
11 12
81.7
81.0
84.8
85.4
86.1
Underground Concentrator Recoveries
[ 36] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operational Review
Saffy’s production was significantly impacted during
2012 by adverse ground conditions. The production
delays experienced during the year have been
addressed by means of changes in layout designs as
well as a revision to the support strategy. The increase
in ore reserve availability and the planned build-up of
stoping crews will give the shaft the necessary flexibility
to deliver planned production increases in 2013.
Hossy increased tonnes hoisted from 793,000 tonnes
to 864,000 tonnes during 2012 notwithstanding the
Events at Marikana. The biggest challenges that
continue to be faced by the mechanised mining team
centre around machine reliability, the availability of
replacement parts and the supply of trained artisans.
The decision taken to introduce hybrid mining in some
upper quadrants resulted in the increased production.
Easterns
At our Easterns operations performance for the year
decreased from 1.2 million tonnes in 2011 to 1.0 million
tonnes. In 2012 E3 and E2 shafts were impacted by
Section 54s in December 2011 and July 2012 as well
as the Events at Marikana which had an estimated
impact on production of 164,000 tonnes. The unit
costs at R643 per tonne showed an 11% year on
year increase.
Opencast
Production at the Merensky opencast operation at
Marikana decreased from 601,000 tonnes in 2011 to
443,000 tonnes in 2012. Grade improved significantly
(by 34.8%) as a result of the change in mining method
and sequence of mining.
Pandora Joint Venture
2012 2011 Variance
Attributable production
(’000 tonnes) 185 168 10.3%
Saleable metal in
concentrate
(oz PGMs) 58,188 48,199 20.7%
The capital expansion plan relating to 9 and 10 levels
progressed well with level 9 moving into production
during April 2012 and a further build-up in production
is scheduled for the 2013 financial year.
The studies on additional expansion projects have
been deferred by two years due to the current
economic situation and have been agreed with our
Joint Venture (JV) partner Anglo American Platinum
Limited.
Capital Expenditure
Capital expenditure in the Mining Division was
$269 million during 2012 of which around $20 million
related to the change in the accounting policy to
capitalise deferred stripping associated with opencast
mining. The majority of the remaining capital was spent
developing ore reserves at K4, K3, Saffy and Hossy.
Process Division
The Process Division produced 687,372 ounces of
refined Platinum compared to 731,273 ounces in
2011. This represents a decrease of 6.0% which is
primarily attributable to the Events at Marikana.
Unit costs 2012 2011 Variance
Processing R872/oz R830/oz (5%)
Cost management and control received the highest
focus over the period particularly due to above
Consumer Price Index increases associated with
labour costs, chemicals, power and water.
Before and during the Events at Marikana the Process
Division embarked on cash conservation measures as
well as various cost improvement measures due to the
reduced throughput from mining. These improvement
measures will continue during 2013 together with our
other continuous improvement projects.
Concentrators
2012 proved to be another exceptional year in terms
of recoveries achieved. This can be attributed to the
Eastern’s tailings treatment plant coming on line in
April 2012. Additional recovery improvements are
planned for 2013 as the concentrators continue on
their journey of technology and operational excellence. 4.3
4.4
4.5
4.6
4.7
4.8
08 09 10
Financial year
g/t
11 12
4.66
4.57
4.67
4.54
4.56
Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 37] Operational Review
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Plant running times continued to improve during
2012 and the overall concentrator running time has
increased to 92.8% in 2012 from 91.4% in 2011. The
concentrators are targeting a 0.5% uplift in running
time per year to ensure we equal and improve on the
previously best achieved during the period from 2003
to 2005.
The overall milled grade improved by 2.2% to 4.49g/t
when compared to the previous year largely due to
less opencast ore being treated and a 34.8% increase
in the opencast grade. The underground grade is
relatively flat with an improvement of 0.4% and
continues to be within the acceptable ranges.
Tailing Treatment and Chrome Plants
The Eastern’s tailings treatment plant was
commissioned and the first production started in
April 2012. This plant has achieved above planned
recoveries and throughput. All chrome plants were
operational for the period under review excluding the
strike period and sales increased to 1.2 million tonnes
compared to sales of 0.7 million tonnes in 2011.
Smelter
The smelter delivered a solid operational performance
with total tonnes smelted increasing by 0.6%
compared to 2011. The furnace availability increased
compared to 2011 due to improved operational and
maintenance practices. The Number Two furnace was
successfully commissioned and was handed over to
production on 21 June. After heat up the first slag was
tapped on 11 July and the first matte on 16 July. The
project was completed within the estimated budget.
Over the past year the new design and operational
discipline of the Number One furnace has proven to
be more robust, with no operational disruptions during
the reporting period.
Refineries
’000 oz 2012 2011 Variance
Platinum 687 731 (6.0)%
PGMs 1,350 1,447 (6.7)%
The refineries delivered a solid operational
performance, with increased product quality being
achieved at the Base Metal Refinery (BMR). Refined
production of PGMs decreased by 6.7% whilst
Platinum production decreased by 6.0%. This was as
a result of the Events at Marikana. The instantaneous
recoveries were maintained at prior year levels (82.4%).
Final metal sales for 2012 were 701,831 Platinum
ounces which reflects a decrease of 2.6% compared
to the prior period sales of 720,783 ounces and PGM
sales were 3.6% lower than the prior year at
1,383,945 PGM ounces, despite benefiting from the
depletion of stocks in the pipeline which resulted from
the Events at Marikana.
Capital Expenditure
Capital expenditure in the Process Division during
2012 was $121 million. The majority of this expenditure
was for the upgrading and capacity increase at the
Number One Shaft concentrator, the Number Two
furnace and the Easterns Tailing Treatment plant
which was commissioned during the year.
Unit Costs
Notwithstanding production losses associated with
the increased Section 54s during the first half of the
year, the improved cost control and productivity
measures implemented had a real effect and Lonmin
would have beaten its previously announced guidance
of an 8.5% unit cost increase. The unit cost increase
was however around 13% following the Events at
Marikana where Lonmin lost around 1.8 million tonnes
from the mining operations. When normalised and
taking cognisance of the production losses associated
with the strike the unit cost increase would have been
limited to around 5.2%.
Underground Milled Grade [ 38] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operational Review
Business Development
Limpopo
Shanduka delivered the Limpopo Feasibility Review
on 31 August 2012 which is currently being reviewed
by Lonmin. If the feasibility review is successful and
subject to the fulfilment of certain suspensive
conditions including Shanduka raising and
contributing R1.1 billion in funding towards the ramp
up and development of operations, Shanduka will
acquire control and operational management of the
operating entity.
Akanani
During the second half of the financial year we
completed a pre-feasibility study on the Akanani
exploration and evaluation asset. This study provided
an update on the results of the original concept study
undertaken at the time of acquisition. Based on the
results of this pre-feasibility study coupled with the
current and long-term PGM pricing outlook we have
taken the decision to impair the asset and reduced
the net carrying amount of this asset from $628 million
in 2011 to $162 million at 30 September 2012. We
continue to enhance our mining and processing
studies on this project and will make a decision during
2013 on further development.
BEE Equity Ownership
The Company is required to increase Historically
Disadvantaged South African (HDSA) ownership in its
prospecting and mining ventures by 31 December
2014 to the 26% required under the Mining Charter.
As at 30 September 2012, HDSA investors directly
and indirectly owned 18% of the share capital of the
Company’s subsidiaries that own and operate
Marikana and Limpopo and that participate in the
Pandora JV, as well as 26% of the share capital of
its subsidiary that owns Akanani.
Shanduka owns 50.03% of the Company’s Black
Economic Empowerment (BEE) partner, Incwala
Resources (Pty) Limited (Incwala). Other equity
investors in Incwala include a trust for the benefit of
community members, the Industrial Development
Corporation and Lonmin itself. In considering how
best to meet its HDSA ownership requirements by
31 December 2014, the Board believes that one
element it must consider is how to achieve further
HDSA ownership through a broad based solution as
this will ultimately be in the best interest of shareholders.
It is possible that the Company may wish to facilitate
the creation of trusts for the benefit of current and
future employees, and separately for members of the
Greater Lonmin Community, to which new shares
could be allotted for their sole economic benefit. In
order to achieve this increase in HDSA participation,
the Company is considering a range of options
involving the issuance of additional shares which
could dilute the interests of shareholders. The
Company has not yet finalised its proposals, and any
future transaction would need to be considered on its
merits and may require prior shareholder approval.
Exploration
International
Lonmin is exploring for PGM deposits around the
Sudbury Basin in Canada in JVs with Wallbridge
Mining Company Limited and Vale S.A. On the Vale
JV, Lonmin met its exploration earn-in commitment
in December 2011 for the right to earn a 50% interest
in low sulphide, PGM rich deposits on the properties
comprising the JV. Consultants Wardrop Tetra Tech
assisted in the completion of a positive pre-feasibility
study for a shallow open pit on the Denison 109 Zone
PGM mineralisation. The open pit design covers the top
95 metres of the deposit containing 456,275 tonnes
of ore at an average grade of 3.58g/t (52,500 ounces
Pt+Pd+Au).
Exploration mapping, geophysical surveys and drilling
continued to generate targets for follow up in the
coming year on our Canadian and Northern Ireland
properties.
South Africa
Western Platinum Limited carried out exploration
activities on a PGM-Nickel prospect on Vlakfontein,
and has defined shallow, drill ready targets. Lonmin
has a JV with Boynton in the eastern Bushveld. [ 39] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
Financial Review
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
“Subsequent to year end we embarked on significant
steps to strengthen our financial position.”
Building a flexible
capital structure
Overview
The Events at Marikana in August and September
of the 2012 financial year resulted in Lonmin being
unable to mine for seven weeks and that had a
significant impact on our financial results. Key in this
impact has been the reduction in the volume of
Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) produced and sold
while fixed production costs continued to be incurred
during the strike period which has had an adverse
effect on the Group’s profitability.
Prior to the Events at Marikana industrial demand for
PGMs had been subdued resulting in a depressed
pricing environment which was putting pressure on
revenues and margins. The supply side concerns
resulting from the strike action, which spread to others
in the industry, saw prices rebound during August and
September but this only benefited minimal inventory
and processing pipeline sales conducted during this
period in the absence of new production.
On the cost side we have separately accounted for
fixed production overheads incurred during the Events
at Marikana for which there was no associated
production output as well as additional costs arising
directly as a result of the strike action. These have been
disclosed as special costs to assist in understanding
the financial performance achieved by the Group on a
comparable basis with prior years. As a result our
underlying performance excludes the impact of the
strike action. Other than the impact of the strike,
movements in underlying costs were driven primarily
by above inflation wage and electricity tariff increases,
somewhat mitigated by favourable exchange
movements. The C1 unit cost per ounce produced
for 2012, including the impact of the strike action,
was 12.9% higher than 2011.
Capital expenditure for 2012 was $408 million. This
coupled with the loss made as a result of events
described above resulted in an increase in our net
debt position which was partially mitigated by the
prepaid sale of gold undertaken in the first half of the
financial year and the reduction in closing stocks
following the strike disruption. Our net debt position at
30 September 2012 amounted to $421 million. This
figure has increased significantly subsequent to year
end as we fund the production ramp up and enable
stock levels to be rebuilt through the production
pipeline. At 31 October 2012 net debt was
approximately $550 million.
Subsequent to year end we have embarked on
significant steps to strengthen our financial position.
The announcement of our results coincides with the
launch of a Rights Issue seeking to raise $817 million
before costs and foreign exchange charges. In
addition, the terms of our debt facilities will be revised
subject to a successful Rights Issue to provide greater
funding flexibility going forward. Details of the Rights
Issue and proposed amendments to debt facilities are
included below and in our Rights Issue Prospectus.
Income Statement
The $244 million movement between the underlying operating profit of $311 million for the year ended
30 September 2011 and that of $67 million for the year ended 30 September 2012 is analysed below. 
$m
Year to 30 September 2011 reported operating profit 307
Year to 30 September 2011 special items 4
Year to 30 September 2011 underlying operating profit 311
PGM price (325)
PGM volume (68)
PGM mix 42
Base metals (27)
Revenue changes (378)
Cost changes (including foreign exchange impact of $151 million) 134
Year to 30 September 2012 underlying operating profit 67
Year to 30 September 2012 special items (769)
Costs relating to illegal work stoppage 159
Impairment of Akanani exploration and evaluation asset 602
Other 8
Year to 30 September 2012 reported operating loss (702) [ 40] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Review
Revenue
Total revenue declined by $378 million from 2011 to
$1,614 million for the year ended 30 September 2012.
The PGM pricing environment during the year
deteriorated over the last year and the impact on the
average prices achieved on the key metals sold is
shown below:
Year ended Year ended
30.09.12 30.09.11
$/oz $/oz
Platinum 1,517 1,769
Palladium 630 752
Rhodium 1,274 2,145
PGM basket (excluding
by-product revenue) 1,095 1,299
The fragile conditions in the auto industry, particularly
in Europe, have resulted in subdued short-term
demand for PGMs negatively impacting their price.
PGM price deterioration contributed $325 million to
the overall decrease in revenue. It should be noted
that whilst the US Dollar basket price has decreased
by 16% over the 2011 financial year, in Rand terms
the basket price decreased by only 3% impacted by
the relatively weaker Rand.
PGM sales volume for the year to 30 September 2012
was 4% down on the year to 30 September 2011.
The reduction in PGM volumes, mainly as a result of
the Events at Marikana, contributed $68 million to the
overall decrease in revenue. However, the mix of
metals sold resulted in a positive impact of $42 million
mainly due to a higher proportion of Platinum and
Rhodium due to metal-in-process inventory timing
differences. Base metal revenue was down $27 million
largely due to lower nickel prices.
Operating Costs
Total underlying costs (excluding the impact of the
strike disruption) in US Dollar terms decreased by
$134 million mainly due to positive foreign exchange
movements and decreased production offset by the
impact of cost escalations. A track of these changes
is shown in the table below.
$m
Year ended 30 September 2011
– underlying costs 1,681
Increase / (decrease):
Marikana underground mining 33
Marikana opencast mining (18)
Limpopo mining 3
Concentrating and processing 15
Overheads 48
Special operating costs excluded from
underlying costs (169)
Underlying operating costs (88)
Pandora and W1 ore purchases 1
Metal stock movement 100
Foreign exchange (151)
Depreciation and amortisation 4
Cost changes (including foreign
exchange impact) (134)
Year ended 30 September 2012
– underlying costs 1,547
Total Marikana mining costs (underground and
opencast) increased in the year by $15 million or 2%,
mainly as a result of an 8.5% wage increase incurred
in the period partially offset by the reduction in
production due to the strike disruption. Marikana
opencast mining costs reduced by $18 million or 33%
driven by a reduction in production initiated in the first
half as we focused on grade improvement.
Concentrator and processing costs increased over
2011 by $15 million or 4% as escalation effects, in
particular from electricity costs were partially offset by
reduced production.
Overheads increased by $48 million largely due to
some $37 million of idle production costs flowing
directly to the income statement with no production
inventory to allocate them to. In addition $5 million
worth of debt capital raising costs and an additional
$5 million was spent to settle the Keysha dispute.
These costs form part of the $169 million of costs
re-allocated to special items (see below). 
The $100 million adverse impact on operating profit,
excluding exchange impacts, of metal stock movements
results from the reduction of pipeline stocks towards the
end of the year due to minimal production in August and
September as a result of the strike disruption.
The Rand weakened substantially against the US Dollar
during the year under review averaging ZAR8.05 to
USD1 compared to an average of ZAR6.95 to USD1
in 2011 resulting in a $151 million positive impact on
operating costs.
Cost per PGM Ounce
The C1 cost per PGM ounce produced for the year to
30 September 2012 was R8,507. This was an increase
of 12.9% compared to 2011. The cost increases were
largely driven by higher than inflation increases in the
wage bill (8.5%) and electricity tariffs (24%). These
were exacerbated by significant production disruptions
due to increased Section 54 and management induced
safety stoppages as well as community unrest in the
first half of the year and the Events at Marikana in
August and September. It should be noted that the C1
cost per PGM ounce is based on all production costs
including idle fixed production overheads which have
been excluded from our underlying results as discussed
below. If these strike related costs are excluded the
increase in unit cost per PGM ounce produced for 2012
would have been a 5.2% increase compared to 2011.
Further details of unit costs analysis can be found in
the Operating Statistics.
Special Operating Costs
In 2012 special operating costs are made up as follows:
$m
Impairment of the Akanani exploration and
evaluation asset 602
Strike related costs 159
– Idle fixed production costs 120
– Contract costs 29
– Payroll costs 7
– Other 3
Debt capital raising costs 5
Costs relating to disputed prospecting rights 5
Reversal of impairment of employee housing (2)
769 Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 41] Financial Review
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
During the second half of the financial year we
completed a pre-feasibility study on the Akanani
exploration and evaluation asset. This study provided
an update on the results of the original concept study
undertaken at the time of acquisition and showed a
significant increase in capital and operating costs,
influenced by mining methodology and concentrator
requirements. Based on the results of this pre-feasibility
study, coupled with the current and long-term PGM
pricing outlook, we have taken the decision to impair
the asset by $602 million. The carrying amount of
the asset has reduced from $806 million (including
$73 million of goodwill) in 2011 to $208 million at
30 September 2012 after accounting for $4 million
worth of additions during the year.
As highlighted earlier, fixed production overheads
incurred during the illegal strike period for which there
was no associated production output and costs arising
directly as a result of the strike action have been
classified as special items. The total of these strike
related costs amounted to $159 million. Idle fixed
production costs incurred during the strike period
amounted to $120 million. Costs relating to contractors
not being able to fulfil their obligations as a result of
the disruption as well as demobilisation costs on K4
amounted to $29 million. The negotiated wage
settlement included an amount to be paid to employees
on their return to work which totalled $7 million. Other
costs related to the strike include additional security,
media coordination and consumables.
Debt capital raising costs of $5 million were incurred
prior to the strike disruption. These costs related to
exploratory work and capital raising initiatives looking
at tapping various debt markets. As mentioned in the
overview section above, we will now be launching a
Rights Issue to strengthen our balance sheet.
Costs amounting to $5 million (or R40 million) were
incurred to compensate Holgoun Investment Holdings
(Proprietary) Limited, Keysha’s parent company, for
relinquishing a disputed prospecting right and for its
costs including those incurred in carrying out
prospecting activities.
The impairment charge to write down employee
housing processed in 2011 has been reversed during
the year under review following a re-assessment of the
realisable value of the houses.
In 2011 special operating costs of $4 million were
charged. The move of the operational head office from
London to South Africa was completed in the first
quarter at a cost of $2 million and a further $2 million
impairment charge was taken on the write down of
employee housing in Marikana.
Impairment of Available for Sale Financial Assets
The $6 million impairment of available for sale financial
assets represents the loss in value of our share in
Platmin Limited following the company’s delisting in
December 2011.
Financing Costs
Year ended 30 September
2012 2011
$m $m
Net bank interest and fees (27) (46)
Capitalised interest payable
and fees 26 46
Exchange (1) 2
Other (12) (7)
Underlying net finance costs (14) (5)
Special HDSA receivable
income / (costs) 30 (12)
Special fair value movements
in cash flow hedges – (6)
Net finance income / (costs) 16 (23)
The total net finance income of $16 million for the year
ended 30 September 2012 represents a $39 million
favourable movement compared to the total net
finance costs of $23 million for the year ended
30 September 2011.
Net bank interest and fees decreased from $46 million
to $27 million for the year ended 30 September 2012
largely as a result of the 2011 figures including the
unwinding of previously capitalised unamortised bank
fees relating to the old banking facilities which were
replaced by new facilities during 2011 as well as a
lower weighted average cost of financing under
current bank debt facilities. Interest totalling $26 million
was capitalised to assets (2011: $46 million).
Other finance costs largely relate to the unwinding of
the discounting of site rehabilitation liabilities.
The Historically Disadvantaged South Africans (HDSA)
receivable, being the Sterling loan to Shanduka
Resources (Proprietary) Limited (Shanduka), increased
by $30 million during the year to 30 September 2012
being $14 million of foreign exchange gains and
$16 million of accrued interest. The $12 million
reduction in 2011 represented a $24 million reduction
in the fair value of the HDSA derivative and $3 million
worth of exchange losses partially offset by $15 million
of accrued interest.
During 2011 Lonmin entered into an interest rate swap
to hedge against its exposure to a base floating interest
rate linked to a six month USD libor. The swap was
entered into prior to drawing down on the loan facility
resulting in an interim fair value loss of $6 million before
hedge accounting was applied in that financial year.
Taxation
Reported tax for the current year was a credit of
$148 million after the tax effects of special items of
$187 million. The underlying tax charge is $39 million
reflecting an effective rate of 68%. The underlying
charge largely comprises deferred tax charges being
recognised on accelerated capital allowances with a
reduced level of current tax in the year due to decreased
profitability. The very high underlying effective tax rate
is largely driven by exchange effects on profits arising
from a predominantly Rand tax base translated to
the US Dollar functional currency expressed as a
percentage of a small profit before tax figure. [ 42] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Review
Cash Generation and Net Debt
The following table summarises the main components
of the cash flow during the year.
Year ended 30 September
2012 2011
$m $m
Operating (loss) / profit (702) 307
Depreciation, amortisation
and impairment 726 124
Changes in working capital 278 245
Other (2) 6
Cash flow generated from
operations 300 682
Interest and finance costs (27) (36)
Tax (10) (16)
Trading cash inflow 263 630
Capital expenditure (408) (410)
Dividends paid to minority (14) (10)
Free cash (outflow) / inflow (159) 210
Distribution from /
(investment in) joint venture 7 (2)
Additions to financial assets (2) (30)
Issue costs on non-current
borrowings – (8)
Dividends paid to equity
shareholders (31) (30)
Shares issued – 1
Cash (outflow) / inflow (185) 141
Opening net debt (234) (375)
Foreign exchange – 2
Unamortised fees (2) (2)
Closing net debt (421) (234)
Trading cash inflow
(cents per share) 129.8c 311.2c
Free cash (outflow) / inflow
(cents per share) (78.5c) 103.7c
Cash flow generated from operations in the year ended
30 September 2012 at $300 million was significantly
lower than the $682 million recorded in 2011. This
was driven off the back of reduced operating profits
due to the impact of the Events at Marikana and the
subdued PGM pricing environment. Changes in
working capital improved by $33 million compared to
2011. In 2012, working capital cash flows benefited
from the reduction in stock levels at year end due to
extracting ounces out of the stock pipeline as well as
the revenue received in advance on the forward sale
of gold in the first half of the financial year.
Trading cash inflow for the year to 30 September
2012 amounted to $263 million (2011: $630 million).
The cash outflow on interest and finance costs
decreased by $9 million. Tax payments decreased
by $6 million and represent provisional corporate tax
payments. The trading cash inflow per share was
129.8 cents for the year ended 30 September 2012
against 311.2 cents for 2011.
Capital expenditure cash flow at $408 million was in
line with the prior year. In Mining, the expenditure
incurred was focused on operating developments at
Hossy and Saffy shafts, equipping and development
at K4 and investment in the sub-decline at K3. In the
Process Division spend comprised additional furnace
capacity, the Easterns tailings treatment plant as well
as expenditure to increase capacity at the Number
One shaft concentrator. 
The proposed dividend of 15 cents per share for the
financial year ended 30 September 2011 was paid
during the year under review resulting in a cash
outflow of $31 million.
Net debt at $421 million has increased by $187 million
since 30 September 2011. Pressure on net debt as a
result of declining profitability driven by the PGM
pricing environment and significant business
disruptions was partially mitigated by the deferred
revenue proceeds as well as reduction in stock levels
at the end of the year. 
As a result gearing, calculated on net borrowings
attributable to the Group divided by those attributable
net borrowings and the equity interests outstanding at
the balance sheet date, was 14% at 30 September
2012 (30 September 2011: 7%). The ratio of
consolidated net debt to underlying EBITDA increased
from 0.54 times at 30 September 2011 to 2.18 times
at 30 September 2012 which remains within the
covenants relating to the existing bank facilities.
As mentioned later in this report, the terms of these
bank facilities will be revised subject to a successful
Rights Issue.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
The Group faces many risks in the operation of its
business. The Group’s strategy takes into account
known risks, but risks will exist of which we are
currently unaware. This financial review focuses on
financial risk management.
Financial Risk Management
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate
to the availability of funds to meet business needs
(liquidity risk), the risk of default by counterparties
to financial transactions (credit risk), fluctuations in
interest and foreign exchange rates and commodity
prices (market risk). Factors which are outside the
control of management which can have a significant
impact on the business remain, specifically, volatility
in the Rand / US Dollar exchange rate and PGM
commodity prices.
These are the critical factors to consider when
addressing the issue of whether the Group is a Going
Concern.
Liquidity Risk
The policy on liquidity is to ensure that the Group has
sufficient funds to facilitate all ongoing operations. The
Group funds its operations through a mixture of equity
funding and borrowings. The Group’s philosophy is to
maintain an appropriately low level of financial gearing
given the exposure of the business to fluctuations in
PGM commodity prices and the Rand / US Dollar
exchange rate. This is supplemented with additional
risk mitigation strategies such as those described below
in respect of foreign currency and commodity price risk. Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 43] Financial Review
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
As part of the annual budgeting and long-term
planning process, the Group’s cash flow forecast is
reviewed and approved by the Board. The cash flow
forecast is amended for any material changes identified
during the year, for example material acquisitions and
disposals. Where funding requirements are identified
from the cash flow forecast, appropriate measures are
taken to ensure these requirements can be satisfied.
Factors taken into consideration are:
• the size and nature of the requirement;
• preferred sources of finance applying key criteria
of cost, commitment, availability, security /
covenant conditions;
• recommended counterparties, fees and market
conditions; and
• covenants, guarantees and other financial
commitments.
Prior to the strike disruption, the Group had embarked
on a review of its growth strategy, future production
profile and capital investment programme as a result
of prevailing subdued short-term demand for PGMs.
The strike disruption and the continued PGM market
environment has necessitated the Group’s further
review of its strategy and capital structure. To this end,
the Board has concluded that reducing capital
expenditure in the near term and raising additional
equity, in conjunction with a revision to bank facilities
will result in the appropriate capital structure and
retain the Group’s flexibility regarding financial risks.
Consequently the announcement of these results will
coincide with the launch of a Rights Issue which is
conditional on, amongst other things, shareholder
approval. The Group proposes to raise approximately
$817 million before expenses as well as amend the
existing debt facilities.
Both the amended US Dollar Facilities Agreement and
amended Rand Facilities Agreements will only come
into effect if the proposed Rights Issue is completed
and raises at least $700 million of net proceeds no
later than 31 December 2012 and such net proceeds
are used to prepay the Group’s indebtedness under
the Existing Facilities Agreements, including (i) the
prepayment in full of amounts outstanding (amounting
to $300 million plus accrued interest and applicable
break fees) under the US Dollar Term Loan, which
facility will then be cancelled; and (ii) (to the extent of
the remaining net proceeds of the Rights Issue) the
prepayment of amounts outstanding (amounting to
$400 million plus accrued interest and applicable
break fees) under the US Dollar Revolving Credit
Facility; and (iii) the partial prepayment of amounts
outstanding (amounting to R1,980 million equivalent
as at 31 October 2012, which is equivalent to
approximately $229 million based on a Rand / US
Dollar exchange rate of R8.66) plus accrued interest
and applicable break fees) under the Rand Facilities
Agreements.
The principal amendments to the Existing Facilities
Agreements are to remove the net debt / EBITDA and
EBITDA / net interest covenants and to substitute the
following financial covenants into each of these
agreements:
• consolidated tangible net worth will not be less
than $2,250 million;
• consolidated net debt will not exceed 25 per cent
of consolidated tangible net worth; and
• if:
– in respect of the amended US Dollar Facilities
Agreement, the aggregate amount of
outstanding loans exceeds $75 million at any
time during the last six months of any test
period; or
– in respect of both the amended US Dollar
Facilities Agreement and the amended Rand
Facilities Agreements, consolidated net debt
exceeds $300 million as of the last day of any
test period,
the capital expenditure of the Group must not
exceed the limits set out in the table below,
provided that, if 110 per cent of budgeted capital
expenditure for any test period ending on or after
30 September 2013 is lower than the capital
expenditure limit set out in the table below for
that test period, then the capital expenditure limit
for that test period shall be equal to 110 per cent
of such budgeted capital expenditure.
Test Period Capital expenditure limit (ZAR)
1 October 2012 to
31 March 2013 (inclusive) 800,000,000
1 October 2012 to
30 September 2013 (inclusive) 1,600,000,000
1 April 2013 to
31 March 2014 (inclusive) 1,800,000,000
1 October 2013 to
30 September 2014 (inclusive) 2,000,000,000
1 April 2014 to
31 March 2015 (inclusive) 3,000,000,000
1 October 2014 to
30 September 2015 (inclusive) 4,000,000,000
1 April 2015 to
31 March 2016 (inclusive) 4,000,000,000
1 October 2015 to
30 September 2016 (inclusive) 4,000,000,000
As at 30 September 2012, Lonmin had net debt of
$421 million, comprising $739 million of drawn
facilities net of $315 million of cash and equivalents
and $6 million of unamortised bank fees as well as a
further $3 million of external debt incurred to fund the
construction of a chrome treatment plant with an
outside partner.
The effective cost of debt funding for the 2012 financial
year was circa 4.3%.
Credit Risk
Banking Counterparties
Banking counterparty credit risk is managed by
spreading financial transactions across an approved
list of counterparties of high credit quality. Banking
counterparties are approved by the Board and consist
of the ten banks that participate in Lonmin’s bank
debt facilities. These counter-parties comprise: BNP
Paribas S.A., Citigroup Global Markets Limited,
FirstRand Bank Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, Investec Bank
Limited, J.P . Morgan Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc,
The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V., The Standard Bank
of South Africa Limited and Standard Chartered Bank. [ 44] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Review
Trade Receivables
The Group is exposed to significant trade receivable
credit risk through the sale of PGMs to a limited group
of customers.
This risk is managed as follows:
• aged analysis is performed on trade receivable
balances and reviewed on a monthly basis;
• credit ratings are obtained on any new customers
and the credit ratings of existing customers are
monitored on an ongoing basis;
• credit limits are set for customers; and
• trigger points and escalation procedures are
clearly defined.
It should be noted that a significant portion of Lonmin’s
revenue is from two key customers. However, both of
these customers have strong investment grade ratings
and their payment terms are very short, thereby
reducing trade receivable credit risk significantly.
HDSA Receivables
HDSA receivables are secured on the HDSA’s
shareholding in Incwala Resources (Pty) Limited.
Interest Rate Risk
Currently, the bulk of Lonmin’s outstanding borrowings
are in US Dollars. Of the US Dollar borrowings, the
base rate in respect of the $300 million term facility
has been fixed through an interest rate swap for the
term of the facility which runs until May 2016. The
remaining USD borrowings and the ZAR borrowings
are at floating rates of interest linked to LIBOR and
JIBAR respectively. The interest position is kept under
constant review in conjunction with the liquidity policy
outlined above and the future funding requirements
of the business.
Foreign Currency Risk
The Group’s operations are predominantly based in
South Africa and the majority of the revenue stream
is in US Dollars. However, the bulk of the Group’s
operating costs and taxes are paid in Rand. Most of
the cash received in South Africa is in US Dollars.
Most of the Group’s funding sources are in US Dollars.
The Group’s reporting currency is the US Dollar and the
share capital of the Company is based in US Dollars.
Because of the depressed level of our revenue basket
when expressed in Rands experienced prior to the
strike disruption and the sensitivity of this price to a
strengthening Rand, a decision was taken to use
hedging instruments in respect of the Rand / US
Dollar currency exposure for up to 75% of forecast
non-platinum revenues for the second half of the 2012
financial year. All of these hedging instruments
matured by 30 September 2012 without creating any
financial impact and no new foreign exchange
hedging instruments have been entered into.
The approximate effects on the Group’s results of a
10% movement in the Rand to US Dollar based on
the 2012 average exchange rate would be as follows:
Underlying operating profit +/- $117m
Underlying profit for the year +/- $69m
EPS (cents) +/- 34.0c
These sensitivities are based on 2012 prices, costs
and volumes and assume all other variables remain
constant. They are estimated calculations only.
Commodity Price Risk
Our policy is not to hedge commodity price exposure
on PGMs, excluding gold, and therefore any change
in prices will have a direct effect on the Group’s
trading results.
For base metals and gold, hedging is undertaken
where the Board determines that it is in the Group’s
interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows.
The policy is to hedge up to a maximum of 75% of the
future cash flows from the sale of these products
looking forward over the next 12 to 24 months. The
Group did not undertake any hedging of base metals
under this authority in the financial year and no
forward contracts were in place in respect of base
metals at the end of the year.
In respect of gold, Lonmin entered into a prepaid
sale of 75% of its current gold production for the next
54 months in March 2012. In terms of this contract
Lonmin will deliver 70,700 ounces of gold over the
period with delivery on a quarterly basis and in return
received an upfront payment of $107 million. The
upfront receipt was accounted for as deferred revenue
on our balance sheet and is being released to profit
and loss as deliveries take place at an average price
of $1,510/oz delivered.
The approximate effects on the Group’s results of a
10% movement in the 2012 average metal prices
achieved for Platinum (Pt) ($1,517 per ounce),
Palladium (Pd) ($630 per ounce) and Rhodium (Rh)
($1,274 per ounce) would be as follows:
Pt Pd Rh
Underlying
operating profit +/- $106m +/- $21m +/- $15m
Underlying profit
for the year +/- $63m +/- $12m +/- $9m
EPS (cents) +/- 31.0c +/- 5.9c +/- 4.4c
These sensitivities are based on 2012 costs and
volumes and assume all other variables remain
constant. They are estimated calculations only.
Contingent Liabilities
The Group provided third party guarantees to Eskom
as security to cover estimated electricity accounts for
three months. At 30 September 2012 these guarantees
amounted to $12 million (2011: $6 million).
Simon Scott
Acting Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 45] Internal Controls and Risk Management
“No significant weaknesses of material failings were
identified in the annual review.”
Internal controls
As in any business, Lonmin faces risk and uncertainty
in everything it does. The corporate strategy, which is
reviewed on a regular basis, seeks to capitalise on
identified opportunities while mitigating known
downside risks. Where material risks have been
identified within our business, we have implemented
an appropriate internal control environment to
endeavour to protect shareholders’ interests. The
Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system
of internal controls and risk management, and it
discharges its duties in this area by:
Key features of Lonmin’s internal control framework include:
• Determining Lonmin’s risk appetite (the risk
exposure our strategy requires us to consider in
the expectation of an economic return) and risk
tolerance (the risk we are prepared to face in
achieving our strategic goals);
• Overseeing the risk management strategy; and
• Ensuring management implement effective
systems of risk identification, assessment and
mitigation and internal controls. These systems
are designed to manage, rather than eliminate,
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives
and cannot provide absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the
internal controls has been delegated to the Audit and
Risk Committee. The Committee uses information
drawn from a number of different sources to carry out
this review:
• Internal Audit provides objective assurance –
their annual work plan is developed in conjunction
with management and focuses on key risks and
key internal controls. In the light of Internal Audit’s
recommendations, management develops and
implements corrective action plans, which are
tracked to completion by Internal Audit, with the
results reported to executive management and to
the Audit and Risk Committee;
• Annual self-assessments completed by around 77
managers in the Group – each manager confirms
whether there have been any breaches of the
controls and if they are aware of any weaknesses
in the control environment, within their area of the
business. The principle of individual accountability
and responsibility at operational level is an
important component in the Group’s overall risk
philosophy. Managers are responsible for the
identification and effective management of all risks
in their areas of responsibility, and these letters
have a wide ranging scope; and
• Further objective assurance is provided by the
external auditors and other external specialists.
Throughout the year Lonmin complied with the
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code on
internal controls and the relevant sections of Internal
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors (the Turnbull
guidance) and Guidance on Audit Committees
(formerly the Smith guidance). No significant
weaknesses or material failings were identified in the
annual review.
Á Á Á
Clear delegation
of power
Agreed objectives
Agreed ways
of working
Transparency
Schedule of Matters
reserved for the Board’s
decision
Remit and terms of
reference of Board
Committees
Delegation of authority
to each level of
management
Group Strategy, supported
by Life of Business Plan,
resource database and
model
Annual financial and
technical budgets
Risk tolerance / appetite
clearly defined
Charter, values and Code
of Business Conduct
Documented policies,
procedures, processes
and standards
Risk management policy
and procedures
Appropriate tools including
SAP , mine planning,
metallurgical tracking and
accounting, and risk
systems
Clear accountability
Management reporting
against budgets, plans
and forecasts
Annual management
confirmation letters
supported by
Annual audit and other
external assurance
providers
Internal audit and other
in-house review processes
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information [ 46] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Internal Controls and Risk Management
Financial reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal controls over financial
reporting, including over the Group’s consolidation
process. A comprehensive strategic planning,
budgeting and forecasting system is in place. Monthly
financial information, including trading results and
cash flow statements, are reported to the Board and
management. Both the Executive Committee and the
Operations Committee meet monthly to review
performance against budget and forecast and senior
financial managers regularly carry out group
consolidation reviews and analysis of material variances.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the application
of financial reporting standards and any significant
accounting judgements made by management.
Internal controls over financial reporting are designed
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external reporting purposes.
Risk management
Lonmin has an integrated approach to risk management
and internal controls to ensure that its review of risk is
used to inform the internal audit process and the
design of internal controls. The risk management
process, which has been in place throughout the year
under review and to the date of approval of the
accounts, identifies, evaluates, manages and monitors
the risks facing the business. Those risks that are
identified as significant, in addition to the associated
mitigating controls, are reviewed regularly by the
Executive Committee and then by the Board. The
Audit and Risk Committee regularly reviews the
effectiveness of the risk identification process and the
methodology used to evaluate and quantify the risks,
in line with the guidance appended to the Code.
“Top-down” and “bottom-up” risk reviews are carried
out in each area of the business involving the Board
and Executive Committee and operational and middle
managers respectively. All senior managers are
responsible for managing and monitoring risks in their
area of responsibility and recording these in the risk
register. It is mandatory for this process to take place
at least once a year but in practice reviews often take
place more frequently. For each risk identified,
management assesses the root causes, consequences
and mitigating controls. An assessment is then made
of the maximum risk exposure, taking into account the
probability of the risk occurring and the impact before
mitigating controls. Each of the business areas is
supported by an Operational Risk Champion who
co-ordinates all risk management activity in that
business area and ensures that actions are
implemented appropriately. This process ensures all
risks are measured, monitored and reported on a
consistent basis.
A significant portion of Lonmin’s risks relate to safety,
the environment, labour and community relations,
social development and transformation. To enhance
focus in these areas, each business area has
dedicated personnel responsible for managing
environmental and safety matters and monitoring
action plans. In this way Lonmin ensures accountability
remains with operational management. These
particular risks are also reviewed by the Safety and
Sustainability Committee and Transformation
Committee in addition to the Board.
Lonmin’s top 15 principal risks are detailed on the
following pages together with their potential impact
and mitigating strategies. These risks have been
ranked according to magnitude of potential impact
before mitigating actions. These risks represent a
snapshot of the Company’s risk profile at this time.
They are not intended to represent an exhaustive list
of all risks. As the macro environment changes and
country and industry circumstances evolve, new risks
may arise or recede or the rankings of these risks
may change according to severity and probability of
occurrence.
As Lonmin is acutely aware following the strikes that
occurred in August and September 2012 having a
solid risk identification and management system in
place, including internal controls and mitigating
strategies to reduce the impact of these risks, is no
guarantee in itself that these risks will not occur. In the
2011 Annual Report we identified the potential for a
breakdown in employee relations as one of our
principal risks and this year we continue to do so,
albeit that we have now elevated this risk to second
in our list from 11th previously. Other principal risks
to highlight are the importance of solid relations with
local communities and the importance of a strong
balance sheet structure. Both are being actively
addressed by the Board and management. In particular,
we are looking to restructure the balance sheet
through an approximately $800m rights issue and an
amendment to our bank debt facilities which removes
covenants linked to EBITDA, which can be very volatile.
Additionally, investors should be aware that the
Company is a focused producer of Platinum Group
Metals and therefore, while this allows for economies
through specialisation, Lonmin does not benefit from
commodity diversification. Further, since the
commodities Lonmin mines are all from one geographic
region, its performance is influenced by the political,
social and economic factors that affect South Africa.
This includes significant exposure to the USD / ZAR
exchange rate. As such, volatility in metal prices and
exchange rates and changes in the socio-political
environment in South Africa can have a material
impact on the financial performance of the Company,
which can be both positive and negative.
Risk tolerance
Risk tolerance is an indication of the amount of risk
a company is willing to accept in order to meet its
strategic objectives. This is reflected in a company’s
capacity to sustain losses and in its ability to continue
to meet its obligations under different trading
conditions. Lonmin has a matrix scoring system in
place in terms of which risks are rated based on their
likelihood and potential severity. This severity can be
measured using financial, health and safety,
environmental, stakeholder or legal criteria. As such,
Lonmin measures more than just the potential financial
impact of risks. These scores are then used to
escalate risks within the organisation as appropriate
and prompt mitigating actions to be taken.  Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 47] Internal Controls and Risk Management
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Principal Risk Impact Mitigation
1 Failure of safety
routines or safety
strategy
Could result in a catastrophic
loss of life, severely disrupt
operations (either operationally
or through the issuance of
Section 54 notices) and have a
material adverse effect on the
Group’s financial position and if
severe could result in Lonmin’s
Mining Licence being revoked.
Commitment from the Board and management towards
creating a safe culture throughout the Group. The Safety &
Sustainability Committee monitors the implementation of the
safety strategy on behalf of the Board. Processes in place for
safe production include:
• Employee engagement strategy and safety training
standards, both of which are monitored regularly;
• Clearly defined safety protocols including safe behaviour
observations in place;
• Regular third party audits and peer reviews conducted; and
• Balanced scorecard measures incentivise appropriate
safety behaviour.
2 Poor employee
relations influenced
by internal and
external factors 
Could result in an unstable
workforce that severely disrupts
operations (such as through
strikes and inter-union rivalry)
and have a material adverse
effect on the Group’s financial
position.
Following the strike in August and September 2012 Lonmin is
rebuilding relationships with employees. This includes at
Company level a full engagement strategy with all unions and at
an industry level, discussions on moving to collective bargaining
for the platinum sector. Rebuilding solid relationships and trust
will take time but is something that the Board and management
are committed to.
3 Poor community
relations influenced
by external factors
Civil unrest could severely
disrupt operations and have a
material adverse effect
on the Group’s financial
position.
A full engagement strategy with community representatives,
unions and employees is in place. The Board and management
are committed to building solid relationships with local
communities to the benefit of all stakeholders.
4 Access to cost
effective funding
(strong balance
sheet) and treasury
related risks
The Group may not be able to
obtain cost effective funding
when required which could
impact the ability of the Group
to meet its liabilities as they
fall due.
Headroom and key covenants in banking lines are constantly
monitored through rolling cash flow forecasts, as are treasury
related risks such as interest rate and counter-party risks. As
announced in October 2012 Lonmin is looking to restructure its
balance sheet through a rights issue to improve its financial
strength. This includes amending the current bank debt facilities
to remove EBITDA covenants and replace these with Tangible
Net Worth and Capex related covenants. These covenants will
more accurately reflect the solid asset underpin of Lonmin and
remove covenant risk due to market volatility.
5 Social licence to
operate and
reputational risk
(including Social
& Labour Plan)
Poor performance in meeting
Social & Labour plan targets
and a weak reputation could
result in deteriorating
relationships with stakeholders
and place mineral rights at risk
should Lonmin’s Mining
Licence be revoked.
Following the strike in August and September 2012 Lonmin’s
reputation has been damaged. We are co-operating fully with
the Farlam Commission to better understand the tragic events
that occurred at Marikana so that we can address those issue
we are responsible for to ensure we never again see a repeat.
We are also engaged with all our stakeholders including
employees, unions, communities, suppliers and the South
African government. For the Social & Labour Plan targets are
set and monitored on a regular basis by the Executive
Committee, the Safety & Sustainability Committee and the
Transformation Committee. The Balanced Scorecard
incentivises delivery against these targets.
6 Resource
nationalism 
A negative outcome as a
consequence of resource
nationalism, which can take
many different forms, could
have a material adverse effect
on the Group’s future
operational performance and
financial position.
Ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders and government at all
levels to understand and address concerns.
Lonmin’s Top 15 Principal Risks [ 48] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Internal Controls and Risk Management
Principal Risk Impact Mitigation
7 USD metal price
and currency
volatility
(specifically US
Dollar / SA Rand)
Significant changes in the supply
and demand of PGMs (e.g. if
there is product substitution or
supply side constraints) can
create volatility in PGM prices
making long-term planning
difficult. Likewise, significant
fluctuations in exchange rates to
which the Group is exposed can
also make planning difficult and
have a significant effect on the
Group’s financial position.
Lonmin gathers market information from a number of sources
to monitor market segments and trends in the industry. Longer
term volume contracts with key customers mitigate off-take
risk. Historically there has been a long-term correlation between
USD / SA Rand and PGM basket price, although this can
dislocate over short periods. Current policy is not to hedge.
8 Uncompetitive
gross or unit costs
Could have a material adverse
effect on the Group’s
competitive position.
Lonmin has a clear understanding of its competitive position
and required productivity improvement plans.
Balanced Scorecard targets incentivise cost control.
9 Access to secure
energy, electricity
and water
Could impact on the ability to
run current operations and
deliver future expansion plans.
Measurement of energy usage and energy saving initiatives
implemented. Load shedding and contractual agreements with
Eskom (SA energy supplier). Measurement of water usage and
water saving initiatives implemented. Plans aligned with long-term
strategy. Electricity and water supplies secured for key areas
of the business. Active participation in relevant industry bodies.
10 Skills shortages Lack of appropriate skills could
negatively impact upon safety,
production and the ability to
deliver against targets.
Processes for individual development programmes, succession
planning and scarce skills allowances are in place. There is a
focus on bursaries, graduate development and mentorship.
11 Theft of explosives,
copper cable and
product
Could result in a catastrophic
loss of life, severely disrupt
operations and have a material
adverse effect on the Group’s
financial position.
Continuous security vulnerability assessments, a code of ethics,
whistle blowing procedures and compliance audits are in place.
We work closely with relevant government agencies as well as 
with key stakeholders at all levels to minimise.
12 Failure to deliver
on long-term
capital plans and
failure to deliver
shareholder value 
Shareholder value may not be
optimised over the long-term.
We have a strong capital projects department to manage and
implement long-term capital plans. Borehole drilling, magnetic
surveys and 3D seismic surveys are done to ensure full
understanding of the geology on Lonmin properties.
Independent peer reviews of the long-term plan. Balanced
Scorecard incentivises appropriate reserve development.
13 Failure in internal
controls or
accounting
processes
Could severely disrupt
operations and have a material
adverse effect on the Group’s
financial position.
Lonmin has a clear organisational structure with appropriate
segregation of duties and independent internal and external audits
with follow up. The Internal Audit work plan is closely aligned to
the risk management framework and risk profile of the Group.
From an inventory evaluation perspective, grade targets are set and
reported against. Samples are analysed at the assay laboratory.
Stock counts carried out every six months, with the oversight of
external and internal auditors. Metals are tracked electronically.
14 Ineffective
contractor
management
Could lead to a loss of life,
health concerns in local
communities, stoppage of
operations and the possibility
of the withdrawal of relevant
licences and potential litigation.
There is a contractor hub, management procedures and basic
terms and conditions of service for all service providers in
place. There is also an established Steercom Committee as
well as internal and external audits.
15 Bad ground
conditions –
Loss of reserves
Significant changes to our
assessment of the quality and
extent of our ore reserves could
have a material adverse effect
on the Group’s future
operational performance and
financial condition.
Bore hole sampling and seismic surveys are conducted under
the supervision of specialist geologists coupled with
independent audits of reserves. Quality in-house technical
internal review processes.
Lonmin’s Top 15 Principal Risks (continued) Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 49] Sustainability Review
Given that our sustainability and engagement
strategies are currently evolving and will be informed
by introspection and investigations that are currently
underway we have decided not to delay our reporting
on our sustainable development performance. We
remain committed to reporting publicly our sustainable
development performance as we recognise that our
performance is of interest to a diverse range of both
national and international stakeholder, including our
employees and contractors.
This review is a summary of our performance against
those issues that are material to our business and to
our stakeholders. Our online Sustainable Development
Report contains comprehensive information on how
we have progressed on our sustainability journey and
how recent events have impacted the Company.
Our commitments in governing sustainable
development are set out in the Lonmin Safety and
Sustainable Development Policy and are guided by our
15 Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards that
are aligned with the ten principles of the International
Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). The Safety &
Sustainability Committee of the Board has oversight
of the safety, health and environmental programmes.
We have been a member of the ICMM since 2004
and we are signatories to the United Nations Global
Compact.
Securing the safety of our
Employees
Our principal operational priority relates to ensuring
the safety of our employees and contractors. While
we recognise that mining and processing operations
present risks, we believe that we can operate without
injury and, most importantly, without loss of life. During
the year under review, we achieved 13 million fall of
ground free shifts at our Rowland operations – a
significant achievement as fall of ground remains the
highest cause of fatalities in the underground mining
industry. We aspire to be the industry leader in respect
of safety performance, Lonmin was recognised by the
Association of Mine Managers South Africa Safety
Awards in December 2011 where we were awarded
14 of the 36 safety awards.
Our Safety and Sustainable Development Policy
outlines our policy commitments, with 15 Lonmin
Sustainable Development Standards supported by
Fatal Risk Control Protocols. These provide a risk-
based management framework for Company wide
safety management, for our strategy of working
towards continual improvement and alignment with
best practice. The Standards will be implemented
over a three calendar year period, with the aim of
having the standards integrated into decision making
processes during all phases of the operations by
December 2014. A steering committee was appointed
during 2012 that will support the roll out of the 15
Sustainable Development Standards within the
operations.
Our Safety Strategy is devised in consultation with our
stakeholders – we give our operations and employees
the opportunity to identify their current situation and
think about what safety goals they need to achieve.
The Safety Strategy incorporates feedback from
employees at all levels. We have also extended our
safety focus to better understand leading indicators,
such as household conditions. At our Process Division
we are tracking these issues as they can contribute to
employees’ at work behaviour.
As a Company, we use our key safety objectives:
fatality prevention, injury prevention and safe
production culture, to measure our performance.
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
“We recognise that our performance is of interest to
a diverse range of both national and international
stakeholders, including our employees and contractors.”
Governing sustainable
development [ 50] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Sustainability Review
Fatality prevention
Following the unacceptable performance in 2011,
when our operations suffered six fatal accidents,
Lonmin reported two fatal accidents in 2012. While
this falls short of our aim to operate without any loss
of life, we recognise the efforts of management,
employees, contractors and unions to effect this
decrease and we commend our operational teams
on this critical step forward.
An important feature of our safety culture is safety
through leadership development. The entire executive
team and many senior managers, including our CEO,
along with union leaders, participated in a DuPont
safety management training course with emphasis
on achieving a culture of care, increasing safety
awareness and a personal commitment to safety.
This, we believe, will be one of our most valuable
tools in achieving zero harm.
Injury prevention
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is the
principal measure of safety performance, illustrating
the number of occurrences of lost time injuries per
million man hours worked. Our year-on-year LTIFR
improved from 4.71 to 4.16 thus 11.7% improvement.
Over the last five years Lonmin has improved the LTIFR
by 33.65%. Our year-on-year Lost Time Injuries (LTIs)
improved by 11.2% from 419 in 2011 to 372 in 2012.
While our injury rates have declined, the actual
number of LTIs and their causes remain a significant
area of concern. Material handling remains the main
contributor to LTIs, accounting for 25% of all LTIs
during the year. In total, we lost 20, 579 days as a
result of occupational injuries in 2012.
Leading by example has had a significant positive
impact on safety and Visible Felt Leadership (VFL) has
been an important way to drive this behaviour. At
Lonmin, we have made a public declaration of our
commitment to caring about our people. VFL means
that the commitment begins at the top and our
leaders clearly demonstrating and communicating
how safety initiatives should be implemented – setting
expectations and being accountable for the results.
All employees in leadership roles, especially high level
leadership, take part in safety training and workshops
throughout the year.
Reducing the severity of injuries continued to be a
focus area during the year under review. We had 16
level three safety incidents compared with 36 level
three incidents in 2011, a 56% improvement. An injury
can be classified as a level 3 injury based on the
severity of the injury that in the opinion of the medical
practitioner, can result in some degree of permanent
disability. We are investigating all level three safety
incidents to determine their basic causes.
Effort has been made to improve our post-injury care
resulting in a reduction of the amount of time
employees take after being injured. Our severity rate
declined by 20%. Similarly, our Medical Treatment
Cases declined by 44% during the year. 
Safety stoppages
During the year, Lonmin was issued with 37 Section 54
notifications from the Department of Mineral Resources
(DMR), an increase of 37% from the 27 issued in 2011.
Section 54 notifications are issued when an Inspector
from the DMR has reason to believe that any incident,
exercise, or situation at an operation endangers, or
has the potential to endanger, the health and safety
of any person at the mine.
The Company fully supports the government’s
commitment to enforcing mine safety legislation,
and we are directly involved with the DMR and other
government structures to improve safety standards.
We perform internal safety stoppages if we believe
that any incident or situation endangers any person
at the mine. The operation is halted until investigation
confirms the situation is resolved. All injuries and
incidents are investigated and reviewed by senior staff,
allowing us to understand where gaps in our safety
strategy are and implement new, more effective plans.
Employee Development
It is vitally important for Lonmin to attract, develop and
retain skilled employees from diverse backgrounds in
the face of a critical global skills shortage. Globally
mining companies are facing a skills shortage. In
South Africa the situation is further compound by:
• A legacy of inequality which has led to the
exclusion of Historically Disadvantaged South
Africans (HDSAs) and women with core mining
skills, as well as professional and management
positions;
• A legacy of systematic sub-standard education
for HDSAs and people neighbouring countries,
resulting in large percentages of the country’s
adult population illiterate or without skills; and 
• An unemployment crisis in South Africa, where
the private sector is expected to deliver jobs when
government has not and cannot meet this demand.
Attract and retain
The Lonmin Bursary Scheme is an important part of
our human capital pipeline. Our bursar pool currently
consists of students in the following major fields of
study: chemical engineering, electrical engineering,
electronic engineering, industrial engineering,
mechanical engineering, mining engineering, mine
survey, metallurgy, geology and instrumentation.
Bursaries are also allocated in the fields of finance
and information technology. In 2012, Lonmin
supported 98 bursars (43 in 2011), of whom 42%
are from the local community.
Our graduate development programme provides
valuable and structured practical experience and
exposure through a Graduate-in-Training Programme
to bursary students who have completed their
studies. In 2012, we had 27 graduates-in-training. Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 51] Sustainability Review
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
A total of 248 learners enrolled in the learnership
programme this year. In an effort to increase the
number of local community members who could
become eligible for learnership programmes, Lonmin
has been running supplementary classes for school
learners in Mathematics, Physical Science and
English, as well as a one year technical and university
preparedness course. 
Leadership development
Employee training and leadership development are
critical for Lonmin. In 2012, the Company spent
R200 million (US$24 million) on training and
development. This equates to 3.6% of our payroll.
In total 2,326 Individual Development Plans (IDPs)
were in place this year. Although the focus for IDPs
is management we have developed line of sight and
mission directed work teams to develop all our
employees. These programmes incorporate
supervisor training, personal life skills, teamwork and
safety life rules.
This year 942 people attended Adult Basic Education
Training of which 295 were community members. We
have also enrolled 30 employees in the Management
Advancement Training Programme of whom 17 were
HDSA.
Women in mining
At the end of 2012, women represented 8.15% of our
workforce, with 5.11% of our workforce being women
in core mining positions. In 2011, these figures were
7.45% and 4.33% respectively.The Mining Charter
requires that 10% of jobs within the Company be filled
by women in core mining positions by 2014.
To facilitate employment of women, we have:
• provided potential female employees with a fitness
programme which enhances their ability to pass
the entrance fitness test;
• created of policies to assist with the protection
of women in the workplace; and
• provided learnerships to women.
Building a transformed, performance based Company
Specific programmes are in place to ensure the
workforce fairly reflects the demographics of the
country, and to meet the Mining Charter requirement
of 40% HDSAs (including white women) in
management by 2014. Our Recruitment Policy gives
preference to HDSA candidates. To add impetus to
our programme, the Lonmin Corporate Scorecard has
a bonus metric relating to the employment of HDSAs
in management positions.
At the end of 2012, 49.4% of permanent employees
in management positions were classified as HDSAs,
including white women, and 35.9%, excluding white
women.
Empowerment through equity ownership
Shanduka is our Black Economic Empowerment (BEE)
partner through the Incwala Resources (Pty) Limited
(Incwala) structure with representation on our Board
and Executive Committee and an 18% equity interest
in WPL and EPL. Shanduka has a proven track record
of BEE investment and management in the natural
resources sector and believes this investment will
advance its strategy of developing as a BEE company
in the South African mining sector.
As reported elsewhere in this report, it is possible that
we may wish to facilitate the creation of trusts for the
benefit of current and future employees, and
separately for members of the community, to which
new shares could be allotted for their sole economic
benefit. In order to achieve this increase in HDSA
participation we are considering a range of options
involving the issuance of additional shares which
could dilute the interests of shareholders. We have not
yet finalised its proposals, and any future transaction
would need to be considered on its merits and may
require prior shareholder approval.
Partnering with Communities
Historical inequalities in respect of economic
opportunity, education and, indeed, access to basic
infrastructure, as well as difficulties facing the state
in meeting rising community expectations for social
delivery, place an enormous burden on companies. 
Mining companies, in particular, are required to
contribute to economic transformation and social
delivery in line with the Broad-Based Socio-Economic
Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining
and Minerals Industry (amended Mining Charter).
The Lonmin Community Development Programme,
which focuses on education, health and local
economic development (LED), continues to make a
valuable contribution to the quality of life and services
in the communities in which we operate, including our
labour-sending areas. 
Although Lonmin has a department dedicated to large
scale community projects (that spent R39,743,935
on social and labour plan projects) in which our
operational areas also make contributions to support
the communities around our operations. These
initiatives include our Supply Chain department visiting
the Sonop Old Age Home providing much needed
winter supplies, repairing the boiler and delivering
wheel chairs. Our Process Division is paying the
salaries of the staff at the Grace Help Centre (a home
for abused women and children). The division also
gave financial assistance to the school governing
body staff positions at the Sonop School, provide
food supplies to struggling families in Twelereng and
Elandskraal. Our PMR has upgraded the Far East
Rand Hospital to provide a facility to foster abandoned
babies; much needed in this particular area.
We realise that donations such as the above are
charitable related activities and do not have a
sustainable lifespan. However we have a number of
substantial community investment projects in place. [ 52] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Sustainability Review
Community education
Low education levels and increasing youth
unemployment in the Greater Lonmin Community (GLC)
are major areas of concern. To address this, we have
introduced initiatives specifically aimed at increasing
the number of learners passing through the education
system and bridging the widening education gap
between school and university. We have a holistic
approach to building a better system for learners
through our unique education value chain.
The Lonmin Community Education Programme goes
beyond merely addressing basic education needs by
taking on a myriad of challenges, including inadequate
infrastructure, quality of education, school nutrition
needs and school governance. The five pillars of the
programme include:
• Infrastructure: improving school infrastructure
and other resources, from the smallest electrical
issues to extensive building renovations and
refurbishments including building classrooms,
computer and science laboratories and ablution
facilities;
• Learner support: learner support on all levels
including extra lessons and career guidance. The
Ithuteng Extra-curricular Support Programme,
which targets top performers from grade 8 to 12
is Lonmin’s flagship programme;
• Educator support: providing training to the
teachers from the Early Childhood Development
phase through to tertiary level;
• Parent support: a new grapevine SMS system
has been introduced which enables schools to
better communicate with the parents; and
• Nutrition: proper nutrition aids learning,
concentration and memory in school children.
Many children in the GLC arrive at school without
having eaten. Lonmin has addressed this by
supporting the Department of Basic Education’s
(DBE) school nutrition programme by providing a
daily meal. For many children, this is the only meal
that they will eat in a day, and the nutrition
programme has been accredited with increased
attendance over the past year. To ensure
sustainability of the project, Lonmin is working
with the schools to develop food gardens that will
supplement the DBE nutrition programme for
years to come.
Community health
Lonmin’s aim is to provide better access to
comprehensive primary health care to as many people
in our communities as possible. The priorities of our
community health programme were based on the
findings of a comprehensive community health survey
conducted in 2006 and reviewed in 2011. These
priorities are health infrastructure development,
nutritional support, HIV / Aids awareness and general
health promotion.
Our 2012 goal in terms of health infrastructure
development was to provide the residents of the GLC
with access to comprehensive primary health care
services, situated within 5km of their homes. This was a
goal which we achieved. To date Lonmin has completed
two clinic extensions, built a new clinic, donated two
mobile clinics, commenced with construction of three
staff houses in collaboration with the Department of
Health, developed a lodger mother facility at Far East
Rand Hospital and has also donated one obstetric
ambulance to the surrounding communities, with a
total of R11.2 million having been spent. The Marikana,
Modderspruit, Wonderkop and Segwaelane clinics
have been refurbished to enable more community
members to be served and they now have access to
antenatal, paediatric services and treatment for
tuberculosis and HIV / Aids. The construction of a
further clinic in Hwelereng in Limpopo was completed
in September 2012 at a cost of R10.25 million, this is
additional expenditure over the above mentioned
spent.
We continued our efforts continued to manage the
HIV / Aids pandemic and other sexually transmitted
infections through our network of peer educators and
home based carers. To date, 49 community based
peer educators and 92 home based carers have been
trained. These dedicated volunteers receive extensive
training through the Lonmin peer educator and home
based carer programmes, and they in turn pass on
their knowledge to the communities. Youth
programmes were given special attention in 2012,
following the sharp increase in teen pregnancy,
substance abuse and HIV / Aids in the youth of the
GLC, particularly in grades 6 to 12. The long-term
goal is to reduce school drop out rates due to teen
pregnancy. For grades 1 to 5, the programme focuses
on abuse and children’s rights. The school drop out
rate due to teenage pregnancy improved from 23.4%
in 2011 to 17.2% in 2012.
There are currently around 1,300 orphaned and
vulnerable children (OVCs) in the GLC, who need
special care and present unique challenges to the
community. This year we have worked at equipping
the peer educators and home based carers with the
necessary skills to deal with the issues surrounding
orphaned children. Our nutrition programme provided
food to over 400 OVCs at five community based food
centres in Marikana and two in Limpopo. This
programme is a natural progression of the school
nutrition programme. We offer nutrition and health
education and basic skills training to the food
preparers to help them develop income generating
projects. Training in permaculture food gardening was
provided to 88 educators and 1,013 learners. Food
gardens have been established at five food centres
and 24 schools in Marikana and nine in Limpopo with
schools already harvesting vegetables.
Community LED and enterprise development
LED projects in 2012 focused on the development of
basic water and sanitation services and local small
and medium enterprises. The programme is designed
to partner with local authorities and government to
address the major service provision problems facing
the GLC and boost local economies. The choice of
projects is further guided by consultations with the
communities, ward councillors and local municipalities.
These projects include providing access to basic
services such as water and sanitation, rain water
harvesting and setting up of a brick making factory.
Further details of these projects can be viewed online.
sd-report.lonmin.com Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
0
50
100
150
200
250
08 09 10
Financial year
Compensated
Number
11 12
236
45
28
17
33
Diagnosed
Noise induced hearing loss
[ 53] Sustainability Review
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Health
A healthier workforce is also clearly an advantage to
our business: employees who are fit to work at their
full potential will report fewer absences owing to
sickness or ill health. Our health programmes address
the regulatory components of occupational illnesses
and their management and reporting, as well as public
health issues, namely HIV / Aids and tuberculosis.
We understand that the promotion of employee safety
and health entails an integrated approach involving all
stakeholders. We recognise that our employees live in
the communities surrounding our operations and
acknowledge that we have a responsibility to design
and implement sustainable community health projects.
Healthcare delivery
Lonmin offers employees and contractors primary
and occupational healthcare services through various
on-site facilities. There is a hospital at Marikana with
a medical and surgical ward, which conducts minor
procedures, as well as a casualty and outpatients
department. In addition to this hospital we have four
clinics which offer a combination of primary and
occupational healthcare services.
If an employee or contractor is injured on the job we
will treat them on-site or, if the injury is serious, refer
them to a private facility for specialised care. Our
healthcare services will take responsibility for patient
after care. 
Occupational health and hygiene
Our occupational hygiene initiatives are aimed at
reducing the risk of exposure to potentially hazardous
conditions in the workplace, to ensure regulatory
compliance and to improve workplace conditions by
implementing appropriate occupational hygiene
programmes. The programmes implemented at our
mines include the continuous assessment of identified
risks and surveys aimed at identifying new hazards
and risks.
Rate of occupational disease
(per 100,000 employees and contractors)
2012 2011
New NIHL cases diagnosed 115 94
NIHL cases compensated 90 46
Pulmonary tuberculosis 1,230 1,229
Occupational asthma 0 0
Occupational dermatitis 0 3
Platinosis (platinum salt
sensitivity) 0 3
Noise-induced hearing loss
Noise is identified as a key occupational hygiene risk
at Lonmin and regrettably we have seen an increase
in the number of new cases of Noise-Induced Hearing
Loss (NIHL) identified during the year. This can be
attributed to equipment still emitting noise levels
above 110dB and reluctance of operators to wear
hearing protective devices.
Our hearing conservation programme is aimed at
reducing the risk of NIHL through:
• engineering controls, 
• administrative controls, 
• training of staff; 
• personal protective equipment; and 
• medical surveillance.
Our rock drill silencing programme, which aims to
bring the noise levels associated with this equipment to
below 110dB, has continued at a cost to the Company
of R18 million during FY2012 (US$ 2.2 million). Thus
far we have issued 2,061 rock drills fitted with silencing
equipment, and plan to issue a further 506 rock drills
with the silencing equipment.
HIV / Aids and tuberculosis
Lonmin’s biennial wellness campaign, which involves
testing for HIV, blood pressure, glucose, cholesterol
and a tuberculosis symptom screen, took place
during between February and August 2012.
Supporting this initiative are regular awareness
campaigns for employees and communities. The most
significant health issues remain HIV / Aids and
tuberculosis.
We have 486 trained HIV / Aids workplace peer
educators who inform, educate and instruct their
colleagues about HIV / Aids. Prior to the Marikana
tragedy, 279 were active. This is a ratio of 1:101 peer
educators per employee which is below our target of
one peer educator per 75 employees. This year, we
undertook refresher training to motivate and encourage
peer educators. An on-site social worker provides
additional counselling to employees, ensuring a
holistic approach to their wellbeing. 420
440
460
480
500
520
540
560
08 09 10
Financial year
11 12
533
472
528
545
527
Diagnosed and treated tuberculosis cases
[ 54] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Sustainability Review
We sponsored 46,945 voluntary counselling and HIV
tests during the year (2011: 31,666) and had a total of
657 people participating in our wellness programme
(2011: 526).
A total of 2,510 people received Anti-retroviral
Treatment (ART) from the Company (2011: 2,022).
A significant achievement during the year has been
the marked reduction in ART defaulters to less than
5%, which is below our target. (ART defaulters are
those individuals who, for whatever reason, miss their
monthly treatment collection).
Aids remain the highest cause of in-service deaths, and
in 2012 we had 104 Aids related deaths (2011: 139).
Tuberculosis
The high incidence of tuberculosis and the relationship
between tuberculosis and HIV / Aids remain of concern.
All employees and contractors are screened for
tuberculosis during occupational health examinations,
and treatment is provided to all those diagnosed with
tuberculosis. In 2012, a total of 527 new cases of
tuberculosis were diagnosed (2011: 545 cases). We
are very pleased to report a cure rate of 86.1% of
cases where the treatment outcome is known, which
exceeds our target of 85%. A total of 11 cases of
Multi-Drug Resistant Tuberculosis and zero cases of
Extremely Drug Resistant Tuberculosis were reported
in 2012 (2011: 40 and 11).
Occupational health and hygiene
Occupational hygiene initiatives aim to reduce the risk
of exposure to potentially hazardous conditions in the
workplace.
A number of programmes are in place that is aimed
at reducing the risk of exposure to potentially hazardous
substances in the workplace, recent occupational
hygiene measurement data show significant
improvement in employee exposure profiles for
specifically lead and sulphur dioxide. Reduced employee
exposure to lead and sulphur dioxide is due to the
implementation of successful engineering controls.
Exposure to chloroplatinates (Platinum salts) is a
potential occupational health risk during the platinum
refining process. Through our association with the
International Precious Metals Association’s Scientific
Task Force we have been involved in research to
determine Occupational Exposure Limit thresholds for
platinum salts, as well as to determine an adequate
Inhalation Reference Concentration.
Mitigating Environmental
Impacts
Mining can have an adverse impact on the natural
environment. Our fundamental approach to
environmental management is a precautionary one,
based on a sound assessment of potential risks and
their mitigation throughout the life cycle of our
operations. We seek compliance as a minimum with
leading industry practice and continual improvement
forming the basis of our approach.
All our operations have maintained ISO14001
certification.
Our closure liabilities
Our rehabilitation obligations under the Minerals and
Petroleum Resources Development Act 28 of 2002
are fully provided for and we maintain ongoing
rehabilitation programmes in accordance with our
environmental management plans and programmes.
Energy
Lonmin is an intensive user of energy, particularly
fossil fuel generated non-renewable energy, and we
recognise that we have a role to play both in
mitigating climate change and in responding
appropriately to its potential consequences. 
Our total energy consumption in 2012 was 6,433.35
Terajoules (TJ), 1.5%% lower than in 2011 (6,532.63 TJ).
The energy intensity per unit of production increased
by 5.5% from 2011 to 4.77GJ/PGM oz.
Electricity is our most significant indirect energy
source (83.1% of total energy consumption in 2012)
and amounted to 1,485,630MWh (2011: 1,496,842
MWh). This represents a year-on-year decrease of
0.75%. As an energy intensive sector, the mining
industry was called upon to reduce its energy usage,
particularly at times of peak demand. With increases
of 15% scheduled for the next two to three years, and
carbon taxes due to be imposed on Eskom from 2014
likely to be passed on to consumers. To withstand
these costs we are exploring ways of diversifying our
electrical supply through development of renewable
projects and continuing to find new ways of improving
our efficiencies. Many of these projects involve
partnerships with Eskom and the combined
Eskom / Lonmin investment in these projects equates
to R150 million. Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
46.1%
39.6%
3.3%
4.4%
6.3%
0.3%
Air Optimisation
Ventilation Optimisation
Lighting
Hot Water Generation
Renewable & 
Green Technologies
Other
Annual realised and anticipated saving split
(1.06GWh)
[ 55] Sustainability Review
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
The projects we have been able to implement so far
have collectively contributed to an increase in our
electrical efficiency of 0.08MWh/PGM oz since 2007.
These projects range from energy efficiency projects
to peak load clipping and shifting projects. The details
of realised and anticipated savings are shown in the
chart below.
Climate Change
Lonmin’s Climate Change Response Strategy is
customised for Lonmin, and aligned with our
Corporate Business Strategy. Specific tactics within
the Corporate Strategy have been influenced by
Climate Change aspects, including global risks
pertaining to climate change policy and
competitiveness, resource management efficiency in
terms of energy, water and waste management, and
strengthening partnerships in cost management,
operational efficiency and growth, which include
exploring opportunities for PGMs.
Lonmin’s Response Strategy to Climate Change
focuses on identifying risks, opportunities and
adaptation measures. As one of the first steps of this
process, Lonmin conducted both a top-down and
bottom-up risk and opportunity identification exercise
in line with our risk process. This involved conducting
structured interviews with key Lonmin staff across the
business areas, ranging from supply chain,
procurement, long-term planning, mining, processing,
technical services, marketing, investor relations,
environment, community and senior executives. The
structured interview process involved mapping out all
possible risks and opportunities pertaining to climate
change within the business; building capacity within
Lonmin with regard to climate change risks and
opportunities; and assessing the likely impact of
climate change on our operations. We identified
numerous climate change related risks across our
business at operational and corporate levels. These
were separated into four risk categories (physical,
regulatory, reputational and litigation). Low, medium
and high potential scenarios were developed for
priority risks. We developed a financial model to help
us understand the potential implications of these risks
and provide an initial indicative cost.
Lonmin has developed a carbon optimisation model
which quantifies the carbon stresses by source through
the value chain and forecasts scope 1, 2 and 3
emissions. The model serves as an input into strategic
planning and informs the feasibility for different
operational interventions that have the potential to
reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions. The model
will remain dynamic in response to policy development
and business conditions. The model is structured to
provide the following: GHG emissions by source, GHG
emissions by activity, GHG intensity, Carbon Tax
liability (low-high scenarios) and Carbon Tax liability
per activity.
Management of carbon emissions
Our absolute GHG emissions have continued to rise
in line with our increased electricity usage. Lonmin’s
carbon footprint was calculated in accordance with
the GHG Protocol: Corporate Accounting & Reporting
Standard developed by the World Business Council
for Sustainable Development and the World
Resources Institute as well as the ISO 14064
International Standard Part 1 (for reporting of GHG
emissions and removals at the organisational level).
The GHG Protocol divides emissions into three
categories: 
• Scope 1 – direct emissions from sources owned
or under the operational control of the Company; 
• Scope 2 – indirect emissions from the
consumption of purchased electricity; and 
• Scope 3 – indirect emissions an optional reporting
category allowing for other indirect emissions
associated but not controlled by the Company to
be included.
The Lonmin total carbon footprint for 2012 is
estimated at 1,571,940 metric tonnes CO
2
e, which
represents a decrease of 76,403 tonnes (or 4.6%)
over the 2011 performance.
Water
By 2012, South Africa has had 16 consecutive years
of above average rainfall in the majority of summer
rainfall areas and in these areas the last major drought
was more than two decades ago. This trend is unlikely
to continue. In the North West Province, where our
Marikana operations are situated, the total water
demand has recently been calculated at 97% of
supply, with the minimal surplus only as a result of
high rainfall periods between 2009 and 2011.
Our primary source of fresh water for Marikana is
Rand Water, which transports water over the Magalies
Mountains to the Rustenburg area from the Vaal Dam
in Gauteng Province. In 2012, our total fresh water
intake amounted to 8,667,896m
3
(2011: 7,912,595m
3
)
update, a year-on-year increase of 9.5%, but an
overall decrease of 27% in fresh water consumption,
compared to our 2007 baseline.
Our Marikana Integrated Water Use Licence was
granted on 23 October 2012. [ 56] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Sustainability Review
Preventing and minimising contamination
As far as possible, our process water is maintained in
a closed system. Any discharge incident is timeously
reported to define Department of Water Affairs, as
required in terms of the National Water Act, water
samples are taken for analyses to determine water
quality and compliance is checked against stipulated
effluent standards. There has been a significant
decrease in unplanned discharges from our return
water dams and waste water treatment plants in
2012. There were eight incidents in 2012 compared
to 19 in 2011. The water quality results obtained from
the analyses showed that the discharges had limited
impact on the receiving environment due to the
corrective actions implemented by the operations.
None of our discharges had a significant impact on
any protected or biodiversity-sensitive waterbodies.
We continue to monitor boreholes for potential
groundwater contamination – quarterly at the
Marikana operations and bi-annually at Limpopo and
the PMR. Surface water quality is monitored monthly
at all operations. We also conduct bio-monitoring
analyses bi-annually to assess the status of the
aquatic biota in the rivers that flow through our mining
right areas.
Addressing air quality
Air quality management is a significant feature of our
overall environmental strategy and relates directly to
several of our focus areas. Compliance with legislation
and regulatory requirements is fundamental to
maintaining our licence to operate, which makes
air quality management a critical component of the
long-term success of our business. Through our
engagement with GLC residents, we are aware that
air quality is of significant concern to them.
Our principal atmospheric emissions are sulphur
dioxide (SO
2
) from our Smelter and BMR Boiler.
We operate within our Atmosphere and Emissions
Licence (AEL), which was granted in January 2011
under the new National Environmental Management Air
Quality Act 39 of 2004. The AEL conditions include that
the total SO
2
in tonnes per day should be below 17.9.
In 2012, our average SO
2
emissions from the Smelter
was 8.5 tonnes per day, which includes the coal from
the BMR boiler, a decrease of 20% if compared to the
10.58 tonnes per day average in 2011. The significant
improvement can be ascribed to increased
performance in the availability and efficiency of the
Sulphur Fixation Plant and the Air Pollution Control
Equipment during operating conditions.
Total suspended particulates
Total suspended particulate emissions emanate from
the following sources at our Marikana operations:
stacks and buildings, windblown dust from tailings
facilities, drilling and blasting, material handling,
crushing and screening; unpaved roads and paved
roads. The chemical composition of this dust has
been independently tested and does not present a
health risk. On our tailings dams, dust suppression
measures include the use of chemical suppression in
the inner beach area on our larger tailings dams, pod
or floppy systems, the grassing of the side slopes and
alternate deposition of tailings to keep the beach area
wet and the grassing of the side slopes of the tailings
dams. All decommissioned tailings dams are
vegetated on its side slopes and surface areas.
Lonmin undertakes dust fallout monitoring within our
operational and community areas. Compliance to dust
fallout within industrial areas is set at 1,200 mg/m
2
/day
and in residential areas at 600 mg/m
2
/day. Over a
period of 12 months, Lonmin has maintained 91%
compliance to the industrial standard and 89%
compliance with the residential standard.
Waste management
Our strategy is to improve our resource efficiency
extends to the reduction of waste generated as a
result of our operations. Mining and metallurgical
operations produce considerable amounts of general
and hazardous waste, which can degrade the
surrounding environment unless properly managed.
It is likely that the total volume of waste generated
by our operations, both general and hazardous, will
increase over the life of our operations.
Adequate waste management is also critical to many
stakeholder groups and we have this year partnered
with a waste management company to offer a waste
removal service to the residents of the GLC. The
project is still in pilot phase, but we believe it will in the
longer term assist of the surrounding communities
that currently have no waste collection services.
In 2012, a total of 24,691 tonnes of general waste
was generated with 10,271 tonnes disposed to landfill
and 14,420 tonnes recycled, re-used or refurbished.
Calcium sulphite is the largest component of our
hazardous waste to landfill and contribute 68% of our
overall waste to landfill this year. A process has been
initiated for the development of a Dynawave scrubbing
system to replace the older scrubbing technology at
the Smelter, which currently generates a residue of
CaSO3. The new technology would generate gypsum
as a by-product, not a waste. 01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
03 / 
      Directors’ Report – Governance
     
 58  Board of Directors
 60  Executive Committee
 61  Governance
 81  Remuneration Committee Report 1. 2. 3.
4. 5. 6.
Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1. Roger Phillimore, (63) (Chairman)
Roger was appointed Chairman of the
Board in March 2009, having served as
an independent Non-Executive Director
since 1997, and also chairs the
Nomination Committee. Born and raised
in South Africa, Roger is a graduate in
economics and law and has career-long
experience of the international mining
industry. Roger’s previous experience
includes roles as joint managing director
of Minorco and as a non-executive
director of Harry Winston Diamond
Corporation and Engelhard Corporation.
Roger is both a South African and a
British national.
2. Ian Farmer, (50)
(Chief Executive Officer)
Ian joined the Group in 1986 and, after
working in its UK and Zambian
operations, was appointed Finance
Director of Lonmin Platinum in South
Africa in 1995, holding this role until he
joined the Board in 2001. He was
appointed as CEO in September 2008,
following seven years as Chief Strategic
Officer. Ian, a Chartered Accountant,
has a Bachelor of Accounting Science
honours degree from the University of
South Africa and is a British national.
Ian is currently undergoing a course of
treatment and has been absent since
August 2012.
3. Simon Scott, (54)
(Acting Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer)
Simon joined Lonmin and the Board in
September 2010, became CFO in
November 2010 and was appointed as
Acting CEO on 24 August 2012 in view of
Mr Farmer’s illness. He is a graduate with
accounting and commerce degrees from
the University of the Witwatersrand, and
has also attended the management
development program at the University
of Cape Town. A South African registered
chartered accountant, he has held a
number of financial management roles in
South Africa with local and global employers
including over eight years with Anglo
American. Most recently he was CFO of
the JSE-listed Aveng Limited, a globally
active engineering and construction group
with significant involvement in the mining
sector. Simon is both a British and a South
African national.
4. Cyril Ramaphosa, (59)
(Non-Executive Director)
Cyril was nominated by Shanduka,
Lonmin’s principal BEE partner of which he
is a controlling shareholder, and appointed
to the Board in 2010. He chairs the
Transformation Committee. A law
graduate, he was the first General
Secretary of the National Union of
Mineworkers and assisted in building it into
the most powerful union in South Africa. In
1991, he was elected Secretary General of
the ANC and led the team negotiating the
end of apartheid, subsequently chairing the
Assembly which drafted the country’s first
democratic constitution. He then moved
into the private sector, founding Shanduka
Group which he continues to chair. He is
also chairman of MTN and Mondi and
serves on the board of a number of other
companies and advisory bodies, including
as deputy chairman of South Africa’s
National Planning Commission. Cyril is a
South African national.
5. Karen de Segundo, (65)
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Karen was appointed to the Board in
2005 and is a member of the Audit &
Risk, Nomination, Remuneration and
Safety & Sustainability Committees.
A graduate in law, with an MBA from
Michigan State University, she spent
more than 30 years working globally with
Shell, becoming their first female country
head in 1983. After two years as CEO
of Shell’s global Gas & Power business,
she spent five years developing and
leading Shell’s renewable energy
business. She is a non-executive director
of British American Tobacco (where she
has chaired the Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee since 2008),
a director of Pöyry and a member of
the supervisory board of E.ON. Karen
is a Dutch national.
6. Jim Sutcliffe, (56)
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Jim was appointed to the Board in 2007
and is chairman of the Remuneration
Committee and a member of the Audit
& Risk, Nomination and Transformation
Committees. He was appointed Senior
Independent Director at the 2012 AGM.
An actuary by profession, Jim has
extensive UK and South African business
experience, including senior executive
roles with Prudential UK and Old Mutual,
being Group CEO of the latter from
2001-2008. He is a director of the
Financial Reporting Council Limited
and chairs the Codes and Standards
Committee and is also a director of
Liberty Group and Liberty Holdings,
and chairman of Sun Life Financial. He
also chaired the UK Board for Actuarial
Standards until 2 July of this year. Jim
is a British citizen.
[ 58] Board of Directors Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
7. 8.
9. 10.
[ 59] Board of Directors
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
7. David Munro, (57)
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
David was appointed to the Board in 2007
and is a member of the Nomination,
Safety & Sustainability and Transformation
Committees. He was most recently
Development Director of Kazakhmys
from 2006 to 2011. David’s experience
prior to this includes roles as CEO of
RMC Group Plc, Chief Development
Office of BHP Billiton, and as the director
of Biliton Plc responsible for its global
aluminium and base metals businesses.
David is a graduate in a mining engineering
and has extensive experience of mine
management in South Africa. He is a
British national.
8. Len Konar, (58)
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Appointed to the Board in 2010, Len
has chaired the Audit & Risk Committee
since July 2010 and is a member of the
Nomination and Transformation
Committees. Len holds degrees in
accounting and commerce from South
African and U.S. universities. After
qualifying as a chartered accountant,
he pursued an academic career at the
University of Durban-Westville, before
moving into commercial roles. He now has
a broad-ranging business career, chairing
the boards of Leading South African
companies including Exxaro Resources
and Steinhoff International and serving on
the boards of others including Sappi and
Alexander Forbes. A member of the King
Committee on Corporate Governance,
he is also a member of the Corporate
Governance Forum and the Institute of
Directors. Len is a South African national.
9. Jonathan Leslie, (61)
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Jonathan was appointed to the Board in
2009, chairs the Safety & Sustainability
Committee, and is a member of the
Nomination and Remuneration
Committees. After graduating in
jurisprudence and qualifying as a
barrister, Jonathan spent 26 years with
Rio Tinto, including nine years’ service on
its board. His roles at Rio Tinto included
Mining Director and Chief Executive of
the Copper and later the Diamonds &
Gold Product Groups. He was
subsequently CEO of Sappi and the
executive chairman of Nikanor and is
currently CEO of Extract Resources
Limited. Jonathan is a British national.
10. Mahomed Seedat, (56)
(Non-Executive Director)
Appointed to the Board on 1 January
2011 Mahomed is a member of the
Safety & Sustainability and Transformation
Committees. Mahomed has extensive
knowledge and experience of South
African mining, gained from a senior level
executive career with Anglo Coal, BHP
Billiton and latterly as Chief Operating
Officer of Lonmin from October 2008 to
December 2010. A graduate in electrical
engineering, Mahomed was awarded a
fellowship from Harvard Business School
in 1990. He is also a non-executive
director of Mechel Mining OAO and of
Aveng (Africa) Limited and chairs the
boards of Lonmin’s South African
operating subsidiaries. Mahomed is a
South African national. 1. 2. 3. 4.
5. 6. 7.
[ 60] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Executive Committee
1. Ian Farmer, (50) (Chief Executive Officer)
Biography included overleaf on page 58.
2. Simon Scott, (54) (Acting Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer)
Biography included overleaf on page 58.
3. Albert Jamieson, (54) (Chief Commercial Officer)
Albert joined Lonmin in 1989 after eight years at Impala, where
he was responsible for their concentrator operations. He has
held a number of senior management and executive positions
in the mine production and commercial areas of the business
including responsibility for investments in Africa, South
America, North America, Australia and Japan. The commercial
portfolio currently comprises business development, strategy,
marketing and sales, exploration, legal and life of business
planning. Albert has a BSc in Minerals Engineering from the
University of Birmingham and an MBA from the University of
Cape Town. Albert is a British national.
4. Barnard Mokwena, (48) (Executive Vice President Human
Capital & External Affairs)
Barnard joined Lonmin in October 2005 as a Group Manager
and was subsequently promoted to his current position. He
previously worked in senior management positions in a range
of sectors for a number of companies including Sentech, the
South African Rail Commuter Corporation and the National
Lottery Operator (UTHINGO). He holds a BA Phil from Urban
Pontifical University, an MA Licentiate from Gregorian
University and an EDP from Pretoria. Barnard is a South
African national.
5. Mark Munroe, (43) (Executive Vice President Mining)
Mark joined Lonmin in March 2008 in the mining business,
becoming VP Capital Projects & Engineering before being
appointed as EVP Mining in June 2009. He joined Lonmin
from DRDGold, where he spent six years holding a number
of senior management positions including General Manager
of DRDGold and CEO of DRDCapital. Prior to this, he
worked for AngloGold for twelve years. He is a mining
engineer and also has a degree in economics. Mark is a
South African national.
6. Thandeka Ncube, (43) (Business Transformation Manager,
Shanduka Resources)
Thandeka was nominated by Shanduka. She works with
Shanduka’s investee companies advising on transformation
and broad-based empowerment. She holds a social
sciences degree from the City University of New York and
an MBA from Henley Business School. She began her career
working with various government institutions, developing
strategy and policy for small and medium enterprises, and
then joined the retail banking side of Standard Bank.
Thandeka is a South African national.
7. Natascha Viljoen, (43) (Executive Vice President
Processing and Sustainability)
Natascha joined Lonmin in 2008 from BHP Billiton, where
she was General Manager for the Klipspruit mine. Her initial
responsibility was for managing Lonmin’s concentrators, and
in May 2011 she was promoted to her current role, covering
all concentrating, smelting and refining operations. She
holds an engineering degree and is currently studying for an
executive MBA at the University of Cape Town. Natascha’s
career stretches over various commodities and disciplines
in the mining industry with nine years in senior management
roles. Before BHP Billiton she held positions with Anglo
American and AngloGold. Natascha is a South African national. Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 61]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Directors’ Report – Governance
This report combines the Directors’ Report required to be produced by law and the management report and corporate governance
statement required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules. It also includes sections reporting on the role and work of the Audit &
Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee, respectively required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules and The UK
Corporate Governance Code. The Directors’ Remuneration Report is contained in the Remuneration Committee Report on 
pages 81 to 100. 
Part A of this report sets out the roles, composition, attendance, policies, terms of reference and activities of the Board and its
Committees in FY2012. Part B details our relationship with our shareholders: who are key shareholders are, how we communicate
with them, and key features of the 2013 AGM. Part C sets out the Business Review and statutory disclosures for FY2012. 
Introduction: Governance of the Company
The Company is led and controlled by the Board, which is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company. 
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance to facilitate the sustained success of 
the Company. 
As an English-incorporated company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, Lonmin is subject to The UK
Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in June 2010 and its supporting guidance, all of
which is available on the FRC website, www.frc.org.uk. During the year to 30 September 2012 and to the date of this report, the
Company has in all respects complied with the provisions of the Code, save in relation to the requirement to conduct a review of
the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and of individual directors. 
The continuous improvement opportunity presented by a formal review of the Board’s effectiveness is valuable. Ordinarily, we
would have done such a review in August or September 2012, but given all the recent events the Board judged that it would be
inappropriate to conduct such a review in 2012. The Board does not believe that this decision creates any additional risk for
Shareholders, and believes that the decision can be justified given that the time otherwise needed for a review was utilised to
address the multiple issues then facing the Company. It is currently intended that an independent facilitator will manage a rigorous
review process in 2013. 
Almost all of the Company’s business is based in South Africa, where the prevailing governance code is the King Report on
Governance for South Africa 2009, more commonly known as ‘King III’. While the Company and its subsidiaries are not subject to
King III the Board has identified certain provisions which it feels are of benefit to the Company’s overall governance framework,
primarily in relation to ethics and sustainability, and which we follow on a voluntary basis. In addition, South African legislation
mandates that certain companies must form and operate a Social and Ethics Committee. To discharge these obligations in relation
to the Company’s principal operating subsidiaries, Western Platinum Limited and Eastern Platinum Limited, the relevant duties 
and functions were, to the limited extent that they were not already included, integrated into the terms of reference of the
Transformation, Safety & Sustainability and Audit & Risk Committees in March 2012 and accordingly in April 2012 an application
was made to the South African Companies’ Tribunal for a five year exemption from the applicable obligations. 
PART A: THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES
1.    How the Board of Directors operates
1.1 The role of the Board 
The primary purpose of the Board is to ensure the long term success of the Company and protect the interests of
shareholders. The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent controls which enables risk to be
assessed and managed, and is the custodian of the Company’s strategic aims, vision and values. It assesses whether the
necessary financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives
and ensure that it takes full account of safety, environmental and social factors. [ 62] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Directors’ Report – Governance
1.    How the Board of Directors operates (continued)
1.1 The role of the Board (continued)
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board, last reviewed in January 2012 and available on the Company’s website, 
sets out the Board’s ultimate responsibility for the Group’s strategy, operations and risks, requiring the Board to maintain
oversight of risk management and internal control systems and requiring the approval of the Board for certain decisions of
a significant nature. 
  
The Board met nine times during the year and used its time 
in those meetings as shown in the chart alongside. Inevitably, 
any agenda item can involve a degree of overlap between
two or more of the categories. 
1.2 Key Board roles
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer is set out in writing and is summarised
below, together with the primary responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors, providing a
system of checks and balances in which no individual has unfettered decision making power. 
Chairman – Roger Phillimore (based in the United Kingdom) Chief Executive Officer – Ian Farmer
1
(based in South Africa)
Lead and manage the Board Provide leadership to the executive team in running the business
Provide strategic guidance to the executive team Develop proposals for the Board to consider in all areas
reserved for its judgement
Promote the highest standards of corporate governance Ensure effective internal controls and risk management systems
are in place
Ensure effective communication with shareholders Implement all Board approved actions
1 On 24 August 2012, in view of Mr Farmer’s illness (see page 8), Mr Scott was appointed Acting CEO. 
Report to shareholders on
business performance, and
ascertain their views
Oversee reporting to other
stakeholders
Monitor and understand the
risk environment in which the
Company operates
Monitor the delivery of strategy
Challenge or support
management as necessary
Oversee governance
environment, including 
through oversight delegated
to Board Committees
Oversee the internal control
framework
Develop the business model
and provide entrepreneurial
leadership
Appoint the CEO
Consider and approve strategy,
business plans and budgets
Á
Á
Á
Á
33%
48%
8%
11%
Governance
Risk
Strategic
Operational Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 63]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Directors’ Report – Governance
1.    How the Board of Directors operates (continued)
1.2 Key Board roles (continued)
Senior Independent Director – Jim Sutcliffe Non-executive Directors
Act as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed
goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance
Be available to shareholders if they have concerns which Review the integrity of financial information and determine
contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or whether internal controls and systems of risk management 
other Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or where are robust
such contact would be inappropriate
Provide a sounding board for Chairman Determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive
Directors, be involved in the appointment and, where necessary,
the removal of Executive Directors and monitor succession
planning
Roger Phillimore and Mahomed Seedat joined the Committee in late August 2012 in the light of Mr Farmer’s absence and the
Events at Marikana. 
Given their geographical separation, the Chairman has a weekly call with the CEO to discuss current material matters, and the
Chairman also visits the operations outside the Board meeting schedule to meet a wider range of senior executives and
managers. 
A detailed knowledge of South Africa, the mining industry, the PGM business and Lonmin’s operations is crucial to the Non-
executive Directors’ ability to contribute. On appointment each is provided with a tailored induction, and they are expected to
develop and refresh their knowledge and skills on an ongoing basis. The Company supports this by organising site visits and
working sessions with a wide range of operational managers and external experts throughout the year. The Non-executive
Directors have regular contact with the Exco members (see section 7 below) and the broader management team both at
these working sessions and at social occasions. The Chairman routinely holds discussions with Non-executive Directors
without the Executive Directors being present and reviews and agrees with each Director their training and development
needs as and when required. 
1.3 Appointments to the Board
The Company’s Articles of Association empower the Board to appoint new Directors. To ensure a formal, rigorous and
transparent procedure for appointing new Directors to the Board, a Nomination Committee has been created, whose work is
described in section 4 of this report. 
In order for any board to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively, it must comprise the right blend of individuals,
whose skills and experience were gained in a diverse range of backgrounds. Above all, the Directors must exhibit
independence of mind, integrity and the courage to challenge constructively when appropriate. Appointments are therefore
made on personal merit and against objective criteria. In the case of candidates for non-executive directorships, care is taken
to ascertain that they have sufficient time to fulfil their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities. As part of this
process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any
changes. The Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment are available for public inspection and the generic template is
provided on the Company’s website.
As the current composition of the Board and Exco demonstrates, Lonmin strongly supports the benefits of diversity, both in
the boardroom and in the business. Our principal challenge is in meeting the transformation and employment equity targets
we face in South Africa. In order to prioritise these, we have decided not to impose further, gender-based targets upon
ourselves, as these could create an unhelpful constraint on future Board appointments.
1.4 The Board of Directors
The Board currently has ten members: a Non-executive Chairman, seven other Non-executive Directors and two Executive
Directors. The names of the current Directors and their biographical details are set out on pages 58 and 59. All served
throughout the year. In addition, Michael Hartnall served as Senior Independent Director until 26 January 2012, when he
retired after almost nine years’ service, with Jim Sutcliffe taking on his role.
1.5 Balance and independence of the Board and its Committees
The Board believes that it and its committees have an appropriate balance of backgrounds, skills, experience, independence
and knowledge of the Company to discharge their duties effectively and to manage succession issues. A Board with ten
members is sufficiently large to meet business needs without being unwieldy. The blend of individuals and their personal
qualities are determining factors in the Board’s effectiveness; importantly no one individual or small group is able to dominate
decision making. The Board keeps its membership, and that of its Committees, under review to ensure that this balance is
maintained, and that skills and experience continue to be refreshed. It is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to
devote to their roles and that undue reliance is not placed on any individuals.  [ 64] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Directors’ Report – Governance
1.    How the Board of Directors operates (continued)
1.5 Balance and independence of the Board and its Committees (continued)
The Board determines whether Non-Executive Directors are independent. Cyril Ramaphosa was nominated to the Board 
by Shanduka, the parent company of Incwala, Lonmin’s BEE partner, and as a result, the Board does not judge that 
Mr Ramaphosa is independent. In addition, Mahomed Seedat was formerly the Company’s Chief Operating Officer and
provides consultancy services to the Company, and is therefore not regarded as independent. All of the other Non-executive
Directors are regarded as independent by the Board. 
The experience, professional backgrounds and international diversity of the current eight Non-executive Directors can be
summarised as follows:
Industry sector experience Professional background Current country of primary residence
  
A number of the Non-executive Directors have lived and worked in countries other than those in which they currently reside,
and the vast majority have strong links with South Africa as evidenced in the biographical details on pages 58 and 60. 
1.6 How we assess and refresh the Board and its Committees 
There are three ways in which we make sure that the Directors continue to provide suitable leadership and direction to the
Company: performance evaluation, succession planning and annual re-election by shareholders.
Performance evaluation
The Board believes that annual evaluations are helpful in maintaining and enhancing an effective, challenging and dynamic
Board. In FY2010, an externally facilitated evaluation confirmed general board effectiveness and led to the formation of the
Transformation Committee. In FY2011 the Directors completed written assessments, which were then discussed by each
Director in one to one meetings with the Chairman. This process confirmed general board effectiveness and revealed no areas
of concern. It identified three priorities for FY2012: 
• accelerating the delivery of strategy (subject to favourable market conditions) to enhance shareholder value;
• focusing on safety, transformation and the delivery of operational results, particularly by enhancing cost-effectiveness; and
• enhancing the corporate risk register by better ranking key risks and prioritising mitigating action accordingly.
In FY2012, management addressed these priorities, and made significant strides in improving operational performance during
the year, with material progress made against a wide range of safety, production, transformation and cost control targets prior
to the impact of the Events at Marikana. The pressures on the Company’s liquidity position following these events have
resulted in the adoption of the new strategy informing the Lonmin Renewal Plan. Progress was also made in relation to risk
management, with a prioritisation exercise conducted over and above the ranking of risks inherent in the Company’s risk
assessment methodology. The implementation of the CURA integrated risk management software system provides further
impetus and support for the implementation of mitigating actions.
The effectiveness of the Chairman and each of the Committees was also reviewed in FY2011. No material issues were
identified in these reviews. 
The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance. Building and maintaining an effective board,
with members drawn from a diverse range of backgrounds, is of great importance and significant effort has been put into this
in recent years; every Director has been appointed on merit and brings valuable skills, knowledge and experience to our
deliberations. The continuous improvement opportunity presented by a formal review of the Board’s effectiveness is valuable.
Ordinarily, we would have done such a review in August or September 2012, but given the Events at Marikana and the
absence of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board judged that it would be inappropriate to conduct such a review in 2012. The
Board does not believe that this decision creates any additional risk for Shareholders, and believes that the decision can be
justified given that the time otherwise needed for a review was utilised to address the multiple crises then facing the Company.
It is currently intended that an independent facilitator will manage a rigorous external review process in 2013.
6
2
Financial services
Natural resources
2
1
2
1
1
1
Actuarial
Mining/Engineering
Management
Accounting
Political
Legal
4
3
1
South Africa
Spain
United Kingdom Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 65]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Directors’ Report – Governance
1.    How the Board of Directors operates (continued)
1.6 How we assess and refresh the Board and its Committees (continued)
Succession planning
The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for directorships and key management roles, to ensure that
successors for key roles are identified, and provide development opportunities for talented individuals facilitating agreed career
plans and incentivising performance and continued service. During the year, the Board discussed succession planning and, at
its instigation, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the current plan and provided detailed feedback to management, which
was summarised to the Board. All of the senior managers have now undertaken Career Path Appreciation interviews. This tool
aims, in conjunction with other psychometric tests, to establish current and projected executive capability and provide
objective input into the succession planning process. 
Re-election of Directors
All Directors will retire from the Board at the Company’s AGM in January 2013, and each wishes to seek re-election. 
We believe that sufficient biographical and other information is provided in this Annual Report and the AGM Circular to enable
shareholders to make an informed decision. Following the year-end, the Nomination Committee has considered each of the
Non-executive Directors seeking re-election and concluded that their collective backgrounds, skills, experience, independence
and knowledge of the Company enables the Board and its Committees to discharge their respective duties and
responsibilities effectively. 
1.7 Board meetings 
The Board met nine times during the year, of which six were scheduled meetings, including two trips to South Africa. The
other three meetings were called in response to specific events or to issue approvals, usually at short notice, and did not
necessarily require full attendance. In addition to their meeting commitments, the Non-executive Directors also make
themselves available to management whenever required and there is regular contact outside the Board meeting schedule.
Attendance at Board meetings during each Director’s period of service in FY2012 is set out in the table below.
Scheduled Extra
Director meetings meetings
Ian Farmer 5 of 6 1 of 3
Michael Hartnall
1
2 of 2 0 of 0
Len Konar 6 of 6 3 of 3
Jonathan Leslie 6 of 6 2 of 3
David Munro 6 of 6 3 of 3
Roger Phillimore 6 of 6 3 of 3
Cyril Ramaphosa 6 of 6 3 of 3
Mahomed Seedat 6 of 6 3 of 3
Karen de Segundo 5 of 6 3 of 3
Simon Scott 6 of 6 3 of 3
Jim Sutcliffe 6 of 6 3 of 3
1 Mr Hartnall retired on 26 January 2012.
Whenever a Director is unable to participate in a meeting, either in person or remotely, the Chairman will speak to them ahead of
time to solicit their views on key items of business, in order that these can be presented at the meeting and influence the debate. [ 66] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Directors’ Report – Governance
1.    How the Board of Directors operates (continued)
1.8 How the Committees support the Board in its work (continued)
To fulfil its role in the time available, the Board must delegate some of its duties and powers to committees. As well as the
committees recommended in the Code, the Board has established two other Committees to deal with specific business
needs, the Safety & Sustainability and Transformation Committees. Each Committee and its members are provided with
accurate, timely and clear information and sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties. Membership of the
Committees during the year to 30 September 2012 is shown below, together with individual attendance at the Committee
meetings held during each Director’s period of service in FY2012.
Safety & 
Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Transformation
Non-executive Directors
Michael Hartnall
1
Member 1 of 1 Member 1 of 1 Member 1 of 1
Len Konar Chairman 4 of 4 Member 3 of 3 Member 4 of 4
Jonathan Leslie Member 3 of 3 Member 5 of 5 Chairman 5 of 5
David Munro Member 3 of 3 Member 5 of 5 Member 4 of 4
Roger Phillimore Chairman 2 of 3
Cyril Ramaphosa Chairman 4 of 4
Mahomed Seedat Member 5 of 5 Member 4 of 4
Karen de Segundo Member 3 of 4 Member 3 of 3 Member 4 of 5 Member 4 of 5
Jim Sutcliffe Member 4 of 4 Member 3 of 3 Chairman 5 of 5 Member
4 
4 of 4
Executive Director
Ian Farmer Member 3 of 5 Member 3 of 4
Simon Scott Member 1 of 1
2
Member 1 of 1
2
1 Mr Hartnall retired on 26 January 2012.
2 Mr Scott assumed membership of these committees in his capacity as Acting CEO on 24 August 2012. 
Each Committee has written terms of reference, approved by the Board, summarising its objectives, remit and powers, and
available on the Company’s website. All Committee members are provided with an appropriate induction on joining their
respective Committees, as well as ongoing access to training. Minutes of all meetings of the Committees (save for the private
sessions of Committee members at the end of meetings) are circulated to all Directors and presented by the Committee
Chairmen at the next Board meeting. The Committee Chairmen attend the AGM to answer any questions on the Committees’
activities. 
The interaction between the Board, its Committees and the management of the Company can be summarised as follows:
Board of Directors
Executive 
Committee
(Executive Directors, 
Chief Commercial Officer 
and three Executive 
Vice Presidents plus 
one nominee of 
Shanduka Resources)
See Page 73
Operations 
Committee
(Executive Committee 
members, operational 
& functional VPs and 
certain executives and 
senior managers)
See Page 74
Price & Risk 
Committee
(Executive Directors, 
Chief Commercial Officer, 
Head of Tax, Treasury & Risk,
Head of Accounting & Reporting,
Executive Manager, Marketing)
See Page 74
Chief Executive
Officer
See Page 62
Audit & Risk 
Committee
See Page 68
Nomination 
Committee
See Page 70
Remuneration
Committee
See Page 81
Safety & 
Sustainability
Committee
See Page 71
Transformation
Committee
See Page 72
Key: Board Committees
Management Committees Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 67]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Directors’ Report – Governance
1.    How the Board of Directors operates (continued)
1.9 How the Board manages conflicts of interest
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid actual or potential conflicts of interest. In accordance with law, the Board is
empowered to authorise such conflicts where appropriate and has a documented procedure in place to ensure best practice
is followed. This requires that when a Director becomes aware that he or she:
• is in a situation which does or could create a conflict of interest; or
• has an interest in an existing or proposed transaction in which the Company also has an interest;
then they are required to notify the Board in writing of the situational or transactional conflict as soon as possible and in any
event prior to any conflicted transaction being concluded. Directors have a continuing duty to update the Board on any
changes to their other appointments, which are in addition reviewed by the Board on an annual basis. The interests of new
Directors are reviewed during the recruitment process and authorised (if appropriate) by the Board at the first meeting
following their appointment. An annual review of the Directors’ external business interests and other appointments was carried
out in March 2012.
Other than the agreements relating to the investment by Shanduka Resources (Proprietary) Limited (a company ultimately
controlled by Cyril Ramaphosa) in Incwala, the Company’s BEE partner, and the loans made by the Company to facilitate this
investment, further details of which are set out in section 11.4 below, no Director had a material interest in any contract of
significance in relation to the Company’s business at any time during the year or to the date of this report. 
The interests in the Company’s shares of the Directors who held office during the year, and to the date of this report, are
shown in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 97 to 99. Save for Mr Ramaphosa, no Director held any beneficial
interest in the share capital of any other Group company at any time during the year and to the date of this report. 
1.10 How we support the Board
The Board, and its committees, are supplied with regular, comprehensive and timely information in a form and of a quality that
enables them to discharge their duties effectively. All Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries of the Executive
Directors or management whenever necessary, and have access to the services of the Company Secretary. There is a
procedure in place for Directors to take independent professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the Company’s
expense.
The Board is provided with detailed insight into shareholders’ views including, where appropriate, the opportunity to meet
major investors. Copies of sell-side analysts’ notes on the Company are circulated to all Directors, as are summaries of their
views collected anonymously by the Company’s financial PR advisors and summaries of shareholders’ views collated by the
Company’s joint brokers. 
1.11 Directors’ remuneration 
A report on Directors’ remuneration is set out on pages 81 to 100. 
1.12 Protection available to Directors 
In law, Directors are ultimately responsible for most aspects of the Company’s business dealings. As a consequence, they
face potentially significant personal liability under criminal or civil law, or the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure & Transparency
Rules, and face a range of penalties including private or public censure, fines and / or imprisonment. In line with normal
market practice, the Company believes that it is in the Company’s best interests to protect the individuals prepared to serve
on its Board from the consequences of innocent error or omission, since this enables us to attract prudent individuals to act
as Directors.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a Directors’ & Officers’ liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain
circumstances for the benefit of Group personnel including, as recommended by the Code, the Directors. This insurance
policy does not provide cover where the Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
In addition, Deeds of Indemnity have been issued by the Company which, in general terms, protect all past, present and
future Directors and officers of the Company to the extent permissible by law from all costs and expenses incurred in the
defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings are otherwise
disposed of without a finding of fault or where there is a successful application to court for relief from liability. Under the terms
of these indemnities, the Company may advance money to fund a Director’s defence costs which, should the Director not be
exonerated, would be repayable to the Company. Each indemnity operates only to the extent that the applicable Director is
not able to recover the relevant amounts under the Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance policy. All these indemnities were
in force throughout the financial year and to the date of this report, and are available for inspection at the Company’s
Registered Office.  [ 68] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Directors’ Report – Governance
2     The Audit & Risk Committee 
2.1 Role of the Audit & Risk Committee
The Audit & Risk Committee is delegated certain powers and responsibilities by the Board in accordance with its written terms
of reference, available on the Company’s website, which were last reviewed by the Board in March 2012. The primary
purposes of the Audit & Risk Committee are:
• to monitor the integrity of the Company’s financial statements and regulatory announcements relating to its financial
performance and review significant financial reporting judgements;
• to keep under review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls, including financial controls and risk
management systems;
• to provide the Board with an independent assessment of the Group’s accounting affairs and financial position;
• to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its material findings; and
• to oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement,
monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness, ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to provide
non-audit services is appropriately applied, and making recommendations to the Board on their appointment,
reappointment or removal, for it to put to the shareholders in general meeting.
2.2 Composition of the Audit & Risk Committee
The members of the Committee are set out in section 1.8 of this report. Len Konar, who chairs the Committee, is a Chartered
Accountant with extensive financial and accounting experience, and is a member of the King Committee on Corporate
Governance and the Institute of Directors. Jim Sutcliffe is an actuary by training, a director of the Financial Reporting Council
and chairs the Codes and Standards Committee. Mrs de Segundo is a graduate in law with a wealth of sectoral experience,
having been CEO of Shell’s global gas & power business, and spent five years leading Shell’s renewable energy business, and
has been on the Board since 2005. All three members of the Committee are independent. The Committee’s collective skills,
experience and knowledge of the Company allows it to provide rigorous, independent and informed oversight of the
Company’s corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles and to safeguard the independence and
objectivity of the Company’s auditors. 
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the CEO, CFO, Head of Accounting & Reporting, Head of Treasury, Risk & Tax,
Head of Internal Audit and the Assistant Company Secretary (who acts as secretary to the Committee), none of whom do so
as of right. The internal and external auditors attend Committee meetings and a private meeting is routinely held with each of
them to afford the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management. 
2.3 Number of Audit & Risk Committee meetings and attendance
The Committee met four times during the year. Attendance at these meetings is shown in section 1.8 of this report.
See p 58
for more 
information
Biographical 
details [ 69] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Directors’ Report – Governance
2.    The Audit & Risk Committee (continued)
2.4 Activities of the Audit and Risk Committee during the year
The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Committee
considers at each meeting in addition to specific matters arising and items on which the Committee has chosen to focus. 
The work of the Audit Committee in FY2012 is summarised below.
2.5 Internal audit
The Head of Internal Audit reports jointly to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and to the CFO. He heads an internal
audit department comprising 4 in-house auditors, supported by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) who provide specialist
services in connection with matters such as IT security and treasury, which it would be inefficient to resource internally.
A total of 59 assignments were undertaken during the year across a broad cross-section of activities identified by both
management and the Committee, and which align with the principal risks faced by the Company. Internal audit reports are
reviewed with operational management and then delivered to the Exco. Audit findings and the related management actions
are tracked and verified periodically by Internal Audit after being reported by management as complete. Material findings and
recommendations are summarised to the Committee, who receive regular updates on progress in addressing the matters
raised by internal audits. All action points are recorded on a database to facilitate monitoring and accountability.
The Head of Internal Audit is also responsible for the Company’s whistle-blowing programme and heads up the investigations
unit comprising 10 investigators. The primary focus of this team is on the theft of PGMs, but they also have a significant
workload in helping counter copper cable theft, white collar crime and other criminal and unauthorised activities impacting the
business. 
A review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit was carried out during the year by way of a questionnaire completed by those in
the business who had been audited and the external auditors. Having considered the results of this survey and a number of
other factors, including the quality of reporting to the Committee and impartiality of the internal auditors, the Committee
concluded that Internal Audit was in all respects effective.
Internal controls and risk External auditors Financial reporting
• Received reports from the external
auditors and internal auditors on their
audits and assessment of the control
environment
• Reviewed feedback from the
assurance letters submitted by
around 80 senior managers across
the Group
• Reviewed output from the risk
reviews which required managers,
the Exco and the Board to identify
risks and evaluate them before and
after mitigating controls were agreed
and implemented
• Agreed the internal audit programme
and considered the effectiveness of
the internal auditors
• Considered the level of alignment
between the Company’s key risks
and internal audit programme
• Considered and approved the
structure, scope of cover and
renewal terms of the Group’s
insurance programme
• Assessed the effectiveness of the
Group’s internal control environment
• Reviewed matters reported to the
external whistleblowing hotline and a
report from the investigations
department
• Considered progress of roll-out of
CURA integrated risk management
software across the business
• Reviewed reports on audit findings
• Considered the independence of
the auditors and their effectiveness,
taking into account:
(a) non-audit work undertaken
by the external auditors and
compliance with the policy;
(b) feedback from a survey
targeted at various
stakeholders; and 
(c) the Committee’s own
assessment
• Agreed the audit approach and
scope of the audit work to be
undertaken by the external auditors
and the fees for the same
• Considered key focus areas for
FY2012 audit, including going-
concern position, stress-testing,
disclosure, impairment and
inventory
• Reviewed the half year and annual
financial statements and the
significant financial reporting
judgements
• Reviewed the Quarter four and
Quarter two production reports
• Reviewed the liquidity risk and the
basis for preparing the Group
accounts on a going concern basis
and reviewed the related
disclosures in the annual report
• Considered and, where
appropriate, approved classification
of certain costs relating to the
Events at Marikana as special costs
• Reviewed disclosures in the annual
report in relation to internal controls,
risk management, principal risks
and uncertainties and the work of
the Committee
• Reviewed management’s proposals
on impairment [ 70] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Directors’ Report – Governance
2     The Audit & Risk Committee (continued)
2.6 External audit
The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for oversight of the external auditors including approving the annual work plan 
and, on behalf of the Board, the audit fee. The Committee believes that in certain limited areas it is in the Company’s and its
shareholders’ interests to engage the external audit firm to deliver certain services, given their detailed understanding of the
Group.
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the Company adopted an Audit Engagement Policy
in 2010, a copy of which is available on the Company’s website. Under this policy, the external auditors are not permitted to
perform any work that they may subsequently need to audit or which might otherwise either create a conflict of interest or
affect the auditors’ objectivity and independence. The Committee monitors the balance between audit, audit-related and 
non-audit spend to ensure that auditor independence is maintained. 
The policy provides for the following annual authorisation limits:
Audit-related services Non-audit services
Chief Financial Officer $200,000 $100,000
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee $500,000 $250,000
Audit & Risk Committee > $500,000 > $250,000
Fees for non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to $0.08 million (2011 – $0.1 million) representing 5% of the
audit and audit-related fees. Details of the fees paid for audit services, audited-related services and non-audit services can be
found in note 4 to the financial statements. 
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit-related and non-audit fees are not material relative to the income of
the external audit offices and firm as a whole, and that the nature of the services provided are appropriate and in line with the
Company’s policy in this area.
The Audit & Risk Committee has evaluated the performance, independence and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their
effectiveness as external auditors. As part of this process, the Committee considered feedback on the year’s audit gathered
through a survey facilitated by the Secretary to the Committee. Respondents to the survey included the financial management
team at corporate and business levels, the safety and sustainability, tax and stock-taking teams and the internal auditors. The
following factors were also considered:
• the external auditors’ compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional guidance on the rotation of partners;
• the external auditors’ qualifications, expertise and resources and their own assessment of their internal quality procedures;
and 
• the stability and continuity that would be provided by continuing to use KPMG.
After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that the external auditors were effective and has
recommended to the Board that their re-election at the 2013 AGM should be proposed to shareholders. The Committee also
approved the auditors’ remuneration having first compared the proposed fees to the prior year’s fees and also relative to other
companies of similar size and nature. 
3.    The Remuneration Committee
See the Remuneration Report at page 81 for a full discussion of the role, structure and composition of the Remuneration
Committee. 
4.    The Nomination Committee
4.1 Role of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is delegated certain powers and responsibilities by the Board in accordance with its written terms
of reference, last reviewed by the Board in November 2006 and available on the Company’s website. The primary purposes of
the Committee are: 
• to ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge
and experience of the Board is undertaken;
• to recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to instigate and manage the recruitment
process;
• to ensure the Company’s adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above; and
• to oversee compliance with the Code and other applicable corporate governance regulations.
The Committee reports its material findings and recommendations at the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes of its
meetings are circulated to all Directors. Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 71]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Directors’ Report – Governance
4.    The Nomination Committee (continued)
4.2 Composition of the Nomination Committee 
All of the Non-executive Directors are members of the Committee save for Cyril Ramaphosa and Mahomed Seedat, both of
whose counsel is sought if appropriate. This ensures that every member of the Committee is independent. The Chairman of
the Board chairs the Committee, except when the matters under consideration relate to him or succession to his role.
Similarly, should a matter under discussion relate to a particular Non-executive Director, the relevant individual will leave the
meeting. 
The Committee is supported by the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and it has full
access to the CEO. It is also empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisors as it sees fit
to assist with its work.
4.3 Activities of the Nomination Committee during the year
The Committee met three times during the year. Attendance at these meetings is shown in section 1.8 of this report. During
the year the Committee:
• reviewed the Committee’s report within the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts and recommended approval of this to the
Board;
• recommended to the Board that a new three-year term of office be offered to Roger Phillimore, subject to his re-election to
the Board by shareholders at the 2012 AGM; and
• considered each of the Non-executive Directors seeking re-election at the 2012 AGM and concluded that their collective
backgrounds, skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company enables the Board and its Committees to
discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
4.4 Our policy on appointments to the Board
As noted in section 1.3 above, all recommendations for Board appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria
and take into account the benefits of diversity in all its forms. A job specification is drawn up which includes, in the case of
non-executive appointments, an estimate of the time commitment required. Generally, the Committee will engage executive
search consultants, or consider open advertising, to assist in ensuring a comprehensive listing of potential candidates from a
range of backgrounds for the Committee’s consideration. No Directors were appointed during FY2012.
5.    The Safety & Sustainability Committee 
5.1 Role of the Safety & Sustainability Committee
The Safety & Sustainability Committee is delegated certain powers and responsibilities by the Board in accordance with its
written terms of reference, last reviewed by the Board in March 2012 and available on the Company’s website. The primary
purposes of the Committee are:
• to assist the Board to meet its commitments under the Group’s Safety and Sustainable Development Policy; 
• to have oversight of and provide advice to the Board in the areas of safety, health, environment, community (to the extent
not covered by the Transformation Committee), external affairs and human rights, including the risks in each of these
areas; 
• to have oversight of and provide advice to the Board on the Group’s compliance with applicable legal and regulatory
requirements associated with safety and sustainability; 
• to report to the Board developments, trends and / or forthcoming significant legislation in relation to safety and
sustainability which may be relevant to the Group’s operations, its assets or employees; and 
• to review the Group’s external reporting and regulatory disclosures in relation to safety and sustainability.
More detailed information concerning the Group’s sustainability related activities is set out on pages 49 to 56, and in the
Sustainable Development Report, which can be downloaded from the Company’s website.
5.2 Composition of the Safety & Sustainability Committee 
The members of the Committee are Jonathan Leslie (Chairman), Karen De Segundo, David Munro, Mahomed Seedat, Ian
Farmer and Simon Scott, giving the Committee a broad and balanced blend of skills, experience and independence, and
detailed knowledge of the Company and its operations. At the request of the Committee’s Chairman, the EVP – Processing
(who is responsible for sustainability issues for the Group), the EVP – Mining and the Assistant Company Secretary (who acts
as Secretary to the Committee) attend all meetings of the Committee. The Head of Tax, Treasury and Risk also attends certain
meetings. Other managers attend as necessary when their specialist expertise is required, or incidents have occurred in
operations under their control.
5.3 Number of Safety & Sustainability Committee meetings and attendance
The Committee met five times during the year. Attendance at these meetings is shown in section 1.8 of this document.
See p 58
for more 
information
Biographical 
details
See p 58
for more 
information
Biographical 
details [ 72] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Directors’ Report – Governance
5.    The Safety & Sustainability Committee (continued)
5.4 Activities of the Safety & Sustainability Committee during the year
The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Committee
considers at each meeting in addition to matters of topical relevance or on which the Committee has otherwise chosen to
focus. The work of the Committee in FY2012 is summarised below. 
6.    The Transformation Committee
6.1 Role of the Transformation Committee
The Transformation Committee was created by the Board in January 2011 and has powers summarised in its terms of
reference, which were last reviewed in March 2012 and are available on the Company’s website. The primary purpose of the
Transformation Committee is to ensure that the Company meets or exceeds its commitments and obligations in the areas of
transformation and empowerment, and that the interests of all stakeholders (including shareholders) are properly recognised
when doing so. The primary purposes of the Committee are:
• to develop strategies, policies and processes and set goals and targets for transformation and empowerment, and assess
the means by which such strategies are proposed to be implemented and goals achieved, with the goal of ensuring that
there is a disciplined, co-ordinated and sustainable approach to transformation; 
• to monitor, review and evaluate progress made by management in meeting the Company’s obligations in respect of
transformation and empowerment, including the Company’s adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements
and external commitments made in relation to the same; 
• to ensure effective communication on transformation issues between management, the Board and various stakeholders;
and
• to guide and otherwise provide encouragement and counsel to management in relation to transformation and
empowerment.
6.2 Composition of the Transformation Committee 
The members of the Committee include all of the Directors resident in South Africa, together with those with the greatest
experience of doing business there, and are disclosed in section 1.8 of this report. Meetings of the Committee are attended
by the EVP – Human Capital & External Affairs and the Company Secretary (who acts as secretary to the Committee), neither
of whom do so as of right. Other senior managers and board members attend as needed when specialist input is required. 
6.3 Number of Transformation Committee meetings and attendance
The Committee met four times during the year. Attendance at these meetings is shown in section 1.8 of this report.
Safety Sustainability Governance, regulatory and reporting
• Received reports from accountable
managers on fatalities and all serious
safety incidents including a detailed
analysis of factors contributing to an
incident and the corrective and
preventative measures taken to
prevent recurrence
• Reviewed reports on key safety
indicators and trends
• Reviewed progress and
implementation of strategic plan 
to improve safety
• Reviewed effectiveness of disaster
contingency plan in providing
medical aid following the Events at
Marikana and approved measures to
assure recovery of patients and
provide counselling and support to
affected employees and their family
members
• Received reports from accountable
managers on all serious
environmental incidents including a
detailed analysis of factors
contributing to an incident and the
corrective and preventative
measures taken to prevent
recurrence
• Reviewed reports on key indicators
and trends
• Reviewed reports on health and
community indicators and trends
• Considered the potential impact of
emerging climate change regulation
in South Africa and reviewed the
Company’s strategy to manage the
implications of the same
• Reviewed progress report on
implementation of the Group’s
integrated water management
strategy
• Reviewed changes to local and
international safety, health and
environmental regulations
• Considered feedback from external
auditors following their assurance
review of selected data in the 
annual report and Sustainable
Development Report
• Reviewed key sustainability related
risks and associated mitigation
plans
• Reviewed disclosures in the 
annual report and sustainable
development report
See p 58
for more 
information
Biographical 
details Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 73]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Directors’ Report – Governance
6.    The Transformation Committee (continued)
6.4 Activities of the Transformation Committee during the year
The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of reference with standing items that the Committee
considers at each meeting in addition to matters of topical relevance or on which the Committee has otherwise chosen to
focus. The work of the Transformation Committee in FY2012 is summarised below.
7.    Executive Committee
The members of the Exco are the Executive Directors and senior executives as set out on page 60. The members include one
member nominated by Shanduka Resources, the Company’s principal BEE investor who has no executive responsibilities, but
who participates fully in the Committee’s activities. The CEO chairs the Committee, which meets monthly. In addition, Roger
Phillimore and Mahomed Seedat joined the Committee in late August 2012 in the light of Mr Farmer’s absence and the Events
at Marikana. 
Its responsibilities include the following key areas:
• to develop strategy for submission to the Board;
• to develop, implement and monitor operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets;
• to review financial performance, forecasts and targets;
• to prioritise initiatives and allocate resources;
• to identify and drive efficiencies across the Group;
• to approve capital expenditure proposals within the authority levels delegated by the Board and otherwise recommend 
to Board;
• to develop and monitor the Group’s policies and practices in respect of health, safety and environmental matters taking
into account legal requirements, regulations and best practice;
• to review ICAM findings for all serious incidents;
• to oversee risk management including identifying risks and developing and implementing risk mitigation plans; 
• to develop and monitor the internal control environment; and
• to develop and implement Group-wide evaluation, training, reward and remuneration practices and manage wage
negotiations / benefits with unions.
Implementation Strategy Governance, regulatory and reporting
• Consider design of 2012 BSC
metrics to incentivise transformation
• Review progress against 2012
objectives and 2014 targets in
relation to the SLP , and
transformation generally
• Consider strategic options in relation
to meeting the Mining Charter target
of 26% Historically Disadvantaged
South African (HDSA) equity
participation by 2014
• Reviewed key performance
indicators and trends
• Review hostel conversion, medical
and community investment projects
• Consider bursary and graduate
initiatives, artisan college and
mining/portable skills programmes to
enhance community education and
employment
• Consider design of long-term value-
distribution targets for the equitable
application of revenues to
stakeholders including employees
and community groups 
• Consider strategies to improve
employee living conditions including
effective advocacy by Lonmin to
enhance government policy,
community focussed recruitment
and improved working practices
• Develop strategies for development
and retention of high-potential
HDSAs geared to achieving a depth
of talent at all levels of management 
• Develop strategies for procurement
of HDSA contractors
• Review the Committee’s annual
work plan
• Develop strategies for effective
communication of BEE
achievements to local community
and wider audiences
• Reviewed trends and developments
in the interpretation of the Mining
Charter and consensus on best
practice in relation to the same
• Consider results of transformation
risk review and appropriateness of
mitigation policies
See p 60
for more 
information
Biographical 
details [ 74] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Directors’ Report – Governance
8.    Operations Committee
The members of the Operations Committee are the members of the Exco and a wider group of around 25 operational and
functional executives and senior managers across the Group. The CEO is Chairman of the Operations Committee. The
Committee meets as and when required and its primary responsibilities are:
• to assess operational and financial performance across the business including mining, processing, technical services,
human capital, safety, environment and health;
• to monitor progress of various initiatives; and
• to provide a forum to debate business issues between various parts of the business value chain.
In February 2012 the Committee met for a two-day workshop to consider and debate the Company’s strategy and business
plan. 
9.    Price & Risk Committee
The Price & Risk Committee is chaired by the CEO and the members are the CFO, Chief Commercial Officer, Head of
Treasury, Tax & Risk, Head of Financial Planning and Analysis and the Executive Manager, Marketing. The primary purpose of
this Committee is to review and agree proposals in relation to the forward sale of by-products, principally nickel and copper.
The Committee meets as and when required. The Committee’s terms of reference were last reviewed in March 2012. 
PART B: RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
10.  Relations with shareholders
10.1Owners of the Company
Lonmin Plc has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and our UK share register has circa 12,000 registered
shareholders. We also have a secondary listing on the JSE Securities Exchange, South Africa. Our South African branch
register has approximately 2,000 beneficial owners of our shares, including those who hold their shares in dematerialised form
in STRATE, representing approximately 45% of the Company’s shares in issue. We also have a sponsored Level I American
Depositary Receipts programme, with around 700 participants.
Like most listed companies, ownership of the Company’s shares is concentrated in a number of institutional and other
corporate shareholders. The Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in 3% or more of the
Company’s total voting rights up to 7 November 2012:
Percentage of the Company’s total shares and voting rights
Number of 
shares and At date of At date of Nature of 
voting rights notification this report Holding
Xstrata Plc 49,826,225 24.67 24.54 Direct
Old Mutual Investment Group (South Africa) Ltd 17,894,832 8.83 8.81 Direct
Prudential plc group companies 16,558,975 8.17 8.15 Direct
Norges Bank 6,268,918 3.09 3.09 Direct
All ordinary shares of the Company carry the same rights, and no shareholder enjoys any preferential rights, regardless of the
size of their holding. 
10.2 How we communicate with our institutional shareholders
The Code encourages a dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives. The
Executive Directors have regular discussions with institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in the Company’s
best interests, but no information is shared which is not available to shareholders generally. Detailed feedback from these visits
is shared with the Board and investors’ views in relation to governance and remuneration obtained ahead of the AGM are also
collated for the Board. 
The Chairman periodically offers key shareholders the opportunity of meetings with either himself or the Senior Independent
Director to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters shareholders wish to raise. In addition, the Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee has given a standing invitation to key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies to
discuss the Company’s remuneration policy and practice whenever necessary.
The Senior Independent Director, Jim Sutcliffe, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the
normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate. 
After the end of the financial year, management undertook an extensive round of meetings with existing and potential
institutional shareholders in the UK and South Africa to exchange views on the Company’s operating and financial strategy
ahead of the Proposed Rights Issue. In addition, Jim Sutcliffe, the chairman of the Remuneration Committee, intends to meet
with key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies later in the year to discuss a range of pay matters as part of
the normal engagement process in relation to executive remuneration prior to the 2013 AGM.  Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 75]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Directors’ Report – Governance
10.  Relations with shareholders (continued)
10.3 How we communicate with our private shareholders
The Code urges boards to use the AGM to communicate with private investors and to encourage their participation, and the
Board has followed these principles for many years. A business presentation is given to shareholders at the AGM by the CEO,
and all Directors are available to answer questions both formally at the meeting and informally afterwards.
Shareholders vote on separate resolutions on substantially different issues, and we use electronic poll voting, with the results
being announced to the markets and displayed on our website at the conclusion of the AGM. Recognising Lonmin’s
geographical diversity, this enables the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account whether they are able to attend the
meeting or not and also provides a highly democratic voting method. 
In line with best practice, our default means of communication with shareholders is online. This saves the expense, paper and
other resources that would be entailed in printing and distributing large numbers of documents without knowing whether they are
wanted. Shareholders can opt to receive paper documents at any time, should they so wish. In recognition of the needs of private
shareholders, the Company’s website contains a range of investor relations materials, including up-to-date information on the
Group’s activities (including our public reporting documents) and copies of all presentation materials given to institutional investors.
10.4The AGM
The 2013 AGM will be held at 9.00 a.m. on 31 January 2013 at The Assembly Hall, Church House Conference Centre, Dean’s
Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ. A separate circular containing the Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of
the items of special business has been sent to all shareholders and is available on the Company’s website. 
Among the resolutions to be proposed are those seeking shareholders’ authority for the Directors to be authorised to allot
equity securities, a limited dis-application of the statutory pre-emption rights and an authority for the Company to make
market purchases of its own shares. Full details are set out in the AGM circular. 
In addition a resolution is proposed in relation to the mechanics of the BSC Bonus Plan. See the Circular published alongside
this annual report for a full discussion of the proposed changes.
10.5 Dividend
As noted in the Chairman’s Letter on page 8, the Board will not be recommending a final dividend for FY2012. Under our
dividend policy, the Board no longer declares interim dividends, and so no dividends will have been recommended or declared
for FY2012. 
PART C: BUSINESS REVIEW AND STATUTORY DISCLOSURES
11.  The Company’s business and statutory disclosures
11.1 What Lonmin does
The principal activities of the Group during the year continued to be mining, refining and marketing of PGMs. Details of
revenue, operating profit, principal activities and segmental analysis appear in note 2 to the accounts and a list of the principal
subsidiary undertakings, indicating their main activities, appears in note 31. Detailed information on the Group’s activities can
be found in the Business Review.
In addition to the business conducted by its subsidiary undertakings, Lonmin Plc operates in South Africa through a branch
which is registered in that country as an external company.
11.2 Business Review
The Companies Act 2006, section 417 requires that the Directors present a Business Review in this report to inform
shareholders and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information that fulfils this requirement can be found in the sections set out below and is incorporated by reference into
this report. For the purposes of DTR 4.1.5R(2) and DTR 4.1.8R, the management report is the Business Review consisting of
all the sections referred to below:
• the Chairman’s Letter on pages 6 and 8;
• the Chief Executive Officer’s Review on pages 9 to 14;
• the discussion of the Company’s Business Model and Strategy on pages 16 to 21;
• the Market Review on pages 22 and 23;
• the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) on pages 24 and 25; 
• the Transformation and Sustainability Overview section on pages 26 to 29;
• the Operational Review on pages 32 to 38;
• the Financial Review on pages 39 to 44;
• the discussion of Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 45 to 48; 
• the Sustainability Review on pages 49 to 56; 
• the discussion of essential contractual arrangements on page 78;
• the Operational Statistics on pages 153 to 156; and
• this Directors’ Report. [ 76] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Directors’ Report – Governance
11.  The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
11.2 Business Review (continued)
which collectively contain a discussion of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and
position of the Company’s business.
We have been mindful of the best practice guidance published by DEFRA and other bodies in relation to environmental,
community and social KPIs, and the recommendations of the Association of British Insurers in those areas, when drafting this
Business Review.
The Business Review has been prepared to provide the Company’s shareholders with a fair review of the business of the
Company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces. It may not be relied upon by anyone, including 
the Company’s shareholders, for any other purpose. The Business Review is designed to provide shareholders with an
understanding of the Company’s business and the environment in which it operates, and, of necessity, only focuses on
material issues and facts. The omission of reporting on any specific topic should not be taken as implying that it is not 
being addressed.
The Business Review and other sections of this report contain forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking
statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and / or depend on
circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from
those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. No assurance can be given that the forward-looking
statements in the Business Review will be realised. Statements about the Directors’ expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans,
intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions as to future
events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases outside the Company’s control. The information contained
in the Business Review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to Directors at the date of
its preparation and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise the Business Review during the
financial year ahead (other than as required by law or regulation). It is believed that the expectations set out in these forward-
looking statements are reasonable, but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or
trends to differ materially. The forward-looking statements should be read in particular in the context of the specific risk factors
for the Company identified in the Business Review. The Company’s shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
the forward-looking statements. Shareholders should note that the Business Review has not been audited or otherwise
independently verified.
11.3 Principal events of the year
The principal events of the year are covered in the Business Review. 
Following the year end, on 30 October 2012 the Company announced a number of measures that the Directors believe will
strengthen the Company’s financial position and significantly reduce its net indebtedness. These measures included the entry
by the Company into amended facilities with the Group’s existing lenders, which amongst other things significantly reduce the
Group’s risk in relation to its financial covenants, and a proposal to undertake a fully underwritten rights issue (the “Proposed
Rights Issue’’). It also announced the adoption of a new business plan to stabilise production at its mining operations and
target capital expenditure to grow production over the medium term. 
On 2 November 2012 a Circular was posted to shareholders convening a General Meeting, to be held on 19 November 2012,
to facilitate the Proposed Rights Issue by conferring on the Board the authority to allot up to 835 million new ordinary shares.
This authority will be, if adopted, in substitution for the authorities granted in this regard at the 2012 AGM. The Company also
confirmed in the Circular its intention to publish a Prospectus, detailing the terms of the Rights Issue, on 9 November 2012. 
There were no other material events from 30 September 2012 to the date of this report.
11.4 Transactions with Related Parties
There was one transaction with a related party during the year, other than those of a revenue nature in the ordinary 
course of business. This involved the loan of R120 million to Incwala Platinum (Pty) Limited, the Company’s BEE partner, 
on 28 September 2012, as more fully disclosed in note 27 to the financial statements.
11.5 Employees
The Group employed 28, 230 people in South Africa and eight people in the United Kingdom at the end of the year.
Information on the Group’s policies on employee recruitment and engagement can be found in the Transformation and
Sustainability Overview on pages 26 to 29 and the Sustainability Review on pages 49 to 56.  Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 77]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Directors’ Report – Governance
11.  The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
11.6 Research and development
Group companies continue to focus on research and development in the areas of mineral extraction, processing and refining
to unlock new technology opportunities and to extract optimal value from our assets. Good progress has been made on these
projects across the business, including:
• ongoing work on the characterisation of ores, leading to improved specifications for processing equipment and reagents
aimed at improving PGM recovery at our concentrators;
• improved stability and availability of the smelting furnaces through new sensor technologies, better mineralogical
understanding and design improvements which has been evident in the performance of our smelting operations in 2012;
• ongoing work on a new process aimed at significantly upgrading the PGM concentrates from the BMR leading to an
overall reduction in waste, reduction in residue tolling costs and improved PMR efficiencies; and
• significant progress has been made on the development of a new process for the production of finished metals at the PMR
following extensive and successful pilot plant trials. 
Our research efforts remain pragmatic and cost-effective and are conducted in collaboration with the Universities of
Stellenbosch, Cape Town and Pretoria under the leadership of Lonmin management. This has the added benefit of generating
a pool of highly competent and industry-focused graduates for the future.
11.7 Policy on the payment of creditors
The Company complies with, and has registered its support of, the Better Payment Practice Code, available from the Better
Payment Practice Group website, www.payontime.co.uk. The Company pays its bills in accordance with contractual terms,
being either the supplier’s standard terms of payment or alternative terms proposed by the Company. Trade creditors of the
Company at 30 September 2012 represented less than one day (2011 – four days) of its annual purchases.
11.8 Charitable and political donations
No political donations were made during the year. Lonmin has an established policy of not making donations to any political
party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Charitable donations made by the Group during the year in the United Kingdom amounted to £10,250 ($16,025) (2011 –
£2,734 ($4,367)). All of these donations were made to further advance the reputation and interests of the Company. 
During the year, Group companies undertook a number of long-term community development projects in South Africa at a
cost of R5.05 million ($0.63 million) (2011 – R8.32 million ($1.13 million)). These amounts are in addition to amounts expensed
by the Group as the normal costs of implementing its Social & Labour Plans. A fuller explanation of this expenditure is
contained in the Sustainable Development Report for the year which can be downloaded from the Company’s website. 
11.9 Share capital and reserves
The total share capital and reserves attributable to the Group amounted to $2,488 million at 30 September 2012.
The issued share capital of the Company at 30 September 2012 is set out in note 25 to the accounts. Holders of ordinary
shares are entitled to:
• receive all shareholder documents, including notice of any general meeting; 
• attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either in person or by proxy; and
• participate in any distribution of income or capital;
subject to applicable law and the Company’s Articles of Association. 
In general there are no restrictions on the holder’s ability to transfer their shares or exercise their voting rights, save in situations
where the Company is legally entitled to impose such restrictions (usually where amounts remain unpaid on the shares after
request, or the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company). The Company is not aware of any agreements
between its shareholders that may restrict the transfer of their shares or the exercise of the voting rights attaching to them, save
in relation to the employee benefit trust established by the Company, the Lonmin Employee Share Trust, to facilitate various
employee share schemes. The trustee, who is independent of the Company, does not seek to exercise voting rights on the
ordinary shares held in trust, and a dividend waiver is in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of the trust.
For details of the Company’s employee share schemes, see the Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 100. 
In addition to the ordinary shares of $1 each, the Company’s share capital also comprises 50,000 Sterling deferred shares of
£1 each, which were issued in 2002 and allotted to a nominee company to comply with the requirement that a public limited
company must have a minimum share capital of £50,000. These shares do not rank equally with the ordinary shares of the
Company, and have minimal rights. The holders’ consent is not required for changes to the Company’s share capital, and they
are not entitled to receive notice of, or attend, speak or vote at, any general meeting. The holders are not entitled to
participate in any distribution of income or capital save that, following the distribution of £100,000,000,000 plus the paid-up
nominal value of every other share in the capital of the Company, they are entitled to receive an amount equal to the nominal
value of their Sterling deferred shares. 
Subject to applicable law and the Company’s Articles of Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company
including the power to authorise the issue and / or market purchase of the Company’s shares (subject to an appropriate
authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting and any conditions attaching to such authority). [ 78] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Directors’ Report – Governance
11.     The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
11.10 Use of authorities granted at the 2012 Annual General Meeting
At the AGM held on 26 January 2012, shareholders approved three authorities for the Directors in connection with the
Company’s share capital:
No shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
During the year, the Company allotted 400,000 ordinary shares of $1 each for cash, solely to satisfy the exercise of options
or the vesting of awards granted under the Company’s employee share schemes (see note 25 to the accounts).
In addition, on 19 November 2012 approval will be sought from the shareholders to issue and allot, and to grant rights to
subscribe for, shares pursuant to the Rights Issue as discussed more fully on page 76.
11.11 Amendment of the Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
11.12 Essential contractual arrangements
Group companies are party to contracts and other arrangements which the Board judges are essential to the business of
the Company:
• Mineral rights – for any mining company, its mineral titles are of crucial importance. For Lonmin, these include the
New Order Prospecting Rights and New Order Mining Licences granted by the South African Department of Mineral
Resources in respect of our operations in that country and the various Old Order prospecting and mining rights
currently held pending conversion into New Order rights.
• Contracts for the purchase of materials and services – while most of the inputs needed by the Group’s mines and
refining facilities are secured through competitive tendering in the open market, the Group is heavily dependent on two
State-owned near-monopolies, Eskom for the supply of electricity, and Rand Water in respect of the supply of water.
Long term contracts are in place with both vendors and there is extensive engagement, both at industry and Lonmin
levels, with these critical suppliers. 
• Financing arrangements – the Company and Group have a number of loan and other funding facilities with South
African and international banks. It has been agreed with the lenders under these facility agreements that the facilities
will be restructured subject to receipt of the proceeds of the Proposed Rights Issue to create a more robust and flexible
capital structure, reducing the overall level of available debt and removing regularly tested maintenance covenants
linked to profitability, which in the Board’s view do not reflect the significant asset backing that underpins the longer
term credit quality of the Group, and are inappropriate for a single commodity business.
• Contracts Relating to Labour – we have formal recognition and collective agreements with trade unions representing
the vast majority of the Group’s employees in South Africa, most notably the NUM, but also CEPPWAWU, Solidarity
and UASA. These govern the relationships between the parties and the basis on which wages and other allowances
paid to our employees will be determined.
• Contracts for the Sale of Goods – the majority of the Group’s production of PGMs in the year was sold to either
BASF or Mitsubishi. The Group has highly valued long-term relationships and contracts with both companies.
Authority Utilisation during the year
Amount of authority outstanding 
at the end of the year
Power to allot equity securities with a
nominal value of up to $67.4m and, if 
by way of a fully pre-emptive rights
issue, a further $67.4m
The only shares issued during the 
year were in connection with employee
share schemes, and do not count
against this authority
Authority remains outstanding in full
until the next AGM or, if earlier, 
25 April 2013
Power to allot equity securities for cash
other than by way of a pro-rata issue
with a nominal value of up to $10.1m
The only shares issued during the 
year were in connection with employee
share schemes, and do not count
against this authority
Authority remains outstanding in full
until the next AGM or, if earlier, 
25 April 2013
Power to make market purchases of its
own shares, up to a maximum of
20,200,000 shares (being
approximately 10% of the issued share
capital) at prices not less than the
nominal value of each share (being $1)
and not exceeding 105% of the
average mid-market price for the
preceding five business days)
The Company made no purchases 
of its own shares during the year
Authority remains outstanding in full
until the next AGM or, if earlier, 
25 April 2013
See p 108
for more 
information
The Amended
Facilities Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 79]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Directors’ Report – Governance
11.     The Company’s business and statutory disclosures (continued)
11.13 Significant Agreements – change of control
A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid,
such as debt facilities and employee share plans. None of these are deemed to be significant except for the Company’s bank
debt facilities in the amount of approximately $945 million spread across three separate bilateral ZAR facilities and a syndicated
USD facility, which includes seven banks. These facilities contain provisions under which, in the event that new terms to
continue the facility are not agreed within ten days of a change of control in respect of the ZAR facilities and 30 days in respect
of the USD facility, the lender is entitled to give notice cancelling the facility and declaring all outstanding loans together with
accrued interest to become payable within fifteen days of such notice. The change of control clauses will remain the same
under the Amended Facilities which will become effective on the successful completion of the Proposed Rights Issue. 
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office
or employment resulting from a change of control, except that certain provisions in some of the Company’s long-term
incentive schemes may be triggered. For details of the exceptional one-off cash retention award made to Simon Scott, see
page 95. Awards made under the Stay & Prosper Plan crystallise immediately following a change of control, although they
only vest and become payable on their normal maturity date (three years from the date of grant) and are subject generally to
the continued employment of the participant. Directors of the Company are not permitted to hold awards under this Plan.
Awards under the Company’s other share plans will vest on a change of control, save to the extent specified by the
Remuneration Committee, who will generally take into account the extent to which the performance targets have been met
and such other factors as they believe to be appropriate in line with the rules of the relevant plans. Further information on
these plans and other long-term incentives is in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 81 to 100.
11.14 Rules on Appointment and Removal of Directors
Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution following his nomination by the Board, his
retirement at a general meeting, or his nomination by a member entitled to vote at such a meeting. In addition, the Directors
may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next AGM. 
A Director may be removed by the Company as provided for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in the
Company’s Articles of Association (for example bankruptcy, or resignation), or by a special resolution of the Company. All
Directors stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations of the Code. For a full description of 
the Company’s policies in relation to the appointment and removal of directors see the Remuneration Report at page 91.
For details of the Directors’ contracts and letters of appointment, see page 99. 
12.     Accountability and Audit
12.1   Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company Accounts in accordance
with applicable law and regulation.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU
and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting
Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing
each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by
the EU;
• for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and
the parent company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud
and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulation, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with applicable law and regulation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors’ Responsibility Statement can be found on page 103.  [ 80] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Directors’ Report – Governance
12.  Accountability and Audit (continued)
12.2 How the Directors discharged their responsibilities in this area
• The Lonmin Group financial statements are presented in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, using the 
US Dollar as its reporting currency.
• Details of the Group’s financial risk management are described in the Financial Review on pages 39 to 44 and in the
Statement on Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 45 to 48. 
• The Directors believe that, subject to receipt of the proceeds of the Proposed Rights Issue and to the other conditions to
the Amended Facilities having been satisfied such that the Amended Facilities come into effect, the Company has sufficient
working capital for its present purposes, that is for at least 12 months from the date of this document, and that it is,
therefore, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. Please refer to the going
concern disclosure in the Financial Review on pages 39 to 44, and the basis of preparation disclosure in the accounts on
page 108.
12.3 Relationships with the external auditors
The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on the financial statements and certain other
disclosures prepared by the Directors. Following their re-election at the 2012 AGM, KPMG Audit plc acted as the external
auditors to the Lonmin Group throughout the year. The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in London and supported by an
audit partner based in Johannesburg.
So far as each current Director is aware, there is no information relevant to the audit of which the Company’s auditors are
unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself
aware of any such information and to ensure that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
For details of how the Audit and Risk Committee monitors and safeguards the objectivity of the Auditors, and disclosure of
non-audit services provided by the Auditors, see page 70. A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors
of the Company will be proposed at the AGM, see page 75 for further details. 
For and on behalf of the Board
Rob Bellhouse
Company Secretary
8 November 2012 [ 81] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
Dear Fellow Shareholder,
I am pleased to introduce the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2012. This has
been a difficult year for the company, as all can see. In fact for the first 10 months of the year management
made strong progress, with improvements in safety and mining production, and continued to achieve extremely
good recoveries in the process division. Despite this, weak PGM prices and a strong Rand made for tough
trading conditions and depressed profitability. And then the tragic events of August and September overtook us.
In this context, your Remuneration Committee has had to make some careful decisions, both to recognise the
poor results, but also to recognise the sterling efforts of many to enhance and preserve the value of your assets.
Remuneration Strategy
In a very similar way to FY2012 and as foreshadowed in last year’s report, we had put in place at the start of the
year a Balanced Scorecard to drive the annual bonus plan for all our key executives based on strategically
important business metrics, including the Corporate KPIs (on pages 24 and 25 of the Business Review). Safety
is one of the biggest risks in our business and forms a key BSC metric, and we did make an adjustment this
year to emphasise the paramount importance of avoiding fatalities. Our long-term incentive plan performance
hurdles combine operational results with the delivery of value to shareholders (measured by our Relative Total
Shareholder Return (RTSR)), providing a further tie to our strategy. In this way, your executives’ interests are
closely aligned with shareholder interests, and this is further underpinned by material shareholding requirements. 
In July 2012, the Committee held a “Blue Sky” session to reconsider the fundamentals of the Company’s
approach to remuneration from first principles. We had it in mind to make some changes, but the Events at
Marikana overwhelmed all other considerations and, with your CEO falling ill and all of the other challenges we
faced, decided to keep our pay structure stable for a period, except that we added retention bonuses to the
packages for a small number of key executives. With this in mind, no material changes to the structure or levels
of pay are proposed for FY2013. As the BSC is linked to key strategic KPIs, we do not publish the details of
targets in advance but I can confirm that no material changes to the metrics are contemplated. 
FY2012 pay reflects performance
Details of the corporate elements of the FY2012 BSC are on page 94. At board level 46.3% points were earned
out of the overall 80% available at target. Strong performance in safety, transformation, ore reserve creation and
processing was, inevitably, offset by the loss of production and consequent rise in unit costs resulting directly
from the Events at Marikana. However, this is also a year when we have had to seek shareholders’ support for
the Proposed Rights Issue. In the light of this, and despite the fact that the CEO had been delivering everything
asked of him prior to his unfortunate illness, the Committee has determined that the CEO should receive no
bonus for FY2012. The personal element of the CFO’s bonus has been assessed at zero for the same reasons,
but we decided that he should be allowed to receive a bonus as per the predetermined formula in all other
respects. We believe that his contribution to the preservation of shareholder value as Acting CEO in difficult
conditions makes this entirely appropriate. 
The directors’ performance-based long-term incentives vesting in the year failed to reach the minimum targets,
and hence did not pay out. 
Relations with shareholders
At the AGM on 31 January 2013, we are seeking shareholder approval for the power to settle bonuses 
payable under the BSC in shares, which is discussed fully in the Circular published alongside this annual report.
Finally, this remuneration report is subject to an advisory vote at the 2013 AGM, and I have no hesitation in
recommending it to you. We will be happy to answer questions at the meeting, but particularly given the unusual
circumstances, are available and happy to discuss remuneration matters with our shareholders at any time.
Yours faithfully,
Jim Sutcliffe
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
8 November 2012 [ 82] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
ROLE, STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee has powers delegated to it by the Board as set out in terms of reference available on the Company’s website.
These were last updated in November 2005. The Committee’s main responsibilities are to:
• determine and agree with the Board the Company’s executive remuneration strategy and policy;
• determine individual remuneration packages and terms of employment within that policy for the Executive Directors and
nineteen other senior executives (collectively known as the Purview Group);
• oversee the operation of the Company’s incentive schemes, including designing and setting performance conditions for annual
bonus and long-term incentive schemes;
• consider major changes in employee remuneration in the Group;
• select and appoint consultants to advise the Committee; 
• report to shareholders through annual reports; and
• make recommendations to the Board on the fees offered to the Non-executive Directors, after taking independent professional
advice;
all of which it carries out on behalf of the Board.
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee comprised the following independent Non-executive Directors during the year and to the date of this report:
Member From To
Jim Sutcliffe (Chairman) 28 January 2009 To date
Karen de Segundo 20 July 2011 To date
Jonathan Leslie 2 July 2009 To date
Michael Hartnall 8 May 2003 26 January 2012
Mr Hartnall retired from the Board at the AGM on 26 January 2012, as anticipated. Mr Sutcliffe has considerable experience
designing and implementing strategically-aligned remuneration systems, having been chief executive of several businesses,
including a FTSE100 company. Mrs de Segundo has extensive executive experience in natural resources having been CEO of
Shell’s global gas and power business, and spent five years leading Shell’s renewable energy business. Mr Leslie combines his
knowledge and outlook as chairman of the Safety & Sustainability Committee with the sectoral expertise gained as a director of Rio
Tinto for nine years, a former CEO of Sappi and the current CEO of Extract Resources. The Board feels that this collective
experience enables the Committee to offer a balanced, informed and independent view on remuneration. 
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the CEO, the EVP – External Affairs & Human Capital, the Company Secretary (who
acts as secretary to the Committee) and the Assistant Company Secretary, none of whom do so as of right and who do not attend
when their own remuneration is being discussed. The meetings on 21 March 2012 and 24 July 2012 were also attended by a
representative of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . After each meeting, the Committee meets with the CEO, and then in private. 
See page 66 for details of the attendance record of the Committee. 
Advisors to the Remuneration Committee
The Committee also receives views and recommendations from the CEO, the Company Secretary and the EVP : External Affairs &
Human Capital in relation to executive remuneration (save in relation to their own pay) and on governance matters.
In addition, during the year, the Committee was materially assisted in its work by the following external consultants:
Advisor Appointed by Services provided to the Committee Other services provided to the Company
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
(London office)
Committee • General advice on
remuneration matters
• Benchmarking
• Advice on market practice and
shareholder perspectives
• Independent measurement of
performance conditions
• Support management in
devising remuneration
proposals
• IFRS2 valuations of share
schemes
• PwC South Africa provides
specialist support to the internal
audit function (see page 69)
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Company • Advice on employment law 
and share schemes
• General UK legal advice
KPMG Audit Plc Committee • Assurance in the form of
limited, specific checking
procedures on the results of 
the BSC
• External auditor and certain
other services (see page 70)  [ 83] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
ROLE, STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (CONTINUED)
Advisors to the Remuneration Committee (continued)
Of these advisers, only PricewaterhouseCoppers LLP provided advice on remuneration policy. They were selected to do this on
the basis of their previous performance. The total cost of their services in FY2012 (which are set out in the table above) was
£65,450, paid on a quarterly basis. 
The Committee is confident that none of these cross-relationships generates an unmanageable conflict of interest and that the
sums payable in respect of each service do not compromise the objectivity and impartiality of the others. 
Activities of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee met five times during FY2012: four times in line with its usual practice, with an additional “Blue Sky” session on 6
July 2012 to facilitate broad discussion of the fundamentals of the Company’s approach to remuneration. The issues set out below
were among the items discussed.
Meeting Fixed pay issues Annual incentives Long term incentives
Governance, risk and other
matters
9 November
2011
• Consider TCTC
settlements for
Lonmin workforce
generally, and
benchmark data in
both UK and SA
• Approve adjustments
to the base pay of
Executive Directors
and Company
Secretary and to
TCTC of members of
the Purview Group
• Receive auditors’
report on FY2011 
BSC
• Administration and
approval of FY2011
bonus payments
• Approve design of
FY2012 bonus plan
• Review risk alignment
of the FY2012 BSC
(including risk of
creating perverse
incentives)
• Approve awards
under ASAP , S&P 
and LTIP
• Approve vesting
results for 2008 
DABS matched
awards (see page 88)
• Approve 2011
remuneration report
• Consider alignment of
the Company with ABI
Principles of
Remuneration paper
• Consider BIS
consultation on
executive pay
• Ratify directors’
expenses for FY2011
• Consider succession
planning
21 March 2012 • Consider results of
TCTC benchmarking
survey for Lonmin
workforce generally
• Ratify the final design
of FY 2012 BSC
• Consider design of 
FY 2013 BSC
• Ratify personal
objectives of
Executive Committee
members
• Review likely outcome
for FY2012 BSC 
• Review vesting
outcomes in 
calendar 2012
• Approve S&P awards 
• Approve LTIP awards
• Review of succession
planning status
• Review of BIS
consultation on
executive pay
• Consider thinking on
Lonmin management-
retention
arrangements
• Approve and / or ratify
changes to Purview
Group members
6 July 2012
“Blue Sky”
meeting
• Consider trends in
South African mining
sector
• Consider changing
benchmarking basis 
• Consider possible
alternative metrics for
BSC
• Consider scope for
relative weighting of
long-term incentives
based on a given
role’s strategic and
operational
responsibilities 
• Consider alternative
structures for
facilitating
shareholding
obligation 
• Consider scope for
simplification of
incentive
arrangements
• Consider possible
measures to enhance
flexibility and certainty 
• Consider retention
strategies in the light
of changing market
conditions 
• Consider perception
of remuneration
arrangements within
the Company [ 84] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
ROLE, STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (CONTINUED)
Activities of the Remuneration Committee (continued)
The Committee Chairman presents a summary of material matters to the Board and minutes of Committee meetings are circulated
to all Directors. The Committee reports to shareholders annually in this report and the Committee Chairman attends the AGM to
address any questions arising.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
The Committee is provided with information on pay across the Group’s workforce generally and during FY2012 has undertaken a
detailed review of the bonus arrangements in place throughout the business. When debating pay reviews for the Executive
Directors, the Committee is provided with both UK and SA inflation data and also insight into the increases being offered to the
Group’s workforce and other staff members. 
Risk alignment
The Committee has considered the alignment of performance-related pay systems with the Company’s key risks, and believes that
the design of these systems does not create perverse incentives and incentivises effective risk management, including in relation to
environmental, social and governance risks. 
Relations with shareholders
The Committee is committed to open dialogue with shareholders on remuneration, and consults with key institutional investors and
their representative bodies when considering future policy. 
At the AGM held in January 2012, the advisory vote on the remuneration report received the support of 97.2% of those voting,
with holders of less than 6% of the register abstaining or withholding their votes. The Committee Chairman and the Company
Secretary have responded to a number of queries from shareholders during the year. In addition, Jim Sutcliffe, the chairman of the
Remuneration Committee, intends to meet with key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies later in the year to
discuss a range of pay matters as part of the normal engagement process in relation to executive remuneration prior to the 
2013 AGM. 
Meeting Fixed pay issues Annual incentives Long term incentives
Governance, risk and 
other matters
24 July 2012 • Approve changes to
the composition of the
Purview Group 
• Review likely outcome
for FY2012 BSC
• Review LTIP / S&P
awards maturing in
2012 and approve
allotments to enable
these to be settled
• Approve retention
award to Purview
Group member
• Review of succession
planning status
• Review loss of value
for executives on
leaving employment
• Review progress
against shareholding
obligations
• Review UK
governance best
practice in relation to
executive pay
• Consider government
proposals in relation
to disclosure of
directors’
remuneration
11 September
2012
• Consider additional
remuneration to be
provided to Mr Scott
in respect of his role
as acting CEO
• Consider interim pay
arrangements for Mr
Farmer during his
absence 
• Review likely outcome
for FY2012 BSC
• Approve vesting of
2009 LTIP and S&P
retention awards for
executives and senior
managers
• Approve grant of
2012 LTIP and S&P
awards for executives
and senior managers 
• Approve one-off 
cash retention award
to Mr Scott (see 
page 95)
• Propose series of
shareholder meetings
regarding
remuneration policy
• Review consultancy
agreements and
benchmark payments
to consultants against
market norms
See p 91
for how this 
policy was 
implemented
in FY2012 [ 85] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION POLICY
Policy stability
The Committee does not anticipate any material changes to the structure of executives’ remuneration packages in FY2013. As a
result, aside from inflation-linked pay increases, the Executive Directors’ potential earnings have not changed since FY2008.
Non-executive Directors
The Board reviews Non-executive Directors’ fees every two years to ensure that they are in line with market norms so that the
Company can continue to attract and retain individuals of the highest calibre. The Company’s policy is to pay the base fee for the
first year of each Director’s appointment in advance, recognising the significant work entailed by the induction process. From the
end of that year, all fees are paid monthly in arrears. In line with the Code, remuneration for Non-executive Directors does not
include share options or other performance related elements.
Executive Directors and senior executives
The Committee’s remuneration policy with respect to Executive Directors, members of the Purview Group, executives and
managers seeks to address four objectives:
• attract and retain executives of the right calibre in the face of severe skills shortages in the South African mining industry;
• ensure alignment of executive and shareholder interests;
• provide clear and straightforward incentives on a consistent basis, to reward delivery of key strategic and personal objectives
within agreed risk parameters; and
• ensure fairness: reward must be justified and performance must be rewarded to build the trust essential for retaining
executives.
Frequent benchmarking exercises are undertaken to debate the position of pay relative to market, and to identify and mitigate the
risk of losing strong performers. Different elements of executive pay are delivered over the short and longer terms, to recognise
each individual’s responsibilities and performance, as summarised below. 
1 For historic reasons awards to managers in the Company’s South African operating companies are made under the S&P which is now materially similar
to the LTIP – see page 87 for details of the remaining differences between the schemes. 
All long-term share awards are subject to continued service, although individuals classified as a “Good Leaver” may retain their
awards, subject to pro-rating for time, with any applicable performance conditions being assessed on the vesting date. 
Each element of the remuneration package has different characteristics, and plays an important role.
Fixed pay Performance-related pay
Annual Long term (delivered over three years)
Base pay 
– See Pages 86 and 92
Benefits – car, life and other health 
insurances 
– See Pages 86 and 92
Pension – contribution or salary 
supplement
– See Pages 92 and 93
Shareholding obligation places material amount of personal wealth at risk
Balanced Scorecard (BSC) Bonus
Plan (cash settled)
Annual bonus of up to 125% of base
salary in relevant year dependent on
performance metrics aligned with
strategic objectives and the 
corporate risk register 
– See Pages 86 and 94
Annual Share Award Plan (ASAP)
Annual awards matching value of
award under BSC Bonus Plan in 
relevant year, converted into notional
no. of shares on grant, deferred for
three years and subject to claw-back
– See Page 87
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Stay & Prosper Plan (S&P)
1
Annual awards of from zero to 150%
of base pay in relevant year, at 
Committee’s discretion, converted
into notional no. of shares on grant
and deferred for 3 years, with vesting
value linked to 3-year corporate 
performance, emphasising RTSR
– See Page 87 [ 86] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION POLICY (CONTINUED)
Base pay, benefits and pension
Balanced Scorecard (BSC) Bonus Plan
The Committee adjusts the design of the BSC each year to incentivise the delivery of key strategic objectives across a range of
areas, including risk, environmental, governance and social issues and to address short-term imperatives. The FY2012 BSC
design is fully aligned with corporate strategy, KPIs, and the corporate risk register. The metrics, targets and outcomes of the
FY2012 BSC are summarised on page 94, and no material change to the structure of the BSC is expected for FY2013. The results
of the BSC are only declared after the underlying data has been assured by KPMG. 
Purpose Policy How it operates
• Attract and retain executives of the
right calibre 
       Base pay and benefits
• Base salary reflects market median
levels, subject to experience and
performance
• Executive Directors and UK senior
executives are benchmarked against
other UK listed companies of
comparable size and, where
appropriate, relevant international
mining companies
• Senior executives in South Africa are
benchmarked against South African
market practice
       Pension
• Provide a market competitive level of
provision with good flexibility
• Minimise risk to the Company
associated with defined benefit plans
       Base pay and benefits
• Base pay is paid monthly in cash
• Base pay for UK executives is
supplemented with a car plus fuel 
or cash allowance in lieu, private
medical insurance, income
protection insurance and life
assurance and the option of 
annual medicals
• Senior executives based in South
Africa have a ‘total cost to company’
(TCTC) package which covers base
pay and all benefits. This is in line
with market practice in South Africa
• Reviewed annually, effective 
1 October
       Pension
• Defined contribution funding or cash
salary supplement at executive’s
choice
• All of Lonmin’s defined benefit
pension plans have been wound-up
in an orderly manner and the trusts
dissolved
Purpose Policy How it operates
•  Provide clear and straightforward
incentives on a consistent basis, to
reward delivery of key strategic and
personal objectives within agreed risk
parameters
• Ensure fairness: reward must be
justified and performance must be
rewarded to build the trust essential
for retaining executives
• Annual bonus linked to base salary
only and based on metrics aligned
with strategic objectives and the
corporate risk register
• For the Executive Directors the
metrics are weighted so that:
(a) 80% of value is linked to corporate
KPIs; and
(b) 20% of value is linked to personal
objectives
• For other executives the metrics are
adjusted to give greater weight to
factors under the control or influence
of that executive 
• Each metric has a percentage of
base pay allocated to it (the “target
amount” for that metric)
• There are generally four levels of
performance for each metric:
(a) Below Threshold: 0% of the target
amount payable
(b) Threshold: 50% of the target amount
payable
(c) Target: 100% of the target amount
payable
(d) Stretch: 150% of the target amount
payable
• FY2012 scheme design provides for
CEO / CFO bonus of 83.5% of base
salary if performance on every
element was at target, with the
stretch bonus capped at 125% of
base salary [ 87] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION POLICY (CONTINUED)
Annual Share Award Plan (ASAP)
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and Stay & Prosper Plan (S&P)
1 S&P awards may be settled in cash or shares at the time of vesting, at the Committee ‘s discretion. Current policy is to settle in shares. 
2 No formal limit on grant size is contained in the LTIP rules, but the Company has given a commitment that in normal circumstances awards will be limited
to 150% of base pay.
Awards to Executive Directors and certain managers are made using the LTIP . For historic reasons, awards to managers in our South
African operating companies are made under the S&P , a separate plan. The design and operation of the S&P design has converged
with that of the LTIP , but two differences remain. First, following a change of control of Lonmin Plc, LTIP awards vest and become
payable, subject to pro-rating for performance, time and any other factors considered relevant by the Remuneration Committee,
whereas S&P awards crystallise in full but remain payable on their normal vesting date, subject to continued employment. Secondly,
whereas LTIP awards are always settled in shares, on vesting S&P awards may be settled either in shares or by a cash payment equal
to such shares’ market value on vesting. Our current policy is that such awards are settled through the issue of new shares. 
Performance conditions
As noted above, LTIP awards to the Executive Directors are wholly subject to performance conditions, with half of each LTIP or
S&P award made to executives and managers subject to the same conditions. The Committee considers the relevance of
proposed performance conditions to ensure their alignment with corporate strategy.
RTSR has always been used by Lonmin as a performance condition, ensuring that executive remuneration reflects actual returns
delivered to shareholders. The relative nature of this test creates an objective metric of long-term performance for shareholders
which is largely independent of the short-term variability introduced into reported results by volatile metal prices and exchange
rates (particularly between the South African Rand and the US Dollar).
Purpose Policy How it operates
• Ensure alignment of executive and
shareholder interests
• Value is forfeitable if the executive
leaves employment within three
years, providing a clear retention
incentive 
• Shareholders’ interests are protected
through claw-back provisions
• Facilitates material exposure to the
Company’s shares by Executive
Directors and members of the
Purview Group
• Value matches value of award under
BSC Bonus Plan in relevant year to
incentivise delivery of strategic
objectives and align reward with
performance
• Claw back mechanism ensures
fairness
• Delayed vesting acts as retention tool
• Value converted into notional number
of shares on award date
• Structured as nil-cost option
• Vests on third anniversary of grant,
subject to continued service
• Once vested may be exercised at
any time between the third and tenth
anniversaries of grant at executive’s
discretion
• Settled in shares 
• Claw back in the event of a
restatement of the results for the year
for which the applicable BSC Bonus
Plan award was assessed during the
three year holding period
Purpose Policy How it operates
• Ensure alignment of executive and
shareholder interests
• Attract and retain executives of the
right calibre 
• Ensure fairness: median performance
should lead to median pay and upper
quartile performance should lead to
upper quartile total reward
• Annual awards, settled in shares
1
on vesting
• Facilitates material exposure to the
Company’s shares by Executive
Directors and members of the
Purview Group
• Value of grant is from zero to 150%
2
of base pay, at the Remuneration
Committee’s discretion to align
overall remuneration with
performance subject to robust
delivery of value to shareholders over
subsequent three years
• Value of award converted into notional
number of shares on award date
• Vesting is deferred for 3 years,
subject to continued service
• The performance condition
combines the corporate elements of
the BSC (averaged over 3 years) with
Relative Total Shareholder Return
over 3 years, and emphasises RTSR
(see page 87)
• For Executive Directors 100% of
value vests subject to the
performance conditions
• For executives and managers 50%
of value vests subject to the
performance conditions, and 50%
is a retention award  [ 88] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION POLICY (CONTINUED)
Performance conditions (continued)  
Following meetings with key institutional shareholders in 2010, the Committee decided to introduce a performance condition
recognising, at a low level, the sustained hard work required in difficult times before the result is recognised in the share price. After
exploring a number of options, and further shareholder consultation, the Committee concluded that the corporate elements of the
BSC were well-suited to this purpose, and adopted a performance condition based on both the corporate elements of the BSC
and RTSR, in each case measured over three-year periods, and emphasising RTSR. This approach has been used since 2010.
The matrix below illustrates the vesting outcomes (as a percentage of the face value of the award, with full interpolation between
the points shown) for the LTIP and S&P awards made since 2010:
% of face value vesting RTSR result Factor Average BSC performance over three years
BSC result <Threshold Threshold Target Stretch (Max)
Factor 0.0x 0.5x 1.0x 1.5x
RTSR performance <Median – 5% pa 0.0x 0% 0% 0% 0%
Median – 5% pa 0.0x 0% 8.33% 16.66% 25%
Median 0.5x 0% 16.66% 33.33% 50%
Median + 5% pa 1.0x 0% 25% 50% 75%
Median ≥ + 10% pa 1.5x 0% 33.33% 66.66% 100%
Factors are multiplied and, as the maximum is (2.0 x 1.5) = 3, the result is then divided by 3 to derive the vesting percentage.
The matrix shows that results emphasise RTSR– even with every BSC item delivering at “stretch”, with median RTSR the plans
deliver only half the face value. RTSR is assessed by PwC using data normalised into US Dollars, sourced from Datastream or
other independent providers. 
Historic performance conditions
Since LTIP and S&P awards have a three year performance and vesting period, in FY2012 the Committee assessed the
performance conditions applicable to the 2008 and 2009 awards, using the metrics detailed below. Historically, performance
conditions combined RTSR with EBIT targets, which were used as a metric of medium-term value creation. When setting the
performance conditions for the 2008 and 2009 awards, the Committee considered that, because EBIT was difficult to forecast
given turbulent market conditions at the time, absolute share price targets should be used, as set out below. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           % of
                                                     Basis of                                                                                                                                                                         component of
Award                                          performance conditions               Performance conditions                              Performance                                 award released
2008 DAB
1
                        50% RTSR                        TSR relative to a group of              Threshold (median)                        20%
2009 LTIP                                                                    20 comparator companies             Target (75th percentile)                  70%
2009 S&P                                                                                                                          Stretch (90th percentile)               100%
                                          50% Share Price                Lonmin Plc share price on             Threshold                                      20%
                                                                                    London Stock Exchange               Stretch                                         100%
2009 LTIP to                      33.3% RTSR                     TSR relative to a group of              Threshold (median)                          0%
Executive Directors
2
                                                     20 comparator companies             Target (75th percentile)                  70%
                                                                                                                                          Stretch (90th percentile)               100%
                                          33.3% Share Price             Lonmin Plc share price on             Threshold                                      20%
                                                                                    London Stock Exchange               Stretch                                         100%
                                          33.3% Share Price             Lonmin Plc share price on             Threshold                                        0%
                                                                                    London Stock Exchange with        Stretch                                         100%
                                                                                    higher threshold to reward 
                                                                                    exceptional performance
1 For details of this historic share scheme, see Appendix 1.
2 These 2009 LTIP awards had different performance conditions to those granted to other executives and managers in order to incentivise exceptional
performance. 
See p 88
for more 
information
Vesting 
events 
FY2012 [ 89] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION POLICY (CONTINUED)
Comparator groups of companies for RTSR
The Committee regularly reviews the RTSR comparator group to ensure that it remains relevant and therefore properly reflects the
returns delivered to shareholders. 
For awards made to 2009, the Committee used a group of twenty metals and mining companies to provide a broadly-based
global mining group with whom the Company was likely to be in competition for executive talent. These companies are set out in
the table below. To assess RTSR, Lonmin’s ranking in the group is determined. Reward only accrues if Lonmin is placed at median
or higher, and full vesting only occurs if Lonmin ranks first or second. 
African Rainbow Minerals Exxaro Resources Rio Tinto 
Anglo American First Quantum Minerals Stillwater Mining
Anglo Gold Ashanti Gold Corp Teck Cominco
Anglo American Platinum Gold Fields Umicore
Antofagasta Impala Platinum Vale
Aquarius Platinum Johnson Matthey Xstrata
BHP Billiton Norilsk Nickel
For awards made from August 2010 onwards, to reflect the divergence of the primary PGM market from the mining sector
generally and ensure a fairer comparison, the Committee used a group of five primary PGM producers, four of whom also operate
principally in South Africa:
Anglo American Platinum Impala Platinum Stillwater Mining
Aquarius Platinum Northam Platinum
Given this small peer group, a ranking approach could lead to perverse outcomes were the Group’s results to be tightly clustered,
with very small differences in RTSR potentially leading to large differences in rank. Therefore Lonmin’s TSR performance is
compared to the median of the group.
Executive Share Options
Other than the ASAP awards detailed in this report, no executive share options have been granted since 2003. See Appendix 1 for
details of these historic share options.
Dilution
The rules of the Company’s employee share plans limit the total commitment to issue new shares across all plans to 10% of issued
share capital. Since the Company does not operate all-employee schemes due to exchange controls and for other local South
African reasons, shareholders have agreed on a number of occasions that the whole of this 10% can be used for discretionary
share plans. In practice, the total commitment is well within the 5% inner limit that would otherwise apply.
Historic Executive Share Options Schemes (ESOS) options are satisfied with new-issued shares. Awards under the LTIP and
historic DABP Matched Awards are satisfied either with shares purchased in the market by the Company’s employee benefit trust
or the issue of new shares. Awards under the S&P are currently settled in new issue shares, but could be settled in cash at the
Committee’s discretion. 
The table below shows the Company’s current commitment to issue new shares in respect of its long-term incentive schemes
assuming that all performance conditions are met, all award holders remain in employment to the vesting date and all awards are
settled in new issue shares, in line with the Committee’s current policy.
% of Vested / Other % of
At issued shares equity At issued 
30.09.11 share Granted issued Lapsed issued 30.09.12 share
(m) capital (m) (m) (m) (m) (m) capital
Undiluted issued share capital 202.7 100 – 0.4 –– 203.1 100
Shares under awards 4.0 1.97 4.3 (0.4) (0.9) – 7.0 3.45
Fully diluted issued share capital 206.7 210.10
       
Limit: 10% in 10 years 20.3 20.31
Remaining headroom 16.3 13.31
See p 100
for more 
information
Historic 
share 
schemes  [ 90] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION POLICY (CONTINUED)
Shareholding obligation
In 2010 the Committee was asked by shareholders to consider whether the remuneration programme had sufficiently long-term
characteristics, and specifically whether the period over which rewards are assessed or earned should be longer than three years.
The Committee considered these concerns, and concluded that the most effective way to align the interests of executives and
shareholders in the long-term was to increase the shareholding obligation target levels to those set out below, placing real personal
wealth at risk.
Strategic alignment of the pay programme
The pay elements detailed above combine to incentivise the delivery of operational results and value to shareholders, in line with
the Committee’s overall objectives. Change is only made where there is a clear rationale, in order to preserve clear performance
goals for participating executives.
Purpose Policy How it operates
• Ensure alignment of executive and
shareholder interests
• Executives are expected to
accumulate (over five years) and then
maintain a material holding of
Company shares, scaled in line with
their seniority
• Target shareholding should be equal
in value to the following percentages
of notional base salary:
CEO: 300% 
CFO: 200% 
Exco Members and NEDs: 100%
Members of Purview Group: 50%
Policy objective
Clear incentive for delivery 
of strategic objectives
Alignment with shareholders’ 
long-term interests
80% of BSC linked to strategically-
aligned corporate KPIs (see page 94)
20% of BSC linked to stretching 
personal objectives aligned to 
strategic goals
ASAP award value equal to gross bonus
earned annually, with vesting delayed
until three years from date of grant
Shareholding obligation
LTIP performance condition
Corporate KPIs from BSC 
averaged over three financial years
combined with
TSR relative to PGM peer group 
median over three years
Short term incentives Long term incentives
Á
Á
Á Á
Á
Á
See p 99
Value of 
each 
Director’s
current 
shareholding
against 
target [ 91] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION POLICY (CONTINUED)
Intended effect of policy for Executive Directors
The charts below illustrate the total pay of the Executive Directors for different levels of performance, and the sources of that
remuneration. Threshold is the first point at which any element of bonus is payable, and forms the minimum level of achievement
for which any part of the LTIP awards can vest.
CEO – Ian Farmer
CFO and Acting CEO – Simon Scott
At ‘target’ levels of performance, around 55% of the Mr Farmer’s total pay, and around 65% of Mr Scott’s total pay, arises from
performance-related elements, rising to over 70% at ‘stretch’ levels for Mr Farmer and Mr Scott, at which point total pay is
capped. The Committee is satisfied that there is a strong incentive for the prudent management of risk. 
Non-Group directorships 
It is both the Company’s policy and generally a requirement of the individual’s contract of employment that the Executive Directors
may only take up non-executive directorships or similar appointments with the approval of the Board. The Board would not
normally agree to an Executive Director taking on more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or the
chairmanship of such a company. No Executive Director currently holds any non-executive directorship or other appointment
outside the Group. Whilst it would be considered on a case-by-case basis, any individual holding such a role would generally be
permitted to retain any fees or other payments relating to that appointment.
Notice periods, service contracts and other contractual arrangements
The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Code regarding service contracts. All notice periods are one year or less.
The company may opt to pay in lieu of any unworked notice period, with only base salary and contractual benefits payable. The
ability of the Company to impose restrictions on the departing executive, including the non-solicitation of key staff, is important and
appropriate provisions are included in their contracts to this effect. Otherwise there is no pre-determined compensation for
termination. 
The Committee is responsible for deciding whether any further discretionary payment should be made on termination of an
Executive Director’s employment and applies the provisions of the Code and other best practice to the facts of each case in doing
so, recognising and reflecting the individual’s duty to mitigate their loss where appropriate. Our policy is to avoid rewarding poor
performance and to minimise the Company’s expenditure whilst fairly recognising long and successful service.
500 1,000
(£000s)
1,500 2,000
Below 
Threshold
Target
Stretch
Salary Pensions ASAP Benefits in kind Bonus LTIP
0
Below 
Threshold
Target
Stretch
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
(%)
500 1,000 1,500 2,000
(£000s)
2,500 3,000 3,500
Below 
Threshold
Target
Stretch
Salary Pensions ASAP Benefits in kind Bonus LTIP
0
Below 
Threshold
Target
Stretch
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
(%)
See p 99
for more 
information
Directors’
service 
contracts
and
letters of 
appointment [ 92] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION IN FY2012
Directors’ remuneration
The total cash remuneration paid to all Directors in FY2012 was £2,395,153 (2011 – £4,278,470). 
Non-executive Directors
No options or awards of any kind have been granted to Non-executive Directors. Non-executive fees were last reviewed in July
2011 in the light of an independent market review, and no increases were made. Non-executive Directors’ fees in respect of
FY2012 are set out below. 
Safety and Other Total for Total for
Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability Transformation Qualifying year to year to
Directorship Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Services
2
30.09.12 30.09.11
Non-executive Directors ££ £ £ £ ££ ££
Karen de Segundo M 50,000 M 10,000 M 10,000 M 7,500 M 7,500 –– 85,000 76,974
Michael Hartnall
1
M 16,154 M 3,231 M 3,231 M 2,423 –– – 29,885 98,503
S 4,846
Len Konar M 50,000 – C 17,500 M 7,500 – M 7,500 – 82,500 75,647
Jonathan Leslie M 50,000 M 10,000 – M 7,500 C 12,500 –– 80,000 80,000
David Munro M 50,000 –– M 7,500 M 7,500 M 7,500 – 72,500 66,481
Roger Phillimore M 50,000 –– C 12,500 –– – 262,500 262,500
C 200,000
Cyril Ramaphosa M 50,000 ––– – C 12,500 – 62,500 61,154
Mahomed Seedat
3
M 50,000 ––– M 7,500 M 7,500 69,070 134,070 77,082
5
Jim Sutcliffe
4
M 50,000 C 17,500 M 10,000 M 7,500 – M 7,500 – 102,730 91,692
S 10,230
Total 631,230 40,731 40,731 52,423 35,000 42,500 69,070 911,685 890,033
This table and the associated footnotes have been subject to audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
Key: C = Chairman, S = Senior Independent Director, M = Member 
1 FY2012 fees for Mr Hartnall relate to the period from 1 October 2011 to his retirement on 26 January 2012. 
2 Mr Seedat provides ad hoc consultancy services to the Company under a separate consultancy agreement. His payments in Rand pursuant to this
agreement have been converted into £s using the average ZAR:GBP exchange rate for FY2012 of £1 = R12.6827. See page 100 for further details.
3 FY2011 fees for Mr Seedat relate to the period 1 January 2011 to 30 September 2011.
4 FY2012 fees for Mr Sutcliffe reflect his appointment as Senior Independent Director on Mr Hartnall’s retirement on 26 January 2012, with both directors
paid fees in respect of this office attributable to the day of transition.
5 FY2011 fees for Mr Seedat have been restated to include amounts paid in respect of his consultancy agreement and attributable to FY2011, which have
been converted in Sterling using the average ZAR:GBP rate for FY2011 of R11.1498. 
Executive Directors
Mr Farmer’s and Mr Scott’s pay was increased by 2.5% on 1 October 2011, in line with underlying UK inflation data to preserve,
but not increase, their pay in real terms. 
In considering this decision, the Remuneration Committee took into account pay elsewhere in the Group, which increased during
the financial year by 5% for other UK-based employees, 6.5% for mid-level management in South Africa and 9%-10% for
unionised manual workers.
The table below sets out each Executive Director’s fixed pay, benefits and cash bonuses for FY2012. For details of the Executive
Directors’ share awards and other long-term incentives, see page 97. 
Pension /
cash payment Total for Total for
Benefits in in lieu of Annual year to year to
Salary
1
kind
2
pension
3
Bonuses Other
4
30.09.12
5
30.09.11
5
£££ ££££
Ian Farmer 579,000 155,480 199,125 –– 933,605 1,220,629
Simon Scott 325,850 15,375 65,168 130,311 13,159 549,863 557,268
Total 904,850 170,855 264,293 130,311 13,159 1,483,468 1,777,897
This table and the associated footnotes have been subject to audit by KPMG Audit Plc. 
1 Historically, as is usual in South Africa, Mr Scott’s fixed remuneration was expressed in the form of “TCTC” which included the cash value of certain
benefits which would have been itemised separately for a UK employee. To ensure that his short and long-term incentives did not reflect these items, 
Mr Scott was deemed to have a notional salary equal to 80% of his TCTC for these purposes. To maintain this position following the decision to adopt a
dual-contract structure for Mr Scott (see page 99) his TCTC was redenominated as a fixed Sterling amount and reallocated across both contracts such
that his aggregate salary was equal to 80% of his TCTC under the previous structure. Accordingly, his aggregate fixed remuneration has been itemised 
in the table as for a UK employee.
2 Benefits in kind for the UK remunerated Executive Directors comprise cars, fuel, healthcare and medicals. The costs of life assurance and income
protection insurance are not reflected as the Company is the named beneficiary of these policies. Ian Farmer’s total benefits include costs of £127,863
relating to his secondment to South Africa and comprise housing allowance, home leave/family visits and local private medical insurance. [ 93] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION IN FY2012 (CONTINUED)
Executive Directors (continued)
3 Mr Farmer opted for pension entitlements to be paid in cash. The figure disclosed for Mr Farmer reflects this cash payment and in addition his entitlement
to a pension cash supplement, explained below. Mr Farmer’s entitlement to this supplement ceased in June 2012. The Company contributes an amount
equal to 20.52% of Simon Scott’s pensionable basic salary under his South African contract, which is remitted as a Company contribution to a defined
contribution plan. The remainder of his pensions entitlements under both contracts are paid in cash.
4 ‘Other’ for Mr Scott includes payments attributable to FY2012 in respect of his role as acting CEO since 24 August 2012. For further details of these
arrangements see page 94. 
5 Although the Group’s reporting currency is US Dollars, these figures are stated in Sterling. In FY2011 Mr Farmer was paid in Sterling whilst Mr Scott was
paid in Rand, and the FY2011 conversion uses the average ZAR:GBP rate for FY2011 of R11.1498. For FY2012, Mr Scott’s fixed remuneration was
redenominated as a Sterling liability (see footnote 1 above).
6 In addition to the amounts in the table, the Executive Directors received long-term share incentives as detailed elsewhere in this report. The Directors’
total emoluments for the year do not include any fair value share option / award charges.
7 No Director received any expense allowances during the year.
Purview Group
In addition to the Executive Directors, the remuneration of nineteen other senior executives, the vast majority of whom are
employed in South Africa, fall within the purview of the Committee. The base salaries (UK employees) or TCTC (SA employees) for
those employed at the end of FY2012 fell within the following bands:
Number of Number of 
executives executives
Salary bands FY2012
1
FY2011
2
£100,000 to £150,000 1–
£150,000 to £200,000 11 7
£200,000 to £250,000 56
£250,000 to £300,000 22
£300,000 to £400,000 ––
1 Average ZAR:GBP exchange rate for FY2012 of £1 = R12.6827 used. 
2 Average ZAR:GBP exchange rate for FY2011 of £1 = R11.1498 used.
In addition, Purview Group executives participate in short and long-term incentive arrangements as detailed in the Remuneration
Policy section.
Former Directors
Mr Ferguson, a former director of the Company, was engaged to provide consultancy services to Lonmin in the aftermath of the
Events at Marikana and the liquidity pressures which this placed on the Company. The value of these services attributable to
FY2012 is £46,000. 
Pensions
Former defined benefit pension scheme arrangements
The Company closed its defined benefit pension scheme in June 2007, and subsequently wound this up on an orderly basis. 
All UK employees who were active members when the scheme was withdrawn were provided with a non-pensionable and 
non-bonusable salary supplement for five years from that date to partially compensate them for the loss caused by their accrued
benefits ceasing to be linked to future salary growth, which ceased on 30 June 2012. As a former member of the scheme, 
Mr Farmer received a salary supplement of £25,425 in FY2012.
The Company also increased the level of life assurance and income continuance insurance provided to this group for the duration
of their continued employment, to reflect (respectively) the loss of the spouse’s and ill-health early retirement pensions provided by
the scheme. 
Current pension arrangements
UK based executives are provided with a pension supplement, which may be taken either as a pension contribution to a defined
contribution plan, or in cash. The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for the benefit of its UK employees.
No Executive Directors are members of this scheme, and in FY2012 Ian Farmer received a payment equal to 30% of base salary,
which he elected to take in cash.
In South Africa the Company and Group participate in an industry wide defined contribution pension plan. The Company
contributes an amount equal to 20.52% of Simon Scott’s pensionable basic salary under his South African contract, which is
remitted as a Company contribution to this plan. 
No element of any Director’s remuneration other than base salary is pensionable. Except as disclosed above, the Company has
given no undertakings to arrange or bear the cost of any other pension benefits for any Director. No former Director enjoys pension
benefits in excess of those that would have been provided, in accordance with the historic provisions of the trust deeds and rules,
to all members of the relevant former scheme. [ 94] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION IN FY2012 (CONTINUED)
Life assurance
As a former member of the UK defined benefit pension scheme, Ian Farmer is provided with life assurance benefits of eight times
salary, for the reasons noted above, as a contractual benefit. Simon Scott’s contracts of employment provide for life assurance
benefits of four times annual salary. All of these benefits are fully insured.
Interim arrangements regarding Mr Scott’s Role as Acting CEO 
On 24 August 2012, in view of Mr Farmer’s illness (see page 8), Mr Scott was appointed Acting CEO. Accordingly, his
remuneration was increased in FY2012 by £13,159 to take account of his additional responsibilities. Of this, £10,550.58 was
attributable to an increase to his base salary of £99,150 p.a. to be applied for the duration of his appointment, with his other
contractual benefits scaled up accordingly during the applicable period. The Committee considered that it was appropriate to take
account of this increase to Mr Scott’s base salary when assessing the value of his BSC Bonus award for FY2012, and in the future.
Mr Farmer’s remuneration in FY2012 was not adjusted as a result of his absence from 24 August to 30 September 2012, in
keeping with the provisions of his contract of employment. 
Annual bonus
FY2012 required a continuing focus on the Company’s cost base, while delivering increased production targets and minimising the
risks to the Company (safety, development and transformation objectives). The BSC was therefore designed to ensure the
Company focused on delivering these strategic objectives, which largely reflect the corporate Key Performance Indicators shown
on pages 24 and 25.
In view of the tragic Events at Marikana, the Committee has determined bonuses for FY2012 on the basis of the BSC to the end of
July 2012, but with no bonus payable for the months of August and September 2012. It believes that the resulting payment is fair
to both management and shareholders. The results set out in the table below have been determined on this basis. 
% of bonus Actual
opportunity payment
on offer for for the year
Target Actual target (% of bonus
Strategic element Metric performance performance performance opportunity)
Safety: improvement in lost time Percentage improvement on 5% LTIFR 15% 15.1%
injury frequency rate FY2011 (with multiplier based improvement improved by
on number of fatalities – 5 11.5% but
fatalities or more means zero 2 fatalities
achievement) occurred in
the year
Transformation: meeting % HDSAs in management roles 35% 36% 5% 6.3%
employment equity targets
% HDSAs in senior management roles 31% 32% 5% 6.3%
Platinum production Pt oz in finished metal 765,500 687,372 20% 0.0%
Available ore reserves Square metres 3,369,685 3,327,795 5% 3.8%
Primary haulage development Linear metres of haulages created 38,404 34,756 5% 0.0%
Operating unit costs Rands per PGM oz 8,009 8,507 15% 0.0%
PGM instantaneous recovery rate % 80.2% 82.4% 10% 15.0%
Subtotal: Corporate KPIs 80% 46.3%
Personal 3-4 stretching personal goals 20% 0%
1
Total 100% 46.3%
1
1 Average for Ian Farmer and Simon Scott.
The scorecard incentivises production rather than sales to eliminate the impacts that would otherwise result from unsold stocks of
finished materials held at year ends.
All corporate results were agreed to supporting data by KPMG.
Bonus payments to the Executive Directors
No bonus was awarded to Mr Farmer for FY2012 for the reasons explained in the Committee Chairman’s letter on page 81. The
bonus payment to be paid to Mr Scott for FY2012 equates to 46.3% of the target level of bonus and, as explained on page 96,
38% of his aggregate annual salary under his UK and South African contracts (taking into account the uplift in respect of his role as
Acting CEO since 24 August 2012). As noted on that page, an ASAP award will be made to Mr Scott at the time that the bonus is
paid with a face value equal to the gross value of his FY2012 bonus payment.  [ 95] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION IN FY2012 (CONTINUED)
Cash retention award to Simon Scott
On 11 September 2012 the Committee approved the basis of an exceptional one-off cash retention award to Mr Scott, to help
provide immediate stability for the Company following Mr Scott’s appointment as Acting CEO on 24 August 2012 and in the midst of
the multiple issues facing the Company at that time. The Company would normally have consulted shareholders in advance of
making such an award, but considered that the extraordinary circumstances made it advisable to create certainty for the Company. 
Following discussion by the Committee as to the precise terms of the performance condition, the award was granted on 
7 November 2012, with a face value of £814,625, being 2.5 times Mr Scott’s CFO basic salary for FY2012. The award will vest 
on 7 November 2015, subject to a performance condition requiring that the average corporate BSC performance for FY 2013,
FY2014 and FY 2015 must be at or above threshold and in addition Mr Scott’s average performance in respect of his personal
KPIs under the BSC for the same financial years must exceed 65%. If either of these tests is not met, the entire award will lapse 
in full. The award is subject to continued employment with “Good Leaver” provisions applying in specified circumstances (for
example death, ill-health or redundancy), or at the Committee’s discretion. Should Mr Scott be classified as a “Good Leaver” the
performance condition will be assessed in relation to completed financial years, with the Committee making such adjustments 
as it considers appropriate to take account of the shortened performance period. If the performance condition is met, the award
will vest immediately, subject to pro-rating for time. Otherwise it will lapse in full. On a change of control of the Company, the
Committee will consider whether the performance condition has been satisfied in relation to the relevant period using the same
procedure. However, the vesting date will not change, unless the Committee determines otherwise, and the award will not be 
pro-rated for time. If the performance condition is not satisfied the award will lapse in full. Otherwise the award will be paid on the
vesting date, or, if earlier, upon Mr Scott ceasing to be employed by the Group (unless he resigns other than in circumstances
constituting constructive dismissal, ceases to be employed without giving or receiving notice, or his employment is terminated 
for a reason which would have justified summary dismissal, in which case the award will lapse in full).  
Only Mr Scott is eligible to receive such an award, and the provisions of the award in relation to its maximum value, the
performance condition and the basis of vesting cannot be altered to the advantage of Mr Scott without the prior approval of
shareholders in general meeting (except for minor amendments to take account of legislative change, or tax or regulatory
treatment, or of an administrative nature). The award is not pensionable. The terms of the award are available for inspection at 
the Company’s Registered Office. 
Long term Incentives
LTIP Awards
On 28 September 2012, LTIP and S&P awards were made to a number of managers. The closing mid-market share price on 
that date was 557.5p but the strike price, being the average for the final twenty working days of August 2012 in line with the
Company’s protocols, was 672p. Vesting of these awards is subject to the achievement of the performance conditions detailed 
on page 87. No LTIP awards were made to either of the Executive Directors during the year. 
Maturities
A number of awards reached maturity on the third anniversary of their dates of grant during the year:
• DABP – On 2 December 2011 the historic 2008 DABP matched awards matured. The performance condition was: 
• RTSR element (50% of performance award) – this was based on Lonmin TSR relative to a group of 20 mining and metals
companies over the three years ending to 30 June 2014. The Company finished below median and this portion of the
award did not vest 
• Share Price element (50% of performance award) – this was based on the average Lonmin share price on the London
Stock Exchange in the three month period leading up to 30 June 2014. Lonmin finished below threshold and therefore this
portion of the award did not vest
• Retention element (for managers other than the Executive Directors) (100% of retention award) – as this required only
continued service, this portion of the outstanding awards vested in full
• LTIP – On 7 January 2012 the LTIP awards granted on 7 January 2009 matured. The performance condition was:
• RTSR element (50% of performance award) – this was based on Lonmin TSR relative to a group of 20 mining and metals
companies over the three years ending 31 October 2011. The Company finished below median and this portion of the
award did not vest
• Share Price element (50% of performance award) – this was based on the average Lonmin share price on the London
Stock Exchange in the three month period leading up to 31 October 2011. The Company finished below threshold and
therefore this portion of the award did not vest
• LTIP – On 14 September 2012 the LTIP and S&P awards granted on 14 September 2009 matured. The performance condition
for the LTIP award granted to Ian Farmer was:
• RTSR element (one-third of performance award) – this was based on Lonmin TSR relative to a group of 20 mining and
metals companies over the three years ending 31 August 2012. The Company finished below median and this portion of
the award did not vest
• Share Price element (two-thirds of performance award) – this was based on the average Lonmin share price on the London
Stock Exchange in the three month period leading up to 31 August 2012, with two thresholds each tied to one-third of the
performance award. The Company finished below both thresholds and therefore this portion of the award did not vest 
See p 100
for more 
information
DABP 
Scheme [ 96] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION IN FY2012 (CONTINUED)
Maturities (continued)
The performance conditions for the LTIP and S&P performance awards granted to executives and managers was:
• RTSR element (50% of performance award) – as for the RTSR element of the award granted to Mr Farmer. The Company
finished below median and this portion of the award did not vest
• Share Price element (50% of performance award) – as for the Share Price element of the award granted to Mr Farmer, but with
only one threshold. Lonmin finished beneath this threshold and therefore this portion of the award did not vest.
The LTIP and S&P retention awards which matured on this date vested. However, those members of the Exco who were entitled to
receive these awards waived their entitlement voluntarily. 
Make up of Executive Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of the two Executive Directors attributable to FY2012 is set out below:
Ian Farmer Simon Scott
Notes to the charts
1 Benefits in kind are stated at their taxable value or the cost incurred by the Company where not taxable, as per footnote 2 to the table at the bottom of
page 92.
2 The cash bonus amount is the pre-tax amount payable in respect of the year. 
3 See page 87 for details regarding ASAP awards. 
4 Pension is stated at the cash cost to the Company.
5 Base salary for Mr Scott includes the uplift in respect of his appointment as Acting CEO since 24 August 2012.
In FY2012, performance-related pay therefore comprised 0% of Mr Farmer’s total remuneration of £933,605 and 38% of 
Mr Scott’s total remuneration of £680,174. For details of the cash retention award granted to Mr Scott on 7 November 2012, in
FY2013, see page 95. 
62%
21%
17%
Pensions £199,125
Benefits in kind £155,480
Salary £579,000
50%
10%
2%
19%
19%
Pensions £65,168
Benefits in kind £15,375
Base Salary £339,009
ASAP £130,311
Bonus £130,311
See p 90
Strategic
alignment 
of the 
Executive 
Directors’
pay [ 97] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION IN FY2012 (CONTINUED)
Directors’ awards in respect of Lonmin shares
The awards held by Directors over ordinary shares of the Company at the end of the year ending 30 September 2012, and their
transactions during that year, are set out in the table below:
During year
Market Market
price National value
Vested at date of pre-tax as at
Performance Date of As at and As at Vesting vesting gain 30.09.12
3
Scheme
1
condition
2
Grant 30.09.11 Granted released Lapsed 30.09.12 date (p) (£) (£)
Executive Directors
Ian Farmer
DABP MA (a) 02.12.08 9,296 –– 9,296 – 02.12.11 N.A. Nil Nil
LTIP (a) 07.01.09 15,718 –– 15,718 – 07.01.12 N.A. Nil Nil
LTIP (b) 14.09.09 57,152 –– 57,152 – 14.09.12 N.A. Nil Nil
LTIP (c) 02.08.10 51,886 –– – 51,886 02.08.13 –– 289,264
LTIP (c) 03.08.11 58,223 –– – 58,223 03.08.14 –– 324,593
ASAP
6
(d) 12.12.11 – 27,628 –– 27,628 12.12.14 –– 154,026
Total –– 192,275 27,628 – 82,166 137,737 –– – 767,884
Simon Scott
LTIP (c) 29.09.10 20,434 – –– 20,434 29.09.13 –– 113,920
LTIP (c) 03.08.11 22,481 – –– 22,481 03.08.14 –– 125,332
ASAP
6
(d) 12.12.11 – 13,180 –– 13,180 12.12.14 –– 73,479
Total –– 42,915 13,180 – – 56,095 – – – 312,731 
This table and the associated footnotes have been subject to Audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
1 Key to schemes: DABP MA = Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Matched Awards (see page 95); LTIP = Long Term Incentive Plan Awards (see page 95); and
ASAP = Annual Share Award Plan (see page 87).
2 Key to performance conditions:
(a) 50% RTSR (Global mining group) / 50% Share Price (see page 88);
(b) 33% RTSR (Global mining group) / 66% Share Price (see page 88);
(c) BSC / RTSR (PGM peers) (see page 88); and
(d) automatic vesting subject to continued service.
3 Value is calculated using the closing middle market quotation for Lonmin shares at 28 September 2012 (557.5p) and assumes (save in the case of shares
that have lapsed) continued service and full vesting.
4 The closing middle market quotation for the Company’s ordinary shares, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, was 557.5p on
28 September 2012, and the price ranged between 529.5p and 1166p during the financial year. 
5 Other than as regards ASAP , when awards vest shares are transferred to the participant. To maintain a close alignment with shareholders’ interests, cash
equal to the dividends that would have accrued on these shares during the performance period is also paid, at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion.
During FY2012, no share awards to either Mr Farmer or Mr Scott vested, and so no amounts were payable to them in line with this policy.
6 ASAP awards are structured as nil-cost options, which upon vesting may be exercised from the third anniversary of grant until the tenth anniversary of
grant at the recipients’ discretion. 
    
     [ 98] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION IN FY2012 (CONTINUED)
Value at risk
The following tables illustrate the value each Executive Director has at risk and how this component of personal wealth has
fluctuated during the year, based on: (a) the shares; and (b) the share options and awards (assuming full vesting and that they were
held throughout the year); held by each as at 30 September 2012: 
Number of 
Executive Directors shares held Low (£) High (£) Closing (£)
Date 05 September 28 October 28 September
2012 2011 2012
Share price (p) 529.5p 1166p 557.5p
Ian Farmer 79,712
1
422,075 929,442 444,394
Simon Scott –– ––
1 Mr Farmer’s shareholding includes 32,741 shares purchased under the DABP and held via the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust, of which 18,883 will be
released on or after 24 November 2012 and 13,858 will be released on or after 07 December 2013, in each case subject only to continued service (see
page 100). 
Number of shares
Executive Directors under options or awards Low (£) High (£) Closing (£)
Date 05 September 28 October 28 September
2012 2011 2012
Share price (p) 529.5p 1166p 557.5p
Ian Farmer 137,737 729,317 1,606,013 767,884
Simon Scott 56,095 297,023 654,068 312,730
Shareholder value performance
The primary role of the Directors is to deliver value to shareholders and it is against this backdrop that their remuneration must be
assessed. The graphs below show the value, at 30 September 2012, of £100 invested in Lonmin’s shares five years previously,
compared with the current value in Sterling terms of the same amount invested at the same date in: (a) the FTSE 100 index; and
(b) the median of the PGM peer group detailed on page 89, assuming dividends and other benefits were reinvested in each case.
These comparators are used since the Company has been a constituent member of the FTSE 100 for the majority of this five-year
period and the PGM peer group is used to assess RTSR pursuant to the performance conditions for the LTIP (see page 87). The
Board believes that these comparisons most fairly illustrate the Company’s performance.
(%)
Oct
2007
Oct
2008
Oct
2009
Oct
2010
Oct
2011
Oct
2012
PGM Peer Group
FTSE 100
Lonmin
-100
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60 [ 99] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION IN FY2012 (CONTINUED)
Directors’ shareholdings (continued)
As noted on page 99, Executive Directors and other executives are subject to a shareholding obligation. The Board continues to
recommend that Non-executive Directors also hold Lonmin shares, with a target value of 100% of their base fees, to ensure that
shareholder value informs all Board decisions. The table below sets out the shareholdings of each Director in office during FY2012,
together with the market value of such interests as a percentage of their base pay / fees as at 30 September 2012 and 30
September 2011.
Market value of Market value of
shareholding at shareholding at
Target 30 September 30 September
At 30.09.12 At 30.09.11 shareholding 2012 as a 2011 as a 
or earlier date or later date as a % of % of FY2012 % of FY2011
of retirement of appointment base salary / base salary / base salary / 
Director (Shares)
1
(Shares)
1
base NED fee base NED fee base NED fee
Ian Farmer
2
79,712 79,712 300% 77% 148%
Len Konar 1,500 – 100% 17% –
Jonathan Leslie 4,900 4,900 100% 55% 103%
David Munro 7,700 7,700 100% 86% 162%
Roger Phillimore 22,750 22,750 100% 254% 478%
Cyril Ramaphosa
3
– – 100% – –
Simon Scott – – 200% – –
Mahomed Seedat 30,621 30,621 100% 341% 644%
Karen de Segundo 2,108 2,108 100% 24% 44%
Jim Sutcliffe 4,536 4,536 100% 51% 95%
Former Director
Michael Hartnall 4,888 4,888 n/a – 103%
1 Shareholding includes shares held via nominees. 
2 Mr Farmer’s shareholding includes 32,741 shares purchased under the DABP and held via the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust, of which 18,883 will be
released on or after 24 November 2012 and 13,858 will be released on or after 07 December 2013, in each case subject only to continued service (see
page 100).
3 Mr Ramaphosa is a major shareholder in and chairman of Shanduka Group, which controls Incwala. This latter company has an 18% equity interest in
Lonmin’s principal South African operating subsidiaries, which comprise all of the Group’s operational activities and substantially the whole of the Group’s
assets. As a result, Mr Ramaphosa has a very significant, but indirect, personal interest in Lonmin’s business.
There were no changes in the serving Directors’ interests from 30 September 2012 to the date of this report. The Executive
Directors’ potential shareholdings subject to deferral or performance conditions are set out on page 97. No Non-executive Director
has any share options or participates in any share schemes. 
The table illustrates the short-term effect that Directors’ shareholdings, when expressed as a percentage of their fixed
remuneration, vary in line with the Company’s share price over the financial year, but also demonstrates the fluctuations in personal
value held at risk: the comparison against figures for FY2011 shows that the value of these shareholdings were mostly at or above
target prior to this occurring. 
Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment
Mr Farmer’s contract is dated 20 October 2008. His entitlement to remuneration is summarised above. His employment is
terminable by 364 days’ written notice given by either the Company or Mr Farmer. The company may opt to pay in lieu of any
unworked notice period, with only base salary and contractual benefits payable. Otherwise Mr Farmer has no contractual
entitlement to compensation in the event of termination. In keeping with market practice certain circumstances entitle the
Company to summarily dismiss Mr Farmer, for example in circumstances of gross misconduct, negligence, default or
disqualification by law.
Mr Scott has two separate employment contracts, one with Lonmin Plc and one with Western Platinum Limited, one of the
Company’s principal South African operating subsidiaries. His aggregate entitlement to remuneration under these contracts is
summarised above, but each contract reflects Mr Scott’s specific role and responsibilities with the applicable entity and constitutes
a legally distinct and independent employment relationship. The effective date for both contracts is 1 October 2011, and both are
dated 29 October 2012. Both are terminable by 12 months’ written notice by the Company, or 6 months’ written notice by Mr
Scott. The company may opt to pay in lieu of any unworked notice period, with only base salary and contractual benefits payable.
The Company has the right to reduce any such payments at its reasonable discretion in accordance with Mr Scott’s duty to
mitigate his loss. Otherwise Mr Scott has no contractual entitlement to compensation in the event of termination. In keeping with
market practice certain circumstances entitle the Company to summarily dismiss Mr Scott, for example gross misconduct,
negligence, default or disqualification by law.  [ 100] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Remuneration Committee Report
for the year ended 30 September 2012
REMUNERATION IN FY2012 (CONTINUED)
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts, but have letters of appointment from the Company:
Non-executive Directors Date of appointment Date of letter of appointment Term
Len Konar 11 March 2010 17 March 2010 Until AGM 2014
1
Jonathan Leslie 4 June 2009 4 June 2009 Until AGM 2013
1
David Munro 10 August 2007 10 October 2012 Until AGM 2014 subject to annual re-election
Roger Phillimore 11 September 1997 11 October 2012 Until AGM 2013 subject to annual re-election
Cyril Ramaphosa 13 July 2010 18 October 2010 Until AGM 2014
1
Mahomed Seedat 1 January 2011 27 January 2011 Until AGM 2014 subject to annual re-election
Karen de Segundo 29 April 2005 11 October 2012 Until AGM 2014 subject to annual re-election
Jim Sutcliffe 10 August 2007 11 October 2012 Until AGM 2014 subject to annual re-election
1 These appointment letters will be updated upon expiry in the light of the Company’s policy re: annual re-election. 
The Non-executive Directors are entitled to annual fees as set out on page 92, which are paid monthly in arrears. No
compensation is payable to the Non-executive Directors for loss of office. 
In addition, Mr Seedat has a consultancy agreement dated 17 December 2010, and effective from 1 January 2011, under which
he provides ad hoc consultancy services to the Company. His remuneration in this role was initially at a rate of R 11,700 per day
with a minimum of R 35,100 per month (equating to three days’ service), together with reasonable costs incurred by him
(accommodation, travel and out-of-pocket expenses). His daily rate was increased to R 25,000 per day effective from 15 August
2012 to reflect the additional duties which he assumed in support of the Executive Committee in the light of the Events at
Marikana. The agreement can be terminated by 90 days’ written notice by either party, with no compensation payable. 
All Directors stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report was approved by the Board on 8 November 2012.
For and on behalf of the Board
Jim Sutcliffe
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
APPENDIX
Historic long-term incentive arrangements
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP)
In 2008, prior to the introduction of ASAP , Executives were eligible to participate in the DABP , making a voluntary investment of
between zero and 100% of their after tax bonus. These funds were used to make market purchases of Lonmin shares to be held
in the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust and released on the third anniversary of purchase subject to continued service. The
executive also received a ‘Matched Award’ which, subject to the attainment of performance conditions, could enable up to 1:1
matching of the shares bought, on an after tax basis. The performance conditions used in 2008 were the same as those used for
the LTIP awarded on 7 January 2009 (see page 95).
In 2009 and 2010, participants in the plan were obliged to invest between one-third and 100% (at their discretion) of their after tax
bonus in the DABP , on the same terms, but with no ‘Matched Awards’ made. 
The DABP has now been superseded by the ASAP and the Company does not currently envisage granting any DABP Matched
Awards in the future.
Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS)
These legacy schemes expired in March 2007 and, although an option scheme is contained within the rules of the Shareholder
Value Incentive Plan, the Committee has not made, and does not intend to make, any grants under that scheme.
Awards made since 1994 have been subject to performance conditions. Details of these conditions for the Company’s various
tranches of executive share options that remain outstanding are as follows:
• Options granted in or after 1998 but before 2002: TSR must exceed the total return of the Mining Sector of the FTSE
Actuaries Share Indices over any consecutive thirty-six month period.
• Options granted in or after 2002: TSR must exceed the total return of the Mining Sector of the FTSE Actuaries Share Indices
in one of the periods of three, four, five or six years following the date of grant, in each case relative to a fixed base year.
The performance conditions attaching to the ESOS options have been fulfilled and all these options are exercisable. 04 / 
      Financial Statements
     
102  Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc
103  Responsibility Statement of the Directors in Respect 
of the Annual Report and Accounts
104  Consolidated Income Statement
104  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
105  Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
106  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
107  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
108  Notes to the Accounts
144  Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet
145  Notes to the Company Accounts
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance [ 102] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the Members of Lonmin Plc
We have audited the financial statements of Lonmin Plc 
for the year ended 30 September 2012 which comprise the
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement
of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position, the Company Balance Sheet, the
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as
adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has
been applied in the preparation of the parent company
financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting
Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, 
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so
that we might state to the Company’s members those matters
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a
true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an
opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK
and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the
Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for
Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is
provided on the APB’s website at
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the
state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as
at 30 September 2012 and of the Group’s loss for the year
then ended;
•  the Group financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•  the parent company financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice;
• the financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act
2006; and, as regards the Group financial statements,
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Emphasis of matter – Going concern
In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not
modified, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosure
made in note 1 to the Group financial statements concerning
the Group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue as a
going concern; in particular, the need for shareholder approval
of the planned Rights Issue. This condition, along with the
other matters explained in note 1 to the Group financial
statements, indicate the existence of a material uncertainty
which may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and the
parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The
financial statements do not include the adjustments that would
result if the Group and the parent company were unable to
continue as a going concern.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies
Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the
financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to
you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of
the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited are not
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by
law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations
we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 80, 
in relation to going concern;
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement in the
Directors’ Report – Governance relating to the Company’s
compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the
Board on directors’ remuneration.
Robert M. Seale (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London, E14 5GL
8 November 2012 Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 103]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
Responsibility Statement of the Directors in Respect 
of the Annual Report and Accounts
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of
the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation
taken as a whole; and
• the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks
and uncertainties that they face.
Roger Phillimore Simon Scott
Chairman Chief Financial Officer
8 November 2012 [ 104] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 30 September 
Special Special
2012 items 2012 2011 items 2011
Underlying
i
(note 3) Total Underlying
i
(note 3) Total
Continuing operations Note $m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue 2 1,614 – 1,614 1,992 – 1,992
EBITDA 
ii
193 (169) 24 433 (2) 431
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (126) (600) (726) (122) (2) (124)
Operating (loss) / profit 
iii
4 67 (769) (702) 311 (4) 307
Impairment of available for sale 
financial assets 14 – (6) (6) –––
Finance income 6 5 30 35 5 15 20 
Finance expenses 6 (19) – (19) (10) (33) (43)
Share of (loss) / profit of equity 
accounted investments 13 4 (10) (6) 9 –9
(Loss) / profit before taxation 57 (755) (698) 315 (22) 293
Income tax credit 
iv
7 (39) 187 148 (56) 84 28
(Loss) / profit for the year 18 (568) (550) 259 62 321
Attributable to:
– Equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 15 (425) (410) 226 47 273
– Non-controlling interests 3 (143) (140) 33 15 48
(Loss) / earnings per share 8 (202.3)c 134.8c
Diluted (loss) / earnings per share 
v
8 (202.3)c 134.4c
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 30 September
2012 2011
Total Total
Note $m $m
(Loss) / profit for the year (550) 321
Other comprehensive (expense) / income:
– Change in fair value of available for sale financial assets 14 (8) (20)
– Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges – (9)
– Changes in settled cash flow hedges released to the income statement – 1
– Foreign exchange on retranslation of equity accounted investments 13 (5) (8)
– Deferred tax on items taken directly to the statement of comprehensive income (2) (4)
Total comprehensive (loss) / income for the year (565) 281
Attributable to:
– Equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc (425) 235
– Non-controlling interests (140) 46
(565) 281
Footnotes:
i. Underlying results and earnings per share are based on reported results and earnings per share excluding the effect of special items as defined in note 3. 
ii. EBITDA is operating (loss) / profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment of goodwill, intangibles and property, plant and equipment.
iii. Operating (loss) / profit is defined as revenue less operating expenses before impairment of available for sale financial assets, finance income and
expenses and share of (loss) / profit of equity accounted investments.
iv. The income tax credit substantially relates to overseas taxation and includes net exchange gains of $17 million (2011 – $82 million) as disclosed in note 7.
v. Diluted (loss) / earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive outstanding share options. Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 105]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
as at 30 September
2012 2011
Note $m $m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 40 113 
Intangible assets 11 462 993 
Property, plant and equipment 12 2,889 2,567 
Equity accounted investments 13 157 175 
Other financial assets 14 418 399 
3,966 4,247 
Current assets
Inventories 15 260 384 
Trade and other receivables 16 79 154 
Tax recoverable 3 1 
Cash and cash equivalents 30 315 76 
657 615 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 (328) (354)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 18 (123) (10)
Derivative financial instruments 19 (5) (5)
Deferred revenue 20 (24) –
Tax payable – (2)
(480) (371)
Net current assets 177 244 
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 18 (613) (300)
Derivative financial instruments 19 (10) (9)
Deferred tax liabilities 22 (562) (716)
Deferred revenue 20 (70) –
Provisions 23 (143) (125)
(1,398) (1,150)
Net assets 2,745 3,341 
Capital and reserves
Share capital 25 203 203 
Share premium 25 997 997 
Other reserves 80 80 
Retained earnings 1,208 1,650 
Attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 2,488 2,930 
Attributable to non-controlling interests 257 411 
Total equity 2,745 3,341 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 November 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roger Phillimore Chairman
Simon Scott Chief Financial Officer [ 106] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 30 September
Equity interest
Called Share Non-
up share premium Other Retained controlling Total
capital account reserves
i
earnings
ii
Total interests
iii
equity
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2010 202 997 88 1,422 2,709 373 3,082 
Profit for the year – – – 273 273 48 321 
Total other comprehensive 
(expense) / income: – – (8) (30) (38) (2) (40)
– Change in fair value of available 
for sale financial assets – – – (20) (20) – (20)
– Effective portion of changes in fair 
value of cash flow hedges – – (9) – (9) – (9)
– Changes in settled cash flow 
hedges released to the income 
statement – – 1 – 1 – 1 
– Foreign exchange on retranslation 
of equity accounted investments – – – (6) (6) (2) (8)
– Deferred tax on items taken 
directly to the statement of 
comprehensive income – – – (4) (4) – (4)
Transactions with owners, 
recognised directly in equity: 1 – – (15) (14) (8) (22)
– Share-based payments – – – 15 15 2 17 
– Shares issued on exercise of 
share options 1– –– 1– 1
– Dividends – – – (30) (30) (10) (40)
At 30 September 2011 203 997 80 1,650 2,930 411 3,341 
Equity interest
Called Share Non-
up share premium Other Retained controlling Total
capital account reserves
i
earnings
ii
Total interests
iii
equity
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2011 203 997 80 1,650 2,930 411 3,341
Loss for the year – – – (410) (410) (140) (550)
Total other comprehensive expense: – – – (15) (15) – (15)
– Change in fair value of available 
for sale financial assets – – – (8) (8) – (8)
– Foreign exchange on retranslation 
of equity accounted investments – – – (5) (5) – (5)
– Deferred tax on items taken 
directly to the statement of 
comprehensive income – – – (2) (2) – (2)
Transactions with owners, 
recognised directly in equity: – – – (17) (17) (14) (31)
– Share-based payments – – – 14 14 – 14 
– Shares issued on exercise of 
share options
iv
– – – – – – –
– Dividends – – – (31) (31) (14) (45)
At 30 September 2012 203 997 80 1,208 2,488 257 2,745
Footnotes:
i. Other reserves at 30 September 2012 represent the capital redemption reserve of $88 million (2011 – $88 million) and an $8 million hedging loss net of
deferred tax (2011 – $8 million).               
ii. Retained earnings include $5 million of accumulated credits in respect of fair value movements on available for sale financial assets (2011 – $13 million
accumulated credits) and a $3 million credit of accumulated exchange on retranslation of equity accounted investments (2011 – $8 million credit).
iii. Non-controlling interests represent a 18% shareholding in each of Eastern Platinum Limited, Western Platinum Limited and Messina Limited and a 26%
shareholding in Akanani Mining (Pty) Limited (Akanani).
iv. During the year 400,000 share options were exercised (2011 – 364,924) on which $0.4 million of cash was received (2011 – $1 million).              Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 107]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 30 September
2012 2011 
Note $m $m 
(Loss) / profit for the year (550) 321 
Taxation 7 (148) (28)
Share of loss / (profit) of equity accounted investments 13 6 (9)
Finance income 6 (35) (20)
Finance expenses 6 19 43 
Impairment of available for sale financial assets 3 6 – 
Non-cash movement on deferred revenue (13) – 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 726 124 
Change in inventories 124 12 
Change in trade and other receivables 75 260 
Change in trade and other payables (28) (27)
Change in provisions (3) (13)
Deferred revenue received 20 107 – 
Share-based payments 14 17 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 2 
Cash flow from operations 300 682 
Interest received 4 3 
Interest and bank fees paid (31) (39)
Tax paid (10) (16)
Cash inflow from operating activities 263 630 
Cash flow from investing activities
Distribution from / (investment in) joint venture 13 7 (2)
Additions to other financial assets 14 (2) (30)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (404) (408)
Purchase of intangible assets (4) (2)
Cash used in investing activities (403) (442)
Cash flow from financing activities
Equity dividends paid to Lonmin shareholders (31) (30)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (14) (10)
Proceeds from current borrowings 30 120 10 
Repayment of current borrowings 30 (10) (71)
Proceeds from non-current borrowings 30 589 300 
Issue cost on non-current borrowings – (8)
Repayment of non-current borrowings 30 (275) (454)
Issue of other ordinary share capital – 1 
Cash inflow / (outflow) from financing activities 379 (262)
Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 30 239 (74)
Opening cash and cash equivalents 30 76 148 
Effect of exchange rate changes 30 – 2 
Closing cash and cash equivalents 30 315 76  [ 108] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
1     Statement on accounting policies
Reporting entity
Lonmin Plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the UK. The address of the Company’s registered office is 4
Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7YL. The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 
30 September 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) and the Group’s interest
in equity accounted investments.
Basis of preparation
Statement of compliance
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as
adopted by the EU (adopted IFRSs) and approved by the Directors on this basis.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom generally
accepted accounting practice (UK GAAP). The parent company financial statements present information about the Company
as a separate entity and not about its Group. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 November 2012. 
Basis of measurement
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following:
• Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
• Available for sale assets are measured at fair value.
• Liabilities for cash settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value.
• Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Going concern
In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements, the Directors are required to consider whether
the Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider economic environment in which the Group operates.
Factors exist which are outside the control of management which can have a significant impact on the business, specifically,
volatility in the Rand / US Dollar exchange rate and PGM commodity prices. Prior to the Events at Marikana, the Group had
embarked on a review of its growth strategy, future production profile and capital investment programme as a result of
prevailing subdued short-term demand for PGMs. Against this backdrop, the Events at Marikana resulted in a material
reduction in mine production at a time when the Group was not well positioned to absorb the resulting financial shock. This
necessitated a further review of the strategy and capital structure. To this end, the Board has concluded that reducing capital
expenditure in the near term and raising additional equity, in conjunction with a revision to bank facilities will result the
appropriate capital structure and retain the Group’s flexibility as regards financial risks.
As noted in note 32, the Company entered into an agreement with Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, J.P .
Morgan Securities Plc and Standard Bank Plc to fully underwrite approximately $800 million Rights Issue. In conjunction with
the Rights Issue, the Company has negotiated certain amendments to the terms of the Group’s existing debt facilities which
are detailed in note 18. The Amended Facilities will only come into effect if the Resolution is passed and the Rights Issue is
completed. It is intended that US$300 million of the proceeds of the Proposed Rights Issue will be used to prepay and cancel
the US Dollar Term Loan and that the terms of the Group’s existing US Dollar Revolving Credit Facility and Rand Facilities will
be amended. The principal amendments to these facilities are to remove the net debt / Underlying EBITDA and Underlying
EBITDA / net interest covenants and replace them with covenants relating to net debt and tangible net worth with caps placed
on capital expenditure at certain debt levels.
The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for a period in excess of 12 months and have concluded that the capital
structure, after a successful Rights Issue and debt facilities amendments, provides sufficient head room to cushion against
downside operational risks and minimises the risk of breaching new covenants.
The Rights Issue is conditional upon the Resolution being passed by shareholders at the General Meeting, on Admission of
the New Shares to the premium listing segment of the Official List, Admission of the Nil Paid Rights to trading on the LSE,
Admission of the Letters of Allocation and New Shares to trading on the JSE and on the Underwriting Agreement becoming
unconditional. Therefore, if the Resolution is not passed at the General Meeting or any of these other events do not occur, the
Rights Issue will not proceed. If the Right Issue does not proceed the Amended Facilities will not come into effect. Until such
time as any subsequent renegotiation is concluded, the existing facilities will continue to apply. In the event that the Group
does not raise new equity and agree amendments to its existing bank facilities, in light of:
• the continuing impact on the Group of a loss of production arising from the Events at Marikana, as it seeks to ramp up
production following the work stoppages; 
• the sensitivity of the Group’s profitability and cash flows to adverse movements in PGM prices and the Rand / US Dollar
exchange rate; 
• the increased cost of labour following the 18 September wage agreement; and
• the ongoing risks of future labour disputes and the associated increased cost of labour and social provision. 
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 109]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Going concern (continued)
The Directors believe that the Group may breach either or both of the Underlying EBITDA / net debt and Underlying EBITDA /
interest expense covenants in the Group’s US Dollar Facilities and Rand Facilities when they are tested at the next covenant
test, which is due to be carried out in relation to the Group’s interim results for the six months ending 31 March 2013, and / or at
a subsequent test date. 
A breach of any of the Group’s covenants when they are tested at any test date could result in a significant proportion of the
Group’s borrowings becoming repayable immediately. In that event, borrowings under the Group’s debt instruments that
contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions may become payable on demand and the Group may not have
sufficient funds to repay all of its debts.
The need for shareholder approval of the planned Rights Issue represents a material uncertainty that may cast significant
doubt about the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern such that the they may be unable to realise
their assets and discharge their liabilities in the normal course of business.
Nevertheless, based on the Group’s expectation that the conditions of the Rights Issue will be met, in addition to the Group’s
current trading, forecasts, and further management actions which would be taken whilst the existing financial covenants remain
in place, the Directors believe that the Group will continue to comply with its financial covenants and accordingly have formed a
judgement that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis. Therefore, these financial
statements do not include any adjustments that would result if the going concern basis on preparation is inappropriate.
Functional and presentation currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company and its
principal operations.
Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The primary areas in which estimates and judgements are applied are as follows:
Impairment of assets
The carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for which the key assumptions, and
management approach for determining these, are described in the policy on Impairment – Non-financial assets.
Reserves and resources
Reserves and resources are determined by Competent Persons and audited bi-annually according to the South African code
for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves. The determination of resources and
reserves requires a wide variety of assessments regarding the geology of the ore body, the mining plans and economic viability
which are all subject to inherent uncertainties. Changes in proven and probable reserves have a direct impact on depreciation
rates applied to mining assets which are calculated on a units of production basis.
Inventory
Inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain reflecting the stage of refinement. Prior to production as final
metal the inventory is always contained within a carrier material. As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken to
determine the metal content and how this is split by metal. Measurement and sampling accuracy can vary quite significantly
depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material. Management judgement, therefore, is also applied.
Rehabilitation costs
The nature of the mining and processing operations of the Group gives rise to environmental obligations which are reflected in
the rehabilitation provision. The level of provision needs to reflect the present value of the future remediation costs. Estimating
the future remediation costs involves significant judgments including for example the local geography and geology, whether
contamination has occurred and, if so, the nature of contaminants involved and the remediation approach to be taken and the
likely costs which would be incurred. Such judgements are made using advice from expert advisors. In addition, the outflows
in respect of rehabilitation are generally far into the future. Judgement is therefore also involved in estimating the timing of the
cash flow and in the discounting factors to determine the present value.
Derivative financial instruments
Judgement and estimation involved in the valuation of derivative financial instruments is considered in detail in note 21g.
New standards and amendments in the year
There were no new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the period which
materially impacted the Group’s financial statements.
Notes to the Accounts [ 110] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Change in accounting policy
The Group has amended its accounting policy for Stripping Costs such that it is now consistent with the principles set out in
IFRIC 20 ‘Stripping Costs in the Production of a Surface Mine’. IFRIC 20, which has yet to be adopted by the EU, requires
that stripping costs incurred which provide improved access to the ore be recognised as a non-current asset (“stripping
activity asset”) when certain criteria is met. The application of this change of accounting did not have a material impact on the
amounts reported for the current and prior years.
Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in
these Group financial statements, and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the
financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting
rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition at
which date control commences or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate, at which date control ceases. Where
necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the
accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Associates
An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant
influence but not control over the financial and operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group
holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity. Associates are accounted for using the equity method
and are initially measured at cost. The Group’s investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any impairment
losses. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the income and expenses and equity movements
of any associates, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant
influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in
an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to nil and
the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments
on behalf of the investee.
Joint ventures (JVs)
The Group undertakes a number of business activities through JVs. JVs are established through contractual arrangements
which result in the strategic, financial and operating policies of the venture being jointly controlled. Such joint ventures are
treated as jointly controlled entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and
joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are
eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group entities
using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies at the financial reporting date are retranslated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the
financial reporting date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on
the retranslation of available for sale financial assets and equity accounted investments which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Revenue
Revenue is derived from the sale of metal inventories and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable,
after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes. A sale is recognised when: the significant
risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer (this is generally when title and insurance risk have passed to the
customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location); recovery of the consideration is probable;
the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably; there is no continuing management involvement
with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. In certain circumstances, for example sometimes in the
sale of part-processed material, metal prices at the point of sale may be provisional. The impact of changes in metal prices to
the point of settlement are reflected through revenue and receivables.
All third-party metal sales are recognised as revenue. The Group does not credit capitalised development costs with income
arising from production in development phases but rather recognises such metal as inventory (see Inventories policy).
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 111]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Finance income and expenses
Finance income comprises interest on funds invested (including available for sale financial assets), dividend income, gains on
the disposal of available for sale financial assets net of costs of disposal, expected returns on pension scheme assets, and
gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principle outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Group’s rights to receive payment have been established.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees (including bank fees which are capitalised and
amortised over the life of the facility), unwinding of discount on provisions, interest costs of pension scheme liabilities, and
losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement. 
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method except for borrowing costs
which are directly attributable to the acquisition, or construction of an asset. Such costs are capitalised to property, plant and
equipment or intangible assets during the period of construction or development provided that future economic benefit is
considered probable. Capitalised interest is shown as interest paid in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Company’s accounting policies in respect of the hybrid financial instrument issued to it by Shanduka, its BEE partner, are
detailed in the financial instruments section. 
Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received. 
Research and development
Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure which meets the recognition criteria for an intangible asset under IAS 38 – Intangible Assets, is
capitalised and then amortised over the useful economic life of the developed asset, otherwise it is charged to the income
statement as incurred. Borrowing costs related to the development of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Capitalised development expenditure is recognised at cost, and subsequently carried at cost less any accumulated
impairment losses, where it can be demonstrated that the expenditure will result in completion of an asset which, when
available for use or sale, will result in future economic benefit arising for the Group. 
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral
reserves and includes costs relating to the following: acquisition of exploration rights; conducting geological studies;
exploratory drilling and sampling and evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral
resource as well as capitalised interest.
Expenditure incurred on activities that precede exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, being all expenditure
incurred prior to securing the legal rights to explore an area, is expensed immediately.
Expenditure towards in-house exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves for each area of interest is expensed
until it is considered probable that future economic benefit will arise through further exploration and subsequent development
of the area of interest or, alternatively, by its sale. 
Pre-feasibility studies involve the review of one or more potential development options with the aim of moving forward to the
more detailed feasibility study stage. Expenditure related to such studies is expensed in full as there is insufficient certainty
that future economic benefit will be generated at this stage of a project. 
Expenditure relating to feasibility studies which support the technical feasibility and commercial viability of an area is
capitalised under exploration and evaluation assets. 
Where a feasibility study reaches a favourable conclusion, accumulated exploration and evaluation costs are transferred to
mineral rights within intangibles or capital work in progress within property, plant and equipment as appropriate on
commencement of the development phase of the related project. Where the feasibility study reaches an adverse conclusion,
any previously capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off immediately. 
Expenditure on purchased exploration and evaluation assets is capitalised at fair value at the time of purchase. Subsequent
expenditure may be capitalised at cost. Carrying values are subject to impairment reviews as per the Group’s policy.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is classified as property, plant and equipment or intangible depending on the nature 
of the expenditure.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is a class of assets which are not available for use. Therefore amortisation
is not provided on such assets.
Mineral mining rights, which are obtained following the completion of a feasibility study, are not included within exploration and
evaluation expenditure. They are capitalised at cost under IAS 38 – Intangible Assets and are amortised on a units of
production basis over the life of the mine.
Notes to the Accounts [ 112] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Share-based payments
From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is
recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become
unconditionally entitled to payment. The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date. Any changes in
the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a
Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award. Market related performance conditions are reflected in the
fair value of the share. Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the
number of awards expected to vest; the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market
conditions are met.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes in accordance with local regulations. A defined contribution
plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity and has no
legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are
recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due. 
Taxation
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax to be paid or recovered on the taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted or
substantively enacted at the reporting date during the periods being reported upon, and any adjustments to tax payable in
respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax as directed by IAS 12 – Income Taxes is recognised in respect of certain temporary differences identified at the
financial reporting date. Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Group’s assets and
liabilities and their tax base.
A deferred tax liability is recognised in a business combination in respect of any identified intangible asset representing the
difference between the fair value of the acquired asset and its tax base. Recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of
such a difference gives rise to a corresponding increase in goodwill recognised in the consolidated statement of financial
position.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax Group where
the entities have the right to settle current tax liabilities net. Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the
basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same
jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising in relation to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities
and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that
the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Business combinations and goodwill
Subject to the transitional relief in IFRS 1, all business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which
control is transferred to the Group. 
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus 
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
• the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less
• the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as
incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is
classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the
fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
On a transaction-by-transaction basis, the Group elects to measure non-controlling interests either at its fair value or at its
proportionate interest in the recognised amount of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree at the acquisition date.
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 113]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Acquisitions between 1 October 2004 and 1 January 2010
For acquisitions between 1 October 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition 
over the Group’s interest in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities
of the acquiree. When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in
connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
Acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004 (date of transition to IFRSs)
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of Adopted IFRSs in the transition period. The Group and
Company elected not to restate business combinations that took place prior to 1 October 2004. In respect of acquisitions
prior to 1 October 2004, goodwill is included at 1 October 2004 on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the
amount recorded under UK GAAP which was broadly comparable save that only separable intangibles were recognised and
goodwill was amortised. On transition amortisation of goodwill ceased as required by IFRS 1.
Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests
Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of control are accounted for as
transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary. Any
difference between the price paid or received and the amount by which non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised
directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Prior to the adoption of IAS 27 (2008), goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary,
which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net
assets acquired at the date of the transaction.
Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not
amortised but is tested annually for impairment. In respect of equity accounted investees, the carrying amount of goodwill is
included in the carrying amount of the investment in the investee.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired by the Group have finite useful lives and are measured at cost less
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Where amortisation is charged on these assets, the expense
is taken to the income statement through operating costs.
Amortisation of mineral rights is provided on a units of production basis over the remaining life of mine to residual value (20 to
40 years).
All other intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives subject to a maximum of 20 years and are tested for
impairment at each reporting date when there is an indication of a possible impairment.
Property, plant and equipment
Recognition
Property, plant and equipment is included in the statement of financial position at cost and subsequently less accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets
includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working
condition for its intended use, and any other costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they
are located. Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency
purchases of property, plant and equipment. Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets
are capitalised to the cost of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds on
disposal with the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and are recognised net in the income statement. 
Componentisation
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as
separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is
probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured
reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised upon replacement. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of
property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Notes to the Accounts [ 114] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Capital work in progress
Development costs are capitalised and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when
available for use. 
Capitalised development costs include expenditure incurred to develop new operations and to expand existing capacity.
Costs include interest capitalised during the period up to the level that the qualifying assets permit. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line or units of production basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives or the
remaining life of mine, if shorter, to residual value. The life of mine is based on proven and probable reserves. The expected
useful lives of the major categories of property, plant and equipment are as follows:
Method Rate
Shafts and underground Units of production 2.5% – 5.0% per annum 20 – 40 years 
Metallurgical Straight line 2.5% – 7.1% per annum 14 – 40 years 
Infrastructure Straight line 2.5% – 2.9% per annum 35 – 40 years 
Other plant and equipment Straight line 2.5% – 50.0% per annum 2 – 40 years 
No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
Impairment – Non-financial assets (excluding inventories and deferred tax)
The Group’s principal non-financial assets (excluding inventories and deferred tax assets) are property, plant and equipment,
intangibles and goodwill associated with exploration and evaluation, mining and processing activities. For the purpose of
assessing recoverable amount, these assets are grouped into cash generating units (CGUs).
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. At each financial reporting date, the Group
assesses whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount
of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment (if any).
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually regardless of whether an
indication of impairment exists.
Items of property, plant and equipment that are not in use are reviewed annually for impairment on a fair value less costs to
sell basis.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the
asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
Value in use
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, based on the most up to date business forecasts or studies for
exploration and evaluation assets, are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets for which estimates of future cash flows
have not been adjusted.
The key assumptions contained within the business forecasts and management’s approach to determine appropriate values
are set out below:
Key Assumption Management Approach
PGM prices Projections are determined through a combination of the views of the Directors, 
market estimates and forecasts and other sector information.
Production volume Projections are based on the capacity and expected operational capabilities of the 
mines, the grade of the ore, and the efficiencies of processing and refining 
operations.
Production costs Projections are based on current cost adjusted for expected cost changes as well as
giving consideration to specific issues such as the difficulty in mining particular
sections of the reef and the mining method employed.
Capital expenditure requirements Projections are based on the operational plan, which sets out the long-term plan of
the business and is approved by the Board.
Foreign currency exchange rates Spot rates as at the end of the reporting period are applied.
Reserves and resources of the CGU Projections are determined through surveys performed by Competent Persons and
the views of the Directors of the Company.
Management uses past experience and assessment of future conditions, together with external sources of information in
order to assign values to the key assumptions.
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 115]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Management has projected cash flows over the life of the relevant mining operation which is significantly greater than 5 years.
Projecting cash flows over a period longer than 5 years is in line with industry practice and is supported by the Group’s history
of the resources expected to be found being proven to exist. Management does not apply a growth rate because a detailed
life of mine plan is used to forecast future production volumes.
For each CGU a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate is used for impairment testing. The key factors affecting the risk premium
applied are the relevant stage of the development of the asset in the CGU (extensions to existing operations having
significantly lower risk than evaluation projects for example), the level of knowledge and consistency of the ore body and
sovereign risk. The rate applied to goodwill in the Marikana CGU for 2012 was 11.6% real. The rate applied for the exploration
and evaluation asset in the Akanani CGU for 2012 was 14.3% nominal.
In preparing the financial statements, management has considered whether a reasonably possible change in the key
assumptions on which management has based its determination of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs would cause the
units’ carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts. For the Marikana CGU, because of the forecast for long-term
PGM prices and the very significant reserves and resources in the ground, management do not believe that a reasonably
possible change in any of the key assumptions would lead to impairment. The Akanani CGU has been impaired at year end,
and as such an adverse change to any of the key assumptions will lead to further impairment.
Fair value less costs to sell
Fair value less costs to sell has been determined by reference to the best information available to reflect the amount that the
Group could receive for the CGU in an arm’s length transaction.
When comparable market transactions or public valuations of similar assets exist these are used as a source of evidence.
However, the Group believes that mining CGUs tend to be unique and have their value determined largely by the nature of the
underlying ore body. The fair value therefore is typically determined by calculating the value of the CGU using an appropriate
valuation methodology such as calculating the post-tax net present value using a discounted cash flow forecast (as described
in value in use). 
Exploration and evaluation assets
Under IFRS 6 exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the
carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amount. When this occurs, any impairment loss is immediately
charged to the income statement. 
Akanani exploration and evaluation asset 
The exploration and evaluation assets at Akanani CGU include the exploration and evaluation expenditure and goodwill. 
The Akanani CGU is currently at prefeasibility study level and value in use calculations for the CGU are calculated using cash
flows derived from the results of the latest study. Given the Akanani CGU is at the exploration and evaluation stage it is
reasonably possible that the completion of that stage will result in changes to indicated and inferred reserves of PGM ounces
and a further refinement of capital and operating expenses. In addition the quantity of resources is also sensitive to the long-
term metal prices. Adverse changes in reserves and resources, capital and operating expenses, and long-term metal prices
might cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying amount of the CGU. 
Goodwill
The recoverable amount of goodwill, as allocated to relevant CGUs, has been tested for impairment annually, or when such
events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. 
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Impairment losses within a CGU are allocated first to goodwill and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in
the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Reversal of impairment
At each financial reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a previously recognised impairment
loss has reversed. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is only reversed to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the
carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, had the impairment not been made.
A reversal of impairment is recognised as income immediately except for previously impaired goodwill which is never reversed.
Impairment – financial assets (including receivables) 
A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there 
is objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has
occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash
flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably.
Notes to the Accounts [ 116] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its
carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest
rate. Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognised through the unwinding of the discount. When a subsequent
event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
Leases
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present
value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset as determined at the inception of the lease. The
obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans and
other borrowings, with the amount payable within twelve months included in bank overdrafts and loans within current
liabilities. The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period. Rentals under operating 
leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Assets held for sale
When an asset’s carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, to take place within twelve months 
of the financial reporting date, rather than through continuing use it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of
carrying value and fair value less costs to sell. No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held
for sale. Immediately prior to sale the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. 
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (which includes the applicable proportion of production overheads) and net
realisable value. 
PGMs inventory is valued by allocating costs, based on the joint cost of production, apportioned according to the relative
sales value of each of the PGMs produced.
By-product metals are valued at the incremental cost of production from the point of split-off from the PGM processing
stream.
In the process of initially developing the ore reserve it is common that metal is produced, although not at normal operating
levels. Development is split into different phases according to the mining method used with differing levels of production
expected in each phase. The Group recognises the metal produced in each development phase in inventory with an
appropriate proportion of cost as operating costs. This allocation is calculated by reference to the produced volumes in
relation to the total volumes expected from the development.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily
convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original
maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents
as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as the bank overdraft is repayable on demand and forms an integral part
of the Group’s cash management.
Rehabilitation costs
Rehabilitation costs are provided in full based on estimates of the future costs to be incurred, calculated on a discounted
basis. As the provision is recognised, it is either capitalised as part of the cost of the related mine or written off to the income
statement if utilised within one year. Where costs are capitalised the impact of such costs on the income statement is spread
over the life of mine through the accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation over a units of production
basis of the increased costs of the mining assets.
Provisions
Provision is made when a present or legal obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the
amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. 
Financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments (other than derivatives) comprise bank loans, available for sale financial assets,
trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and short-term deposits. 
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the
income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial
instruments are measured as described below.
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 117]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. These also comprise bank overdrafts that are
repayable on demand, for the purpose of the cash flow statement only.
Investments are classified into loans and receivables, held-to-maturity and available for sale. The classification depends on the
purpose for which the investments were acquired, the nature of the investments and whether the investment is quoted or not.
The classification of investments is determined at initial recognition. 
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables and investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortised cost and gains or losses are
recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation
process.
The Company is the holder of a financial instrument issued by its BEE partner, Shanduka. The loan component of the hybrid
instrument was recognised initially at fair value and thereafter will be held at amortised cost. The loan is denominated in
Sterling. The financial instrument was translated to preference shares on 31 March 2011. The related dividends accumulate
on a month to month basis based on the same rates as the interest rates of the original financial instrument.
Available for sale financial assets
The Group’s investments in equity securities and certain debt securities are classified as available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except for
impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items, foreign exchange gains and losses. When an investment is written off
or sold, any cumulative gains or losses in equity are recycled into the income statement. Fair value is determined by using the
market price at the financial reporting date where this is available. Where market price is not available the Directors’ best
estimates of market value are used.
Bank loans
Bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, net of transaction costs incurred, and are adjusted to amortise transaction costs
over the term of the loan.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are principally used by the Group to manage exposure to market risks from treasury
operations and commodity price risks on by-products. The principal derivative instruments used are foreign currency swaps,
interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward price agreements on by-products. The Group does not
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value and then remeasured
to fair value at subsequent reporting dates. Attributable costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred. The method of
recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the
nature of the item being hedged. Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges. 
On initial designation of the derivative as the hedging instrument, the Group formally documents the relationship between the
hedging instrument and hedged item, including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge
transaction and the hedged risk, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging
relationship. The Group makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well as on an ongoing basis,
of whether the hedging instruments are expected to be “highly effective” in offsetting the changes in fair value or cash flows of
the respective hedged items attributable to the hedged risk, and whether the actual results of each hedge are within a range
of 80 – 125 %. For a cash flow hedge of a forecast transaction, the transaction should be highly probable to occur and should
present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect reported profit or loss.
When a derivative is designated as the hedging instrument in a hedge of the variability in cash flows attributable to a particular
risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit or loss, the
effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in
the hedging reserve in equity. Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
The fair value gains and losses accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the same period that the hedged item
affects profit or loss. If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated
or exercised, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is revoked prospectively. 
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in
profit or loss.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, i.e., the fair value of the
consideration given or received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable
current market transactions in the same instrument (i.e. without modification or repackaging) or based on a valuation
technique whose variables include only data from observable markets. When transaction price provides the best evidence of
fair value at initial recognition, the financial instrument is initially measured at the transaction price and any difference between
this price and the value initially obtained from a valuation model is subsequently recognised in profit or loss on a straight line
basis over the life of the instrument but not later than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable market data or the
transaction is closed out.
Notes to the Accounts [ 118] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
1     Statement on accounting policies (continued)
The financial instrument issued by Shanduka to the Company contains a derivative component which has a fair value
determined by a valuation model which requires unobservable management assumptions to be made. As such the derivative
falls within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and, at recognition, no “day one gains” can be made. Hence, the unobservable
assumptions have been adjusted downwards to eliminate the day one gain. These adjustments will only be amended post
recognition to the extent that a change occurs in factors which market participants would consider in setting a price.
Segmental reporting
The core principle of IFRS 8 – Operating Segments is that an entity shall disclose information to enable users to evaluate the
nature and financial effects of the business activities in which it engages and the economic environments in which it operates.
On this basis Lonmin has three reportable operating segments being:
• PGM Operations – which comprise operational mines and processing facilities which are located in South Africa.
• Evaluation – which relates to the Akanani asset which is located in South Africa and is in the evaluation stage.
• Exploration – this essentially relates to the costs of exploration projects which have the objective of identifying PGM
deposits which can be commercially realised and which can occur anywhere in the world.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on
a reasonable basis. 
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and
intangible assets other than goodwill, and any capitalised interest.
EU endorsed IFRS not yet applied by the Group
IFRSs issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU but not applied by the Group in these financial statements are not
expected to have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group when they are applied.
2     Segmental analysis
The Group distinguishes between three reportable operating segments being the Platinum Group Metals (PGM) Operations
segment, the Evaluation segment and the Exploration segment. 
The PGM Operations segment comprises the activities involved in the mining and processing of PGMs, together with
associated base metals, which are carried out entirely in South Africa. These operations are integrated and designed to
support the process for extracting and refining PGMs from underground. PGMs move through each stage of the process and
undergo successive levels of refinement which result in fully refined metals. The Chief Executive Officer, who performs the role
of Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), views the PGM Operations segment as a single whole for the purposes of
financial performance monitoring and assessment and does not make resource allocations based on margin, costs or cash
flows incurred at each separate stage of the process. In addition, the CODM makes his decisions for running the business on
a day to day basis using the physical operating statistics generated by the business as these summarise the operating
performance of the entire segment. 
The Evaluation segment covers the evaluation through pre-feasibility of the economic viability of newly discovered PGM
deposits. Currently all of the evaluation projects are based in South Africa.                                               
The Exploration segment covers the activities involved in the discovery or identification of new PGM deposits. This activity
occurs on a worldwide basis. 
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 119]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
2     Segmental analysis (continued)
No operating segments have been aggregated. Operating segments have consistently adopted the consolidated basis of
accounting and there are no differences in measurement applied. Other covers mainly the results and investment activities of
the corporate Head Office. The only intersegment transactions involve the provision of funding between segments and any
associated interest.                                                                  
Year ended 30 September 2012
PGM
Operations Evaluation Exploration Intersegment
Segment Segment Segment Other Adjustments Total 
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue (external sales by product):
Platinum 1,064 – – – – 1,064
Palladium 212 – – – – 212 
Gold 31 – – – – 31
Rhodium 152 – – – – 152 
Ruthenium 17 – – – – 17 
Iridium 39 – – – – 39
PGMs 1,515 – – – – 1,515
Nickel 55 – – – – 55
Copper 16 – – – – 16
Chrome 28 – – – – 28 
1,614 – – – – 1,614 
Underlying 
i
:
EBITDA / (LBITDA) 
ii
202 3 (4) (8) – 193 
Depreciation, amortisation and 
impairment (126) – – – – (126)
Operating profit / (loss) 
ii
76 3 (4) (8) – 67
Finance income 5 – – 14 (14) 5 
Finance expenses (15) – – (18) 14 (19)
Share of profit of equity accounted 
investments 2 – – 2 – 4 
Profit / (loss) before taxation 68 3 (4) (10) – 57 
Income tax expense (39) – – – – (39)
Underlying profit / (loss) after taxation 29 3 (4) (10) – 18
Special items (note 3) 
iii
(103) (481) – 16 – (568)
(Loss) / profit after taxation (74) (478) (4) 6 – (550)
Total assets 
iv
3,862 269 – 1,493 (1,001) 4,623 
Total liabilities 
v
(2,094) (188) (46) (551) 1,001 (1,878)
Net assets 1,768 81 (46) 942 – 2,745 
Share of net assets of equity accounted 
investments 42 – – 115 – 157 
Additions to property, plant, equipment 
and intangibles 439 5 – – – 444
Material non-cash items – share-based 
payments 13 – – 1 – 14 
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
Notes to the Accounts [ 120] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
2     Segmental analysis (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2011
PGM
Operations Evaluation Exploration Intersegment
Segment Segment Segment Other Adjustments Total 
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue (external sales by product):
Platinum 1,275 – – – – 1,275 
Palladium 280 – – – – 280 
Gold 29 – – – – 29 
Rhodium 220 – – – – 220 
Ruthenium 32 – – – – 32 
Iridium 32 – – – – 32 
PGMs 1,868 – – – – 1,868 
Nickel 88 – – – – 88 
Copper 21 – – – – 21 
Chrome 15 15 
1,992 – – – – 1,992 
Underlying 
i
:
EBITDA / (LBITDA) 
ii
425 6 (1) 3 – 433 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (122) – – – – (122)
Operating profit / (loss) 
ii
303 6 (1) 3 – 311 
Finance income 8 – – 7 (10) 5 
Finance expenses (20) – – – 10 (10)
Share of profit of equity accounted investments 9 – – – – 9 
Profit / (loss) before taxation 300 6 (1) 10 – 315 
Income tax (expense) / credit (60) 4 – – – (56)
Underlying profit / (loss) after taxation 240 10 (1) 10 – 259 
Special items (note 3) 
iii
80 – – (18) – 62 
Profit after taxation 320 10 (1) (8) – 321 
Total assets 
iv
3,541 866 1 1,206 (752) 4,862 
Total liabilities 
v
(1,587) (306) (42) (338) 752 (1,521)
Net assets 1,954 560 (41) 868 – 3,341 
Share of net assets of equity accounted 
investments 48 – – 127 – 175 
Additions to property, plant, equipment 
and intangibles 486 23 – – – 509 
Material non-cash items – share-based 
payments 17 – – – – 17 
Revenue by destination is analysed by geographical area below:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2012 2011
$m $m
The Americas 319 414 
Asia 485 557 
Europe 508 616 
South Africa 302 405 
1,614 1,992 
The Group’s revenues are all derived from the PGM Operations segment. This segment has two major customers who
contributed 49% and 29% of revenue in the year (2011 – 59% and 27%).    
                                                    
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 121]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
2     Segmental analysis (continued)
Metal sales prices are based on market prices which are denominated in US Dollars. The majority of sales are also invoiced in
US Dollars with the exception of certain sales in South Africa which are invoiced in South African Rand based on exchange
rates determined in accordance with the contractual arrangements.             
Non-current assets, excluding financial instruments, by geographical area are shown below:                   
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2012 2011
$m $m
South Africa 3,547 3,847 
Europe 1 1 
3,548 3,848 
        Footnotes:
i. Underlying results are based on reported results excluding the effect of special items as defined in note 3.
ii. EBITDA / (LBITDA) and operating profit / (loss) are the key profit measures used by management.
iii. The impairment of Akanani to the value of $602 million (2011 – $nil) is included under special items in the segmental analysis. Akanani forms part of
the Evaluation segment.
iv. The assets under “Other” include the HDSA receivable of $381 million (2011 – $351 million) and intercompany receivables of $707 million 
(2011 – $742 million).
v. The liabilities under "Other" include non-current borrowings of $500 million (2011 – $300 million).
3     Special items
Special items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of
the income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and for consistency
with prior years.
2012 2011
$m $m
Operating loss: (769) (4)
– Costs relating to illegal work stoppage 
i
Idle fixed production costs (120) – 
Contract costs (29) – 
Payroll costs (7) – 
Other costs (3) – 
– Capital raising costs 
ii
(5) – 
– Impairment of property, plant and equipment 
iii
2 (2)
– Restructuring and reorganisation costs 
iv
– (2)
– Costs incurred relating to disputed prospecting rights 
v
(5) – 
– Impairment of exploration and evaluation asset 
vi
(602) – 
Impairment of available for sale financial assets 
vii
(6) – 
Share of impairment recognised in investment in associate 
viii
(10) – 
Net finance income / (expenses): 30 (18)
– Interest accrued from HDSA receivable 
ix
16 15 
– Exchange gain / (loss) on HDSA receivable 
ix
14 (3)
– Movement in fair value of HDSA derivative (note 21g) – (24)
– Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges 
x
– (6)
Loss on special items before taxation (755) (22)
Taxation related to special items (note 7) 187 84 
Special (loss) / gain before non-controlling interests (568) 62 
Non-controlling interests 143 (15)
Special (loss) / gain for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc (425) 47 
        Footnotes:
i. Fixed production overheads incurred during the illegal strike period for which there was no associated production output and costs arising directly
as a result of the strike action have been classified as special items. The total of these strike related costs amounted to $159 million. Idle fixed
production costs incurred during the strike period amounted to $120 million. Costs relating to contractors not being able to fulfil their obligations as
a result of the disruption amounted to $29 million. The negotiated wage settlement included an amount to be paid to employees on their return to
work which totalled $7 million. Other costs related to the strike include additional security, media coordination and consumables.
Notes to the Accounts 3     Special items (continued)
ii. Capital raising costs of $5 million were incurred prior to the strike disruption. These costs related to exploratory work and capital raising initiatives 
in various debt markets. 
iii. The impairment charge to write down employee housing processed in 2011 has been reversed during the year under review following a
reassessment of the realisable value of the houses.
iv. During the year ended 30 September 2012 the Group incurred $nil (2011 - $2 million) in transition costs in relocating corporate functions from the
London office to South Africa. 
v. Costs were incurred to compensate Holgoun Investment Holdings (Proprietary) Limited, Keysha’s parent company, for relinquishing a disputed
prospecting right and for its costs including those incurred in carrying out prospecting activities.
vi. Impairment charges relate to the write down of goodwill and the exploration and evaluation asset of Akanani (see notes 10 and 11).
vii. The $6 million impairment of available for sale financial assets represents the loss in value of our share in Platmin Limited following the company’s
delisting in December 2011.
viii. The impairment charge relates to our participation in Incwala’s share of the write down of the Akanani exploration and evaluation asset (see notes
11 and 13).
ix. During the year ended 30 September 2010 the Group provided financing to assist Shanduka to acquire a majority shareholding in Incwala,
Lonmin’s Black Economic Empowerment partner. This financing has given rise to foreign exchange movements and the accrual of interest in 2012
and 2011. 
x. In 2011 the interest rate swap referred to in note 19 was entered into prior to draw down of the hedged item, resulting in a fair value loss during
initial period of mismatch.
4     Group operating (loss) / profit
Group operating (loss) / profit is stated after charging / (crediting):                 
2012 2011
$m $m
Depreciation charge – property, plant and equipment 120 114 
Amortisation charge – intangible assets 6 8 
Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments 
i
5 9 
Share-based payments 14 17 
Foreign exchange gains (17) (28)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 2 
Special items (note 3) 769 4 
       
       Footnote:
i. Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments includes $3 million (2011 – $6 million) in respect of Directors.
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates included in operating costs:
2012 2011
$m $m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.4 0.4
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.7
Audit-related assurance services:
– Interim Review 0.2 0.4
Tax compliance services – 0.1
Other assurance services:
– Sustainability Assurance services 0.3 0.4
– Comfort letters in connection with capital raising initiatives 0.1 –
All other non-audit services – 0.1
1.7 2.1
The Companies (Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements) (Amendment) Regulations 2011
(Statutory Instrument 2011/2198) became effective for the year ended 30 September 2012. This has resulted in a change to
the presentation of the auditors’ remuneration note above, and a restatement of prior year comparatives.                     
Fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates for non-audit services to the Company are not disclosed in the individual
accounts of Lonmin Plc because the Company’s consolidated accounts are required to disclose such fees on a 
consolidated basis.
Notes to the Accounts
Financial Statements Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
[ 122] www.lonmin.com
Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
5     Employees
The average number of employees and Directors during the year was as follows:
2012 2011
No. No.
South Africa 28,222 25,084 
Europe 8 13 
28,230 25,097 
The aggregate payroll costs of employees, key management and Directors were as follows:
2012 2011
Employee costs $m $m
Wages and salaries 668 700 
Social security costs 21 26 
Pension costs 52 53 
Share-based payments 14 17 
755 796 
The vast majority of employee costs are denominated in Rand and reported Dollar costs are therefore subject to foreign
exchange movements.                 
2012 2011
Key management compensation $m $m
Short-term employee benefits 5 7 
Termination payments – 2 
Key management costs excluding share-based payments 5 9 
Share-based payments 2 2 
7 11 
The key management compensation analysed above represents amounts in respect of the Executive Committee (Exco) which
comprised the two executive Directors and four other senior managers (2011 –  two executive Directors and four other senior
managers).
The Sterling equivalents of total Directors’ emoluments and emoluments of the highest paid Director together with full details
of Directors’ remuneration, pensions and benefits in kind are given in the Remuneration Committee Report.                 
The Group operates defined contribution schemes in the UK and South Africa. There were no accrued obligations under
defined contribution plans at 30 September 2012 and 2011.
The total pension cost for the Group was $52 million (2011 – $53 million), $51 million of which related to South African
schemes (2011 – $52 million).
Notes to the Accounts
[ 123]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance [ 124] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
6     Net finance income / (expenses)
2012 2011
$m $m
Finance income: 5 5 
– Interest receivable on cash and cash equivalents 4 3 
– Other interest receivable 1 – 
– Exchange gains on net debt 
i
– 2 
Finance expenses: (19) (10)
– Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (20) (30)
– Effective portion of cash flow hedges released to the income statement (5) – 
– Bank fees (6) (12)
– Unamortised bank fees realised on settlement of old loan facility – (7)
– Capitalised interest 
ii
26 46 
– Unwind of discounting on provisions (note 23) (11) (7)
– Ineffective portion of cash flow hedges released to the income statement (note 19) (2) – 
– Exchange losses on net debt 
i
(1) – 
Special items (note 3): 30 (18)
– Interest on HDSA receivable (note 14) 16 15 
– Exchange gain / (loss) on HDSA receivable (note 14) 14 (3)
– Movement in fair value of HDSA derivative (note 14) – (24)
– Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges – (6)
Net finance income / (expenses) 16 (23)
Footnotes:
i. Net debt is defined by the Group as cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings
less unamortised bank fees.
ii. Interest expenses incurred have been capitalised on a Group basis to the extent that there is an appropriate qualifying asset. The weighted average
interest rate used by the Group for capitalisation is 4.3% (2011 – 5.9%).
7     Taxation
2012 2011
$m $m
Current tax charge (excluding special items):
United Kingdom tax charge – – 
Current tax credit at 25% (2011 – 28%)
i
– – 
Less amount of the benefit arising from double tax relief available – – 
Overseas current tax expense at 28% (2011 – 28%) 10 13 
Corporate tax expense – current year 9 18 
Adjustment in respect of prior years 1 (6)
Tax on dividends remitted – 1 
Deferred tax charge (excluding special items):
Deferred tax expense – UK and overseas 29 43 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 31 47 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (2) (4)
Deferred tax credit on special items – UK and overseas (note 3): (187) (84)
Reversal of utilisation of losses from prior years to offset deferred tax liability (2) (2)
Exchange on current taxation 
ii
– (1)
Exchange on deferred taxation 
ii
(17) (81)
Tax on special items impacting profit before tax (168) – 
Actual tax credit (148) (28)
Tax charge excluding special items (note 3) 39 56 
Effective tax rate 21% (9%)
Effective tax rate excluding special items (note 3) 68% 18%
                                                    
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 125]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
7     Taxation (continued)
A reconciliation of the standard tax (credit) / charge to the actual tax credit was as follows:
2012 2012 2011 2011
% $m % $m
Tax (credit) / charge on (loss) / profit at standard tax rate 28 (195) 29 85 
Tax effect of:
– Overseas taxes on dividends remitted by subsidiary companies – – – 1 
– Unutilised losses 
iii
– – 1 5 
– Foreign exchange impacts on taxable profits (2) 14 (12) (38)
– Adjustment in respect of prior years – – (3) (10)
– Other – (1) 4 13 
Special items as defined above (5) 34 (28) (84)
Actual tax credit 21 (148) (9) (28)
The Group’s primary operations are based in South Africa. The South African statutory tax rate is 28% (2011 – 28%). Lonmin
Plc operates a branch in South Africa which is subject to a tax rate of 28% on branch profits (2011 – 33%). After taking into
account the tax rate effect of the Lonmin Plc branch, the aggregated standard tax rate for the Group is 28% (2011 – 29%).
The secondary tax rate on dividends remitted by South African companies was 10% (2011 – 10%). As from 1 April 2012 the
secondary tax on companies was replaced by dividend withholding tax at a standard rate of 15%. Dividends payable by the
South African companies to Lonmin Plc will be subject to a 5% withholding tax benefitting from double taxation agreements.
        Footnotes:
i. Effective from 1 April 2012 the United Kingdom tax rate changed from 26% to 24%. Effective from 1 April 2013 the United Kingdom tax rate will
change from 24% to 23%. This does not significantly impact the Group’s deferred tax liabilities.
ii. Overseas tax charges are predominantly calculated based in Rand as required by the local authorities. As these subsidiaries’ functional currency is
US Dollar this leads to a variety of foreign exchange impacts being the retranslation of current and deferred tax balances and monetary assets, as
well as other translation differences. The Rand denominated deferred tax balance in US Dollars at 30 September 2012 is $461 million (30
September 2011 – $569 million).
iii. Unutilised losses reflect losses generated in entities for which no deferred tax is provided as it is not thought probable that future profits can be
generated against which a deferred tax asset could be offset or previously unrecognised losses utilised.
8     (Loss) / earnings per share
(Loss) / earnings per share ((LPS) / EPS) has been calculated on the loss attributable to equity shareholders amounting to 
$410 million (2011 – earnings of $273 million) using a weighted average number of 202,675,831 ordinary shares in issue
(2011 – 202,446,803 ordinary shares).               
Diluted (loss) / earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive
outstanding share options in accordance with IAS 33 – Earnings Per Share. In the 12 months to 30 September 2012
outstanding share options were anti-dilutive and so were excluded from diluted loss per share in accordance with IAS 33 –
Earnings Per Share.                                           
2012 2011
Loss for Per share Profit for Per share
the year Number of amount the year Number of amount
$m shares cents $m shares cents
Basic (LPS) / EPS (410) 202,675,831 (202.3) 273 202,446,803 134.8 
Share option schemes –– – – 617,567 (0.4)
Diluted (LPS) / EPS (410) 202,675,831 (202.3) 273 203,064,370 134.4 
                                                                          
2012 2011
Profit for Per share Profit for Per share
the year Number of amount the year Number of amount
$m shares cents $m shares cents
Underlying EPS 15 202,675,831 7.4 226 202,446,803 111.6 
Share option schemes – 1,690,435 (0.1) – 617,567 (0.3)
Diluted Underlying EPS 15 204,366,266 7.3 226 203,064,370 111.3 
                                                                          
Underlying earnings per share has been presented as the Directors consider it important to present the underlying results of
the business. Underlying earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude
special items (as defined in note 3) as follows:                         
Notes to the Accounts [ 126] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
8     (Loss) / earnings per share (continued)
2012 2011
(Loss) / profit Per share Profit for Per share
for the year Number of amount the year Number of amount
$m shares cents $m shares cents
Basic (LPS) / EPS (410) 202,675,831 (202.3) 273 202,446,803 134.8 
Special items (note 3) 425 – 209.7 (47) – (23.2)
Underlying EPS 15 202,675,831 7.4 226 202,446,803 111.6 
Headline earnings and the resultant headline earnings per share are specific disclosures defined and required by the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange. These are calculated as follows:                                       
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2012 2011
$m $m
(Loss) / earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders (IAS 33 earnings) (410) 273 
Add back loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (note 4) – 2 
Add back impairment of assets (note 3) 616 2 
Tax related to the above items (120) (1)
Non-controlling interests (86) (1)
Headline earnings – 275 
2012 2011
(Loss) / profit Per share Profit for Per share
for the year Number of amount the year Number of amount
$m shares cents $m shares cents
Headline EPS – 202,675,831 – 275 202,446,803 135.8 
Share option schemes – 1,690,435 – – 617,567 (0.4)
Diluted Headline EPS – 204,366,266 – 275 203,064,370 135.4 
9     Dividends
2012 2011
$m Cents per share $m Cents per share
Prior year final dividend paid in the year 31 15.0 30 15.0 
Interim dividend paid in the year – – – – 
Total dividend paid in the year 31 15.0 30 15.0 
Interim dividend paid in the year –– – – 
Proposed final dividend for the year – – 30 15.0 
Total dividend in respect of the year – – 30 15.0 
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 127]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
10   Goodwill
2012 2011
$m $m
Cost:
At 30 September 186 186 
Impairment:
At 1 October 2011 73 73 
Impairment charge in the year 73 – 
At 30 September 2012 146 73 
Net book value at 30 September 40 113 
                                                    
There are two CGUs in the Group relevant for the purposes of evaluating goodwill. The Marikana CGU operates as a single
business and mines and processes substantially all of the ore produced by the Group. The Akanani CGU is located in a
separate geographic area and includes the Akanani asset acquired on the purchase of AfriOre Limited.   
The recoverable amounts of each of the CGUs’ goodwill have been determined using the higher of value in use and fair value
less costs to sell.                          
In determining the recoverable amounts for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs the key assumptions have been set out in the
Group’s impairment policy (see note 1).              
The impairment charge relates to the Akanani CGU (see note 11 for details).
At 30 September 2012 and 30 September 2011 goodwill is allocated as follows:               
• $40 million is allocated to the Marikana CGU which is within the PGM Operations segment. This arose on the buy out of
9.11% of the non-controlling interest in the principal mining operations of the Group in 2004.                                   
• 2012 $nil (2011 – $73 million) ‘tax goodwill’ is allocated to the Akanani CGU which is within the Evaluation segment. This
was generated on the acquisition of the Akanani asset in 2007.                                                                                
11   Intangible assets
2012 2011
Exploration Exploration
and Mineral and Mineral
evaluation rights Other Total evaluation rights Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Cost:
At 1 October 733 344 37 1,114 710 344 53 1,107 
Additions 4 – – 4 23 – – 23 
Assets derecognised – – – – – – (16) (16)
At 30 September 737 344 37 1,118 733 344 37 1,114 
Amortisation and impairment:
At 1 October – 94 27 121 – 87 42 129 
Charge for the year – 6 – 6 – 7 1 8 
Impairment charge 529 – – 529 – – – – 
Assets derecognised – – – – – – (16) (16)
At 30 September 529 100 27 656 – 94 27 121 
Net book value:
At 30 September 208 244 10 462 733 250 10 993 
                                                                          
The Group has exploration and evaluation assets of $208 million (2011 – $733 million) relating to the exploration and
evaluation operations at Akanani. After adding $nil (2011 – $73 million) of tax goodwill (see note 10) and deducting deferred
tax of $46 million (2011 – $178 million) the net carrying value of Akanani in the books is $162 million (2011 – $628 million)
including the non-controlling interests’ share.                           
Notes to the Accounts [ 128] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
11   Intangible assets (continued)
Additions to exploration and evaluation assets include $nil of capitalised interest (2011 – $20 million).
The Group’s approach to assessing the intangible assets, including exploration and evaluation assets, for impairment is set
out in the accounting policies (see note 1). During the second half of the financial year we completed a prefeasibility study on
the Akanani exploration and evaluation asset. This study provided an update on the results of the original concept study
undertaken at the time of acquisition. Based on the results of this prefeasibility study coupled with the current and long-term
PGM pricing outlook we have taken the decision to impair the asset by $602 million. The impairment charge has been applied
first to reduce goodwill to nil (see note 10) with the rest allocated to reduce the exploration and evaluation asset.
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill (see note 10).                                 
As part of a review of the intangible assets register, certain fully amortised items were derecognised from the assets register 
in 2011.                                                              
12   Property, plant and equipment
Capital work Shafts and Other plant
in progress underground Metallurgical Infrastructure and equipment Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Cost or deemed cost:
At 1 October 2011 715 1,471 666 570 133 3,555
Additions 394 25 4 7 10 440 
Transfers (282) 59 168 55 – –
Disposals – – (17) (3) – (20)
At 30 September 2012 827 1,555 821 629 143 3,975
Depreciation and impairment:
At 1 October 2011 – 467 240 258 23 988
Charge for the year – 37 30 47 6 120 
Impairment charge reversal – – – (2) – (2)
Disposals – – (17) (3) – (20)
At 30 September 2012 – 504 253 300 29 1,086 
Net book value:
At 30 September 2012 827 1,051 568 329 114 2,889
At 30 September 2011 715 1,004 426 312 110 2,567 
                                                                                                
Capital work Leasehold Shafts and Other plant
in progress short-term underground Metallurgical Infrastructure and equipment Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Cost or deemed cost:
At 1 October 2010 397 1 1,429 638 528 83 3,076 
Additions 390 – 20 2 23 51 486 
Transfers (72) – 25 26 21 – – 
Disposals – (1) (3) – (2) (1) (7)
At 30 September 2011 715 – 1,471 666 570 133 3,555 
Depreciation:
At 1 October 2010 – – 432 212 211 22 877 
Charge for the year – – 38 28 46 2 114 
Impairment charge – – – – 2 – 2 
Disposals – – (3) – (1) (1) (5)
At 30 September 2011 – – 467 240 258 23 988 
Net book value:
At 30 September 2011 715 – 1,004 426 312 110 2,567 
At 30 September 2010 397 1 997 426 317 61 2,199 
Interest capitalised during 2012 amounted to $26 million (2011 – $26 million). In accordance with the Group accounting
policies no depreciation has been provided on surface mining land having a book value of $13 million (2011 – $13 million).
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 129]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
13   Equity accounted investments
The Group owns 23.56% of its associate, Incwala Resources (Pty) Limited which is incorporated in South Africa. The
functional currency of Incwala Resources (Pty) Limited is the South African Rand. As a result any foreign exchange translation
gains or losses on the net assets of the Company are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group also owns 42.5% of the Pandora joint venture whose operations are in South Africa. The Group equity accounts
for the joint venture as a jointly controlled entity. The functional currency of the Pandora joint venture is the South African
Rand. As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the entity are recognised in the
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.                  
2012 2011
Group Group
share of share of 
net assets Goodwill Total net assets Goodwill Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Net book value at 1 October 169 6 175 166 6 172 
Share of (loss) / profit – (6) (6) 9 – 9 
Distribution of profits (9) – (9) – – – 
Capital contributions 2 – 2 2 – 2 
Foreign exchange (5) – (5) (8) – (8)
Net book value at 30 September 157 – 157 169 6 175 
The Group’s share of the net assets of equity accounted investments comprises the following:                
2012 2011
Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets 134 49 183 143 40 183 
Current assets 7 10 17 5 35 40 
Current liabilities (3) (17) (20) (3) (27) (30)
Non-current liabilities (23) – (23) (24) – (24)
Net assets 115 42 157 121 48 169 
                                                    
Amounts recognised by the Group in respect of the equity accounted investments comprise:                  
2012 2011
Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Share of net assets 115 42 157 121 48 169 
Goodwill – – – 6 – 6 
115 42 157 127 48 175 
                                                    
The Group’s share of the (loss) / profit of equity accounted investments comprises the following:             
2012 2011
Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue / income 3 18 21 2 17 19 
Expenses including taxation (1) (16) (17) (1) (9) (10)
Special item:
– Impairment of investment in Akanani 
i
(10) – (10) –––
(Loss) / profit (8) 2 (6) 1 8 9 
        Footnote:
i. This refers to the impairment of Incwala’s 26% share in Akanani following the Group’s impairment of the assets as detailed in note 11.
Notes to the Accounts [ 130] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
14   Other financial assets
Available HDSA HDSA
for sale receivable derivative Total
$m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2011 48 351 – 399
Additions 2 – – 2
Interest accrued 1 16 – 17 
Movement in fair value (8) – – (8)
Exchange differences – 14 – 14
Impairment loss (6) – – (6)
At 30 September 2012 37 381 – 418 
                                                                                          
Available HDSA HDSA
for sale receivable derivative Total
$m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2010 62 318 24 404 
Additions 9 21 – 30 
Interest accrued – 15 – 15 
Movement in fair value (20) – (24) (44)
Exchange differences (3) (3) – (6)
At 30 September 2011 48 351 – 399 
                                                                                          
Listed investments within available for sale financial assets are held at fair value using the market price on 30 September 2012
and 30 September 2011.             
2012 2011
$m $m 
Listed investments 19 30 
                                                                                          
Listed investments include a 4% shareholding in Platmin Limited (2011 – 4%) which was listed on the Alternative Investment
Market on 10 August 2006. The $6 million (2011– $nil) impairment of available for sale financial assets represents the loss in
value of our share in Platmin Limited following the company’s delisting in December 2011.                                            
Available for sale financial assets include $18 million (2011 – $18 million) of restricted cash deposits in respect of rehabilitation
obligations.                                                                                                    
On 8 July 2010, Lonmin entered into an agreement to provide financing amounting to £200 million for Shanduka’s acquisition,
at fair value, of 50.03% of shares in Incwala from the original HDSA shareholders. The terms of the financing provided by
Lonmin to Shanduka include the accrual of interest on the HDSA receivable at fixed rates based on a principal value of 
£200 million which is repayable after 5 years including accrued interest, or earlier at Shanduka’s discretion.
Details of the change in the HDSA derivative during the year can be found in note 21g.
15   Inventories
2012 2011
$m $m
Consumables 65 50 
Work in progress 193 299 
Finished goods 2 35 
260 384 
                                                                                          
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $1,374 million (2011 – 
$1,442 million).                                                   
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 131]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
16   Trade and other receivables
2012 2011
$m $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables 33 82 
Other receivables 43 66 
Prepayments and accrued income 3 6 
79 154 
17   Trade and other payables
2012 2011
$m $m
Trade payables 114 179 
Accruals and other payables 207 167 
Indirect taxation and social security 7 8 
328 354 
18   Interest bearing loans and borrowings
2012 2011
$m $m
Short-term loans:
Bank loans – unsecured 123 10 
Long-term loans:
Bank loans – unsecured 613 300 
736 310 
The maturity profile of interest bearing loans and borrowings is disclosed in note 21b.                             
In 2012 $6 million (2011 – $8 million) of unamortised bank fees have been offset against loans according to the amortisation profile.
Bank debt facilities consist of a $700 million syndicated US Dollar facility and three South African Rand bilateral facilities of
R660 million each.                        
The main features of the $700 million syndicated facility which is supported by BNP Paribas S.A., Citigroup Global Markets
Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, J.P . Morgan Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. and Standard
Chartered Bank are as follows:
• a $300 million five-year amortising term facility that matures in May 2016;                     
• a $400 million five-year committed revolving credit facility that matures in May 2016;    
• the margin on both these facilities is determined by reference to net debt / underlying EBITDA and will be in the range
200bps to 375bps; and         
• the key covenants in these facilities include a maximum consolidated net debt / underlying EBITDA ratio of 4.0 times and a
minimum underlying EBITDA / net interest ratio of 3.5 times.                   
The three R660 million bilateral facilities are at the Western Platinum Limited level, the operating company. These facilities are
supported by FirstRand Bank Limited, Investec Bank Limited and The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited. The main
features of these facilities are as follows:
• each facility is of a revolving credit nature and consists of a R330 million five year committed component and a R330
million one year committed component that can be rolled annually at the discretion of the bank;        
• the margins on these facilities vary from facility to facility and bank to bank; and            
• the key covenants in these facilities include a maximum net debt / underlying EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times and a minimum
underlying EBITDA / net interest ratio of 3.5 times calculated at a Western Platinum Limited level.      
Notes to the Accounts [ 132] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
18   Interest bearing loans and borrowings (continued)
As at 30 September 2012, Lonmin had net debt of $421 million, comprising $739 million of drawn facilities net of $315 million of
cash and equivalents and $6 million of unamortised bank fees and a further $3 million of external debt incurred to fund the
construction of a chrome treatment plant with an outside partner. Undrawn facilities amounted to $199 million (2011 – $636 million).
Subsequent to year end, the Group has entered into amended financial arrangements which will come into effect on the
successful completion of a Rights Issue. Refer to the “going concern” section in note 1 as well as the subsequent events
detailed in note 32 for further details.                 
19   Derivative financial instruments
2012 2011
$m $m
Current liabilities
Derivative financial instruments liability 5 5 
Non-current liabilities
Derivative financial instruments liability 10 9 
                                                                
The Group does not undertake trading activity in financial instruments. Forward sales may be undertaken where the Board
determines that it is in the Group’s interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows as they mitigate exposure to future price
fluctuations. Such forward sales are designated as cash flow hedges at inception. No forward sales were undertaken in 2012.
In 2011 the Group entered into a 5 year interest rate swap to swap its exposure to a base floating interest rate linked to a 6
month USD Libor into a blended fixed rate of 2.1711% on its $300m syndicated term loan that matures on 25 May 2016. This
swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge. The fair value of interest rate swaps at the end of 2012 amounted to a
liability of $15 million (2011 – $14 million). In addition to the base rate, the loan also carries a credit margin, which varies
according to Group Net Debt / underlying EBITDA.                 
20   Deferred revenue
In   March 2012 Lonmin entered into a pre-paid sale of 75% of its current gold production for the next 54 months. Under this
contract Lonmin will deliver 70,700 ounces of gold over the period with delivery on a quarterly basis and in return received an
upfront payment of $107 million. Proceeds of the pre-paid sale are treated as deferred revenue and amortised to profit as
deliveries occur.                            
2012 2011
$m $m
Deferred revenue received 107 – 
Less: Contractual deliveries (13) – 
Closing balance 94 – 
Current liabilities
Deferred revenue 24 – 
Non-current liabilities
Deferred revenue 70 – 
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 133]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
21   Financial risk management
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs (liquidity risk), the risk of
default by counterparties to financial transactions (credit risk), fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates and
commodity prices (market risk).    
21a Credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.      
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was:            
2012 2011
$m $m
Non-current assets:
HDSA receivable 381 351 
Other financial assets 37 48 
Current assets:
Trade receivables 33 82 
Other receivables 43 66 
Tax recoverable 3 1 
Cash and cash equivalents 315 76 
812 624 
HDSA receivables
HDSA receivables as described in note 14 are secured on the HDSA’s shareholding in Incwala. The equity value of this
shareholding was $199 million at 30 September 2012.                          
The HDSA receivable of $381 million (2011 – $351 million) is not past due and has no provision against it.             
Trade receivables
The Group is exposed to significant trade receivable credit risk through the sale of PGM metals to a limited group of
customers.                            
This risk is managed as follows:                  
• aged analysis is performed on trade receivable balances and reviewed on a monthly basis;         
• credit ratings are obtained on any new customers and the credit ratings of existing customers are monitored on an
ongoing basis;                
• credit limits are set for customers; and 
• trigger points and escalation procedures are clearly defined.            
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic location was:         
2012 2011
$m $m
The Americas – 3 
Asia 6 5 
Europe 10 53 
South Africa 17 21 
33 82 
                                             
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows:     
2012 2011
Gross Provision Net Gross Provision Net
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Not past due 33 – 33 82 – 82 
Banking counterparties
Banking counterparty credit risk is managed by spreading financial transactions across an approved list of counterparties
of high credit quality. Banking counterparties are approved by the Board and consist of the ten banks that have
participated in Lonmin’s existing bank debt facilities as described in note 18.
Notes to the Accounts [ 134] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
21   Financial risk management (continued)
21b Liquidity risk and capital management
Liquidity risk
The policy on overall liquidity is to ensure that the Group has sufficient funds to facilitate all ongoing operations.    
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of
netting agreements:              
Carrying Contractual < 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 > 5
amount cash flows year years years years
30 September 2012 $m $m $m $m $m $m
Financial liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans 742 (840) (152) (80) (608) –
Trade and other payables 328 (328) (328) – – – 
Derivative financial instruments 15 (15) (5) (5) (5) – 
                                             
Carrying Contractual < 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 > 5
amount cash flows year years years years
30 September 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m
Financial liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans 318 (359) (19) (17) (323) – 
Trade and other payables 354 (354) (354) – – – 
Derivative financial instruments 14 (14) (5) (5) (4) – 
Capital management
The Group’s philosophy on capital management is to maintain a low level of financial gearing given the exposure of the
business to fluctuations in PGM commodity prices and the Rand / US Dollar exchange rate. The Group funds its
operations through a mixture of equity funding and bank borrowings.    
The table below presents quantitative data for the components the Group manages as capital:        
2012 2011
$m $m
Equity shareholders’ funds 2,488 2,930 
Loans and borrowings 736 310 
Cash and cash equivalents (315) (76)
At 30 September 2,909 3,164 
                                             
As part of the annual budgeting and long-term planning process, the Group’s cash flow forecast is reviewed and
approved by the Board. The cash flow forecast is amended for any material changes identified during the year, for
example material acquisitions and disposals. Where funding requirements are identified from the cash flow forecast,
appropriate measures are taken to ensure these requirements can be satisfied. Factors taken into consideration are:
• the size and nature of the requirement; 
• preferred sources of finance applying key criteria of cost, commitment, availability, security / covenant conditions;
• recommended counterparties, fees and market conditions; and      
• covenants, guarantees and other financial commitments.                 
Prior to the strike disruption, the Group had embarked on a review of its growth strategy, future production profile and
capital investment programme as a result of prevailing subdued short-term demand for PGMs. The strike disruption and
the continued PGM market environment has significantly altered the outlook of the PGM industry as a whole
necessitating the Group’s further review of its strategy and capital structure. To this end, the Board has concluded that
reducing capital expenditure in the near term and raising additional equity, in conjunction with a revision to bank facilities
will result in the appropriate capital structure and retain the Group’s flexibility as regards financial risks.
Consequently the announcement of these results will coincide with the launch of a Rights Issue which is conditional on,
amongst other things, shareholder approval. The Group proposes to raise approximately $817 million before expenses as
well as revise the existing debt facilities. Details of the Rights Issue and proposed amendments to debt facilities are
included in our Rights Issue Prospectus.
Gearing, calculated on net borrowings attributable to the Group divided by those attributable net borrowings and the
equity interests outstanding at the financial reporting date, was 14% at 30 September 2012 (30 September 2011 – 7%).
The ratio of consolidated net debt to underlying EBITDA increased from 0.54 times at 30 September 2011 to 2.18 times
at 30 September 2012 which is well within the covenants relating to the bank facilities.                    
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 135]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
21   Financial risk management (continued)
21c Foreign currency risk
The Group’s operations are essentially based in South Africa and the majority of the revenue stream is in US Dollars.
However, the bulk of the Group’s operating costs and taxes are paid in Rand. Most of the cash received in South Africa is
in US Dollars. Most of the Group’s funding sources are in US Dollars.    
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on monetary items that are denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency of the relevant Group entity.                
The table below shows the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other
than the functional currency of the relevant Group entity. Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of such assets
and liabilities are recognised in the income statement.      
2012 2011
SA Rand Sterling Other Total SA Rand Sterling Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets:
Available for sale financial assets 18 – 19 37 18 – 30 48 
HDSA receivable – 381 – 381 – 351 – 351 
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables 40 – – 40 108 1 – 109 
Cash and cash equivalents 167 – – 167 43 3 – 46 
Tax recoverable 3 – – 3 1 – – 1 
Current liabilities:
Trade and other payables (284) (5) – (289) (333) (6) (6) (345)
Tax payable – – – – (2) – – (2)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings (123) – – (123) (10) – – (10)
Non-current liabilities:
Interest bearing loans and borrowings (122) – – (122) (8) – – (8)
(301) 376 19 94 (183) 349 24 190 
                                             
The principal exchange rates impacting the Group’s results are Rand / Dollar and Sterling / Dollar. Details of average
exchange rates and closing exchange rates can be found in the Operating Statistics. 
The Group also carries a $461 million Rand denominated deferred tax liability on the balance sheet which is exposed 
to currency risk (2011 – $569 million).         
Our current policy is not to hedge Rand / US Dollar currency exposures and, therefore, fluctuations in the Rand to US
Dollar exchange rate can have a significant impact on the Group’s results. A strengthening of the Rand against the 
US Dollar has an adverse effect on profits due to the majority of operating costs being paid in Rand. 
The approximate effects on the Group’s results of a 10% movement in the Rand to US Dollar 2012 average and closing
exchange rate would be as follows:            
2012 2011
Underlying operating (loss) / profit ±$117m ±$142m
Underlying (loss) / profit for the year ±$69m ±$102m
Equity ±$69m ±$102m
EPS (cents) ±34.0c ±50.6c
                                             
These sensitivities are based on 2012 prices, costs and volumes and assume all other variables remain constant. 
Notes to the Accounts [ 136] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
21   Financial risk management (continued)
21d Interest rate risk
Currently, the bulk of our outstanding borrowings are in US Dollars and at floating rates of interest. However, to provide
greater certainty, Lonmin entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap on the term component of the US Dollar debt.
This fixes the base rate in respect of the $300 million term facility for the next five years (refer to note 19 for details). The
interest position is kept under constant review in conjunction with the liquidity policy outlined in note 21b and the future
funding requirements of the business.                              
Based on contracted maturities the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over future years as shown below:
Weighted average
interest rate in 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
% $m $m $m $m
Liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans 
i
4.3 (123) –– (319)
Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates At fixed interest rates
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Financial assets:
US Dollar 36 39 148 29 – – 
SA Rand 43 109 185 61 – – 
Sterling – 1 – 3 381 351 
Other 19 30 – 1 – – 
98 179 333 94 381 351 
Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates At fixed interest rates
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Financial liabilities:
US Dollar 39 9 212 14 300 300 
SA Rand 284 335 245 18 – – 
Sterling 5 6 – – – – 
Other – 6 – – – – 
328 356 457 32 300 300 
        Footnote:
i. Figures are based on facilities outstanding at the financial reporting date.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
A change in the interest rate will have limited effect on equity and profit or loss due to the majority of interest being
capitalised. 
21e Commodity price risk
Our policy is not to hedge commodity price exposure on PGMs, except gold, and therefore any change in prices will have
a direct effect on the Group’s trading results.
For base metals and gold, hedging is undertaken where the Board determines that it is in the Group’s interest to hedge a
proportion of future cash flows. The policy is to hedge up to a maximum of 75% of the future cash flows from the sale of
these products looking forward over the next 12 to 24 months. The Group did not undertake any hedging of base metals
under this authority in the financial year and no forward contracts were in place in respect of base metals at the end of
the year. In 2012 the Group undertook a prepaid sale of Gold. Refer to note 20 for details.                                     
The approximate effects on the Group’s results of a 10% movement in the 2012 average metal prices achieved for Platinum
(Pt) ($1,517 per ounce), Palladium (Pd) ($630 per ounce) and Rhodium (Rh) ($1,274 per ounce) would be as follows:
2012 2011
Pt Pd Rh Pt Pd Rh
Underlying operating (loss) / profit ±$106m ±$21m ±$15m ±$128m ±$28m ±$22m
Underlying (loss) / profit for the year ±$63m ±$12m ±$9m ±$92m ±$17m ±$16m
Equity ±$63m ±$12m ±$9m ±$92m ±$17m ±$16m
EPS (cents) ±31.0c ±5.9c ±4.4c ±45.4c ±8.2c ±7.8c
                                                                                                                                    
These sensitivities are based on 2012 prices, costs and volumes and assume all other variables remain constant. 
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 137]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
21   Financial risk management (continued)
21f Fair values
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the                           
statement of financial position, are as follows:
2012 2011
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
$m $m $m $m
Available for sale financial assets 37 37 48 48 
HDSA receivable 381 381 351 351 
HDSA derivative – 5 – 21 
Trade and other receivables 76 76 148 148 
Tax recoverable 3 3 1 1 
Cash and cash equivalents 315 315 76 76 
Financial assets 812 817 624 645 
Trade and other payables (328) (328) (354) (354)
Unsecured bank loans (742) (742) (318) (318)
Derivative financial instruments (15) (15) (14) (14)
Tax payable – – (2) (2)
Financial liabilities (1,085) (1,085) (688) (688)
Net financial liabilities (273) (268) (64) (43)
                                                                                         
Listed investments within available for sale financial assets are marked to market. The residual balances in available for
sale financial assets relate to cash deposits held in respect of rehabilitation obligations for which carrying values are at 
fair value.                                                                          
The HDSA receivable represents loans held at amortised cost.                                    
The HDSA derivative asset and other derivative financial instruments are held at fair value subject to limitations under
IFRS in recognising day one gains (see note 21g).                                                       
For cash and cash equivalents the carrying value is equal to fair value.  
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables these are typically due within one month and therefore the
carrying amount is fair value.                                            
For unsecured bank loans there is considered to be no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value.
Amounts are shown gross of unamortised bank fees.       
21g Fair value hierarchy
The following is an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured at fair value.                                          
They are grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the extent to which the fair value is observable.                                 
The levels are classified as follows:                                   
Level 1 – fair value is based on quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities;                
Level 2 – fair value is determined using inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and                     
Level 3 – fair value is determined on inputs not based on observable market data.                            
2012
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
$m $m $m $m
Available for sale financial assets 15 4 – 19 
Derivative financial instruments – (15) – (15)
15 (11) – 4 
                                                                   
                                                                   
Notes to the Accounts [ 138] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
21   Financial risk management (continued)
21g Fair value hierarchy (continued)
2011
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
$m $m $m $m
Available for sale financial assets 30 – – 30 
Derivative financial instruments – (14) – (14)
30 (14) – 16 
                                                                   
Included at level 3 is a derivative that relates only to arrangements with Shanduka for Lonmin to participate in equity gains
arising from Shanduka’s investment in Incwala. The value of the derivative is based on the equity gain arising on Shanduka’s
interest in Incwala and therefore the underlying value of the Platinum operations in which Incwala has an interest. This is
assessed by using a “see-through” valuation method based on the overall value of Lonmin Plc. Whilst the calculation of
value of the derivative instrument therefore includes a Monte Carlo analysis of Lonmin’s share price, the valuation is also
dependant on a number of key management assumptions and must be classified as level 3 under IFRS 7.               
The key management assumptions include an assessment of Lonmin’s share price volatility, the nature of various liquidity
events which can give rise to settlement of the derivative, the likelihood of settlement occurring and the timing of the
settlement event. As at 30 September 2012 a 10% movement in share price will impact the fair value by $2 million, a
10% movement in volatility will effect the fair value by $1 million. The fair value calculated assumes that there is only a
10% chance of the derivative being settled before the instrument becomes due at the end of five years.                
IAS 39 does not permit a day one gain to be recognised to the extent that the fair value of the hybrid financial instrument is
derived from unobservable market data. At initial recognition the fair value of the derivative was $33 million, however, this
included day one gains of $21 million which are not permitted to be recognised and therefore management’s assessment of
the unobservable data contributing to the valuation of the asset was adjusted to eliminate the day one gain.
Subsequent to initial recognition a cumulative fair value decrease of $28 million occurred in the years to 30 September
2012, reducing the carrying value of the derivative on the statement of financial position to $nil. Subsequent to initial
recognition, IAS 39 requires that a gain or loss shall be recognised only to the extent that it arises from a change in a
factor (including time) that market participants would consider in setting a price.         
22   Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
2012 2011
Deferred Deferred Net Deferred Deferred Net
tax assets tax liabilities balance tax assets tax liabilities balance
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in respect of: $m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets – (648) (648) – (773) (773)
Provisions 75 – 75 47 – 47 
Trading losses 5 – 5 – – – 
Share-based payments 6 – 6 10 – 10 
86 (648) (562) 57 (773) (716)
Movement in temporary differences during the year
                                                    
Recognised in income
At 1 Special items Recognised in At 30
October Exchange Other special comprehensive September
2011 movements items Underlying income 2012
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets (773) 16 166 (57) – (648)
Provisions 47 1 – 27 – 75 
Trading losses – – – 5 – 5 
Share-based payments 10 – 2 (4) (2) 6 
(716) 17 168 (29) (2) (562)
                                                    
                                                    
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 139]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
22   Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) (continued)
Recognised in income
At 1 Special items Recognised in At 30
October Exchange Other special comprehensive September
2010 movements items Underlying income 2011
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets (790) 85 1 (69) – (773)
Provisions 29 (3) – 21 – 47 
Cash flow hedges 1 – – (1) – – 
Trading losses 3 – – (1) (2) – 
Share-based payments 6 (1) – 7 (2) 10 
(751) 81 1 (43) (4) (716)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2012 2011
Unrecognised Unrecognised
deferred tax deferred tax
Temporary assets/ Temporary assets/
differences (liabilities) differences (liabilities)
$m $m $m $m
Capital losses carried forward 162 45 613 172 
Trading and other losses carried forward 85 24 79 22 
Unredeemed capital expenditure 287 80 293 82 
Share-based payments – – 3 1 
Unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries (1,642) (82) (1,700) (170)
(1,108) 67 (712) 107 
                                                    
The temporary differences above, except for the unremitted profits from overseas subsidiaries, are subject to the local tax rate
in the United Kingdom at 23% (2011 – 28%), South Africa at 28% (2011 – 28%) and Canada at 18% (2011 – 18%). As from 
1 April 2012 the secondary tax on companies was replaced by dividend withholding tax levied on the shareholder at a
standard rate of 15%. Dividends payable by the South African companies to Lonmin Plc will be subject to a 5% withholding
tax benefitting from double taxation agreements. Therefore unrecognised deferred tax liabilities generated by the timing
difference relating to unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries in 2012 only apply to Plc for dividends receivable from WPL
and EPL at a rate of 5%.              
At 30 September 2012, the Group had an amount of $114 million (2011 – $111 million) of surplus Advanced Corporation Tax
(ACT) available, subject to certain restrictions, for set-off against future United Kingdom corporation tax liabilities. ‘Shadow
ACT’ amounted to $274 million (2011 – $257 million) and must be set-off prior to the utilisation of surplus ACT.            
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of the trading and other losses and the capital losses as
management believe the chances of recovery are low.                                  
23   Provisions
2012 2011
$m $m
At 1 October 125 80 
Capitalised on non-current assets 10 52 
Established in the year 20 2 
Utilised in the year (3) – 
Unwinding of discount (note 6) 11 7 
Exchange differences (20) (16)
At 30 September 143 125 
                                                                          
Provisions represent site rehabilitation liabilities and generally assume the cash flows occur at the end of the life of the mine.
The Group provided third party guarantees to the Department of Minerals and Energy amounting to $71 million (2011 – 
$50 million) in connection with these rehabilitation obligations which the Group has to fund in order to restore the environment
once all mining operations have ceased.                                  
                                                                          
Notes to the Accounts [ 140] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
24   Contingent liabilities
2012 2011
$m $m
Third party guarantees 
i
12 6 
        Footnote
i. The Group provided third party guarantees to Eskom as security to cover estimated electricity accounts for three months.
25   Called up share capital and share premium account
Number $m
Ordinary shares of $1 each:
– Issued and fully paid – 2012 203,057,369 203 
– Issued and fully paid – 2011 202,657,369 203 
Deferred shares of £1 each:
– Issued and fully paid – 2012 and 2011 50,000 – 
Issued and Paid up Share 
fully paid amount premium 
Number $m $m
At 1 October 2011:
Ordinary shares of $1 each 202,657,369 203 997
The issue of shares pursuant to:
Issue of shares to the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust
(Shareholder Value Incentive Plan and Stay & Prosper Plan) 400,000 – – 
At 30 September 2012:
Ordinary shares of $1 each 203,057,369 203 997
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of the
ordinary shares are governed by law and the Company’s Articles of Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to receive notice of any general meeting, 
to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy and are entitled to participate in any distribution of
income or capital.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except where the
Company has exercised its rights to suspend voting rights or to prohibit transfer.
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 141]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
26   Share plans
At 30 September 2012, the following options and awards were outstanding:                      
Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average
exercise price remaining fair value
of outstanding contracted of options
Number options life granted
of shares (pence) (years) (£)
Share Plans
Executive Share Option Scheme
Outstanding at 1 October 2011 127,755 1,025.76 – – 
Granted during the year – – – – 
Exercised during the year – – – – 
Lapsed during the year (81,376) – – – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2012 46,379 1,098.00 – – 
Exercisable at the end of the year 46,379 899.00 1.00 – 
Lonmin Share Option Scheme 
Outstanding at 1 October 2011 1,900 1,098.00 – – 
Granted during the year – – – – 
Exercised during the year – 1,098.00 – – 
Lapsed during the year (1,900) 1,098.00 – – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2012 – – – – 
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – – 
Long Term Incentive Plan
Outstanding at 1 October 2011 1,421,731 – – – 
Granted during the year 1,023,327 – – – 
Exercised during the year (117,549) – – – 
Lapsed during the year (352,311) – – – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2012 1,975,198 – 2.23 4.13
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – –
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
Outstanding at 1 October 2011 39,636 – – – 
Granted during the year – – – – 
Exercised during the year – – – – 
Lapsed during the year (39,636) – – – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2012 – – – – 
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – – 
Stay & Prosper Plan
Outstanding at 1 October 2011 2,493,414 – – – 
Granted during the year 3,110,608 – – – 
Exercised during the year (262,413) – – – 
Lapsed during the year (460,741) – – – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2012 4,880,868 – 2.42 4.13 
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – – 
ASAP
Outstanding at 1 October 2011 – – – – 
Granted during the year 137,319 – – – 
Exercised during the year – – – – 
Lapsed during the year – – – – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2012 137,319 – 2.52 – 
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – – 
                                                                          
Further information about each of the above plans, including the performance conditions, can be found in the Remuneration
Committee Report.                                            
                                                                          
                                                                          
Notes to the Accounts [ 142] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
26   Share plans (continued)
Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust (the “Trust”)
At 30 September 2012 the Trust held 164,951 shares (beneficially and as bare trustee) (2011 – 163,304 shares). The market
value of these shares at the year end was $1.5 million. Where not waived, dividends payable on these shares are held by the
Trust on behalf of the participants. Ian Farmer and Simon Scott are deemed to have a beneficial interest, to the extent of their
Invested and Bonus Shares pursuant to the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (included in the table of Directors’ share interests),
and a non-beneficial interest in the balance.                             
Details of options granted during the year
The fair value of equity settled options granted in the year have been measured using the weighted average inputs below and
the following valuation models:                           
SAYE Black-Scholes
LTIP Monte Carlo
DABP Monte Carlo
Stay & Prosper Monte Carlo
Scarce Skills Black-Scholes
2012 2011
Range of share price at date of grant (£) 5.58 – 10.37 12.35 – 16.83
Exercise price (£) – –
Expected option life (years) 3 3
Volatility 44% 69%
Dividend yield 1.7% 1.2%
Risk free interest rate 0.0% 0.1%
                                                                          
Volatility was calculated with reference to the Group’s historic share price volatility up to the grant date. The number of years
of historic data used is equal to the term of each option.                               
27   Related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors and key management (as disclosed in the Remuneration Report
and in note 5) and its equity accounted investments (note 13).                      
The Group’s related party transactions and balances are summarised below:                                           
2012 2011
$m $m
Purchases from joint venture – Pandora 44 46 
Amounts due from joint venture – Pandora 6 1 
Amounts due from associate – Incwala 2 2 
Dividends to minorities – Incwala 
i
14 10 
Interest accrued from HDSA investors in Incwala 16 15 
Subscription paid to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association 
ii
14 14 
Purchases made from Xstrata 
iii
1 1 
Sales to Xstrata 
iii
27 15 
Amounts due from Xstrata 
iii
1 3 
Amounts due from HDSA investors in Incwala 381 351 
                                                                          
All related party transactions are priced on an arm’s length basis.                                       
        Footnotes:
i. A Group company has made a series of non-interest bearing loans to Incwala Platinum (Pty) Limited (“IP”). IP is a substantial shareholder in the
Company’s principal operating subsidiaries. Advanced dividends in the sums of R25m, R79m, R79m, R80m and R120m were made to IP on 
28 September 2009, 29 March 2010, 29 September 2010, 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2012 respectively. IP has authorised the
relevant Group company to recover these amounts by reducing future dividends that would otherwise be payable to all shareholders. 
ii. The subscription paid by Lonmin is material to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association of which Lonmin is a member.
iii. Xstrata Zinc BV has a 24.9% shareholding in Lonmin Plc. 
                                                                          
28   Capital commitments
2012 2011
$m $m
Contracted for but not yet provided 71 67 
Notes to the Accounts Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 143]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
29   Operating and finance leases
The full aggregate lease payments of the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are set out below:                  
Land and buildings
2012 2011
$m $m
Operating leases which fall due for payment:
Within one year 1 1 
Between one and five years 3 3 
Over five years 3 3 
7 7 
30   Net debt as defined by the Group
Foreign
As at exchange As at
1 October and non-cash 30 September
2011 Cash flow movements 2012
$m $m $m $m
Cash and cash equivalents 76 239 – 315 
Current borrowings (10) (110) (3) (123)
Non-current borrowings (308) (314) 3 (619)
Unamortised bank fees 8 – (2) 6
Net debt as defined by the Group (234) (185) (2) (421)
Foreign
As at exchange As at
1 October and non-cash 30 September
2010 Cash flow movements 2011
$m $m $m $m
Cash and cash equivalents 148 (74) 2 76 
Current borrowings (71) 61 – (10)
Non-current borrowings (462) 154 – (308)
Unamortised bank fees 10 – (2) 8 
Net debt as defined by the Group (375) 141 – (234)
                                                                          
Net debt as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest
bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees.                           
31   Principal Group companies
The following companies have been consolidated in the Group accounts and materially contributed to the assets and / or
results of the Group and are classified according to their main activity.                                
Interest in
ordinary
Country of share capital Principal
Company incorporation % activities
Eastern Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining
Western Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining and refining
Messina Platinum Mines Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining
Akanani Mining (Pty) Ltd South Africa 74.0 Subsidiary Mineral exploration and evaluation
                                                                          
A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.      
32   Events after the financial reporting period
On 29 October 2012 the Company entered into an agreement with Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, J.P .
Morgan Securities Plc and Standard Bank Plc to fully underwrite approximately $800 million Rights Issue. The Group has also
entered into amended financing arrangements which will come into effect upon successful completion of the Rights Issue.
Completion of the Rights Issue is conditional, amongst other things, upon shareholder approval at a General Meeting
expected to be held on 19 November 2012.
Notes to the Accounts [ 144] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet
as at 30 September                             
2012 2011
Note $m $m
Non-current assets
Tangible fixed assets 34 1 2 
Investments 1,523 1,753 
Shares in subsidiary undertakings 35 1,142 1,400 
Other financial assets 36 381 353 
Total non-current assets 1,524 1,755 
Current assets
Deferred tax 37 2 1 
Debtors 38 1,071 899 
Cash at bank and on hand 67 46 
Total current assets 1,140 946 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 39 (701) (704)
Net current assets 439 242 
Total assets less current liabilities 1,963 1,997 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 39 (504) (301)
Derivative financial instruments (10) (9)
Bank loans and overdrafts (494) (292)
Net assets 1,459 1,696 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 40 203 203 
Share premium account 40 997 997 
Other reserves 40 79 79 
Profit and loss account 40 180 417 
Total shareholders’ funds 40 1,459 1,696 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 November 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roger Phillimore Chairman
Simon Scott Chief Financial Officer Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 145]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
Notes to the Company Accounts
33   Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation
The Lonmin Plc (the Company) balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom
generally accepted accounting practice (UK GAAP) and in accordance with UK company law. The financial information has
been prepared on a historic cost basis as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments. The accounts have been
prepared on a going concern basis, as detailed in note 1 of the Group financial statements. The following principal accounting
policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company’s
financial statements.
The following amendment to the standards have been adopted in these financial statements for the first time:
• Improvements to FRS’s: FRS 8 – Related Party Disclosures is amended to replace the definition of a related party with that
set out in UK Law.
The Company’s functional currency is the US Dollar. The reporting currency is also the US Dollar.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in Section 408(4) of the Companies Act 2006 from presenting
its own profit and loss account.    
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1 – Cash Flow Statements and has not prepared a cash flow
statement.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or
balances with wholly owned subsidiaries which form part of the Group headed by Lonmin Plc.
Available for sale assets
The Company’s investment in Platmin Limited is measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity
except when the asset is impaired, then the impairment losses are taken to the income statement. Fair value is determined by
using the market price at the balance sheet date when this is available. For investments for which market price is not available
the Directors’ best estimate of market value is used.
Investment in subsidiaries
The Company’s investment in shares in Group companies are stated at cost less any provision for impairment. The principal
subsidiaries of the Company are LSA (UK) Limited (registered in England) and AfriOre Limited (registered in the British Virgin
Islands) which are both wholly owned by the Company. LSA (UK) Limited holds the investments in Western Platinum Limited,
Eastern Platinum Limited and Messina Platinum Mines Limited. AfriOre Limited holds the investment in Akanani (Pty) Limited.
For more information see note 31 of the Group financial statements.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are recorded at cost or valuation, which are not updated under the transitional arrangements of FRS 15
– Tangible Fixed Assets, less depreciation. Depreciation on fixed assets is provided on a straight-line basis. Assets are
depreciated over their estimated useful economic lives to residual value. Depreciation rates for the principal assets of the
Company are as follows:
Method Useful economic life Rate
Short term leasehold property Straight line Over the life of the lease 3 – 5 years
Fixtures and Fittings Straight line 10% – 33% per annum 3 – 10 years
Tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may
not be recoverable. When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net
present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant income generating unit or disposal value if higher in accordance
with FRS 11.
Financial instruments
The Company’s principal financial instruments (other than derivatives) comprise bank loans, investments, cash and short-term
deposits. 
Bank loans were initially recorded at fair value, and have subsequently been recorded at amortised cost using the effective
interest rate method.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are principally used by the Company to manage exposure to market risks from treasury
operations. The principal derivative instruments used are interest rate swaps which the Company has designated as cash flow
hedges. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.         [ 146] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Accounts
33   Accounting policies (continued)
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value and then remeasured
to fair value at subsequent reporting dates. Attributable costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred. The method of
recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the
nature of the item being hedged. Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges. 
HDSA receivable and HDSA derivative
The Company is the holder of a hybrid financial instrument in Shanduka. This comprises a HDSA receivable recognised initially
at fair value, and subsequently recorded at amortised cost, and a HDSA derivative which is held at fair value excluding day
one gain. 
Accounting for the financing provided by the Company for Shanduka’s acquisition of the non-controlling interests in the
Company’s principal subsidiaries is considered in notes 14 and 21g of the Group accounts.
Leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Current Tax
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes account of the taxation deferred because of timing
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.                       
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is provided, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for
taxation and accounting purposes that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise
required by FRS 19.
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits
For current employees, the Company either makes payments on behalf of employees into a defined contribution scheme
which the Company has set up, or makes direct payments to employees who may then make their own arrangements.
A defined contribution scheme is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into 
a separate legal entity and had no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to
defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they 
are due.                                        
Share-based payments
Equity settled schemes                                     
From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares. 
Cash settled schemes
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, 
is recognised as an expense, with corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become
unconditionally entitled to payment. The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date. Any changes 
in the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.                                      
Basis of fair value                        
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a
Monte Carlo projection model depending on the type of the award. Market related performance conditions are reflected in the
fair value of the share. Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the
number of awards expected to vest; the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market
conditions are met.
Share options and own shares held
In accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 25 – National Insurance Contributions on Share Option Gains (UITF 25),
the Company provides in full for the employer’s national insurance liability estimated to arise on the future exercise of share
options granted.                                                 
As required under Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 38 – Accounting for ESOP Trusts (UITF 38), the cost to the Company of
own shares held is shown as a deduction from shareholders’ funds within the profit and loss account. Consideration paid or
received for the purchase or sale of the Company’s own shares in the employee benefit trust is shown separately in the
reconciliation of movements in the shareholders’ funds.                                 Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 147]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
Notes to the Company Accounts
33   Accounting policies (continued)
Dividend reinvestment program
Under the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan, shareholders can elect for the whole of their cash dividends to be
reinvested in Lonmin Plc shares which are purchased on their behalf in the market. All cash dividends are paid to the
Registrars who use the dividends of participants in the plan to fund these purchases. Accordingly, no new shares are issued,
dividends are paid and accounted for in the normal way, and there are no special accounting requirements for the
programme.                                                       
Foreign currency
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of the Company using the exchange
rates prevailing at the dates of transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated
into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are
translated at the historic rate.                             
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on
the retranslation of available for sale financial assets, which are recognised directly in equity.                                         
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.                                           
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
All exploration and expenses relate to pre-feasibility work and, in line with Group policy, are expensed as incurred.       
Finance expenses
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees (including bank fees which are capitalised and
amortised over the life of the facility), interest costs of pension scheme liabilities, and losses on hedging instruments that are
recognised in the income statement.
34   Tangible fixed assets
Fixtures and
fittings
$m
Cost:
At 1 October 2011 3
Additions –
Disposals –
At 30 September 2012 3
Depreciation:
At 1 October 2011 1
Charge for the year 1
Disposals –
At 30 September 2012 2
Net book value:
At 30 September 2012 1
At 1 October 2011 2 [ 148] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Accounts
35   Shares in subsidiary undertakings
$m
Cost:
At 1 October 2011 1,538 
Additions – 
At 30 September 2012 1,538
Provisions:
At 1 October 2011 138 
Impairment losses 258 
At 30 September 2012 396
Net book value:
At 30 September 2012 1,142
At 1 October 2011 1,400 
$m
Cost:
At 1 October 2010 1,538 
Additions – 
At 30 September 2011 1,538 
Provisions:
At 1 October 2010 138 
Increase – 
At 30 September 2011 138 
Net book value:
At 30 September 2011 1,400 
At 1 October 2010 1,400 
The impairment loss of $258 million (2011 – $nil) relates to the investment in Akanani. The underlying exploration and
evaluation assets of Akanani were impaired based on the results of a prefeasibility study and the current and long-term PGM
pricing outlook. Refer to note 11 of the Group accounts for further detail.     
36   Other financial assets
Available HDSA HDSA
for sale receivable derivative Total
$m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2011 2 351 – 353
Interest accrued – 16 – 16
Movement in fair value (2) – – (2)
Exchange differences – 14 – 14
At 30 September 2012 – 381 – 381
Available HDSA HDSA
for sale receivable derivative Total
$m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2010 3 318 24 345 
Additions – 21 – 21 
Interest accrued – 15 – 15 
Movement in fair value (1) – (24) (25)
Exchange differences – (3) – (3)
At 30 September 2011 2 351 – 353 
For details of the HDSA receivable, and the HDSA derivative asset, refer to notes 14 and 21g of the Group accounts.   Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 149]
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance
Notes to the Company Accounts
36   Other financial assets (continued)
2012 2011
$m $m
Unlisted investments – 2 
The unlisted investment is in Platmin Limited which was delisted in December 2011.                                                     
37   Deferred tax 
2012 2011
$m $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Deferred Tax assets 2 1 
2 1 
The Company had a deferred tax asset of $2 million (2011 – $1 million) relating to the South African branch, from which
management believes that there will be sufficient future taxable profits to justify carrying the asset.
The Company had an unrecognised deferred tax asset of $4 million at 30 September 2012 based on timing differences of 
$19 million (2011 – $69 million based on timing differences of $246 million). No unrecognised deferred tax assets have been
disclosed in respect of United Kingdom operations, as management believe the chances of utilising future United Kingdom
taxable profits are low. The Company had $114 million of unrecognised surplus ACT at 30 September 2012 (2011 – 
$65 million). The Company had $274 million of unrecognised shadow ACT at 30 September 2012 (2011 – $257 million).
38   Debtors
2012 2011
$m $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary companies 1,071 899 
1,071 899 
39   Creditors
2012 2011
$m $m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts due to subsidiary companies 685 682 
Derivative financial instruments 5 5 
Other creditors 6 5 
Accruals and deferred income 5 12 
701 704 
2012 2011
$m $m
Amounts falling due after one year:
Derivative financial instruments 10 9 
Unsecured bank loans falling due within 3 to 4 years 494 – 
Unsecured bank loans falling due longer than 5 years – 292 
504 301 
Details of the loans are shown in note 18 to the Group accounts. [ 150] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Accounts
40   Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
Called up Share premium Other Profit and
share capital account reserves
i
loss account Total
$m $m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2011 203 997 79 417 1,696 
Loss for the year – – – (218) (218)
Dividends paid during the year – – – (31) (31)
Share-based payments – – – 14 14 
Change in fair value of available for sale financial assets – – – (2) (2)
Shares issued on exercise of share options 
ii
– – – – – 
At 30 September 2012 203 997 79 180 1,459 
Called up Share premium Other Profit and
share capital account reserves
i
loss account Total
$m $m $m $m $m
At 1 October 2010 202 997 88 452 1,739 
Loss for the year – – – (21) (21)
Dividends paid during the year – – – (30) (30)
Share-based payments – – – 17 17 
Change in fair value of available for sale financial assets – – – (1) (1)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges – – (9) – (9)
Shares issued on exercise of share options 
ii
1 – – – 1 
At 30 September 2011 203 997 79 417 1,696 
                                                                          
The loss of the Company for the 2012 financial year amounted to $218 million (2011 – $21 million).
Further details of called up share capital and share premium can be found in note 25 to the Group accounts.
Details of shares held in the employee benefit trust can be found in note 26 to the Group accounts.
        Footnotes:
i. Other reserves at 30 September 2012 represent the capital redemption reserve of $88 million (2011 – $88 million) and a $9 million hedging loss net
of deferred tax (30 September 2011 – $9 million hedging loss net of deferred tax). 
ii. During the year 400,000 share options were exercised (2011 – 364,924) on which $0.4 million of cash was received (2011 – $1 million).
41   Other information
Employees
The average number of employees of the Company during the year was 56 (2011 – 50) which includes 51 employees 
(2011 – 45) who work in the South African branch. Total staff costs, excluding charges for share options, were $13 million
(2011 – $18 million) which includes $9 million (2011 – $10 million) for employees working in the South Africa branch.
The staff costs are made up of wages and salaries $11 million (2011 – $16 million), social security costs $1 million 
(2011 – $nil) and pension payments $1 million (2011 – $2 million).
Directors’ emoluments are reported in the Remuneration Committee Report. No emoluments related specifically to their work
in the Company.
Pensions
For details of the Company’s pension scheme, refer to note 5 of the Group accounts.
Related party transactions
The Company’s only related party transaction has resulted in an amount due from HDSA investors in Incwala of $381 million
(2011 – $351 million) as per note 14 of the Group accounts. The Company also has a related party relationship with its
Directors and key management as disclosed in the Remuneration Committee Report.
Dividends
Refer to note 9 of the Group accounts.
Share-based payments
For details of the Company’s share plan and share option schemes, refer to note 26 of the Group accounts.
42   Events after the financial reporting period
On 29 October 2012 the Company entered into an agreement with Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, J.P .
Morgan Securities Plc and Standard Bank Plc to fully underwrite approximately $800 million Rights Issue. The Group has also
entered into amended financing arrangements which will come into effect upon successful completion of the Rights Issue.
Completion of the Rights Issue is conditional, amongst other things, upon shareholder approval at a General Meeting
expected to be held on 19 November 2012.       05 / 
      Shareholder Information
     
152  Consolidated Group Five Year Financial Record
153  Operating statistics – 5 year Review
157  Reserves & Resources
160  Shareholder Information
162  Corporate Information
163  Acronyms and Abbreviations
164  Financial Calendar
        
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements [ 152] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Shareholder Information
Consolidated Group Five Year Financial Record
for the year ended 30 September                              
Continuing operations 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Consolidated income statement:
Revenue $m 1,614 1,992 1,585 1,062 2,231 
Operating (loss) / profit 
1
$m (702) 307 203 (142) 764 
Underlying operating profit / (loss) 
1
$m 67 311 228 (93) 963 
(Loss) / profit before taxation $m (698) 293 240 (272) 779 
Underlying profit / (loss) before taxation $m 57 315 237 (111) 997 
Attributable (loss) / profit for the year $m (410) 273 112 (285) 455 
Underlying attributable profit / (loss) for the year $m 15 226 138 (103) 550 
Basic (loss) / earnings per share cents (202.3) 134.8 56.9 (163.7) 277.8 
Underlying earnings / (loss) per share cents 7.4 111.6 70.2 (59.2) 335.8 
Consolidated statement of financial position:
Non-current assets – property, plant and equipment $m 2,889 2,567 2,199 2,036 1,893 
Non-current assets – other $m 1,077 1,680 1,667 1,329 1,340 
Net current assets $m 177 244 504 443 501 
Net debt $m (421) (234) (375) (113) (303)
Equity shareholders’ funds $m 2,488 2,930 2,709 2,356 2,086 
Equity shareholders’ funds per share cents 1,225 1,448 1,339 1,220 1,273 
Cost of dividend paid $m 31 30 –– 186 
Dividends per share paid cents 15.0 15.0 –– 113.6 
Dividend in respect of the year per share cents – 15.0 15.0 – 56.3 
Consolidated statement of cash flows:
Cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities $m 263 630 80 (16) 706 
Free cash (outflow) / inflow $m (159) 210 (203) (271) 264 
Trading cash inflow / (outflow) per share cents 129.8 311.2 40.7 (9.2) 431.0 
Free cash (outflow) / inflow per share cents (78.5) 103.7 (103.2) (155.6) 161.2 
Footnotes:
1. Excludes equity accounted investments.                                                                                                            [ 153] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements
Operating statistics – 5 year Review
Units 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Tonnes mined Marikana Karee 
1
kt 4,384 4,438 4,115 3,950 3,962
Westerns 
1
kt 2,643 3,434 3,694 3,912 4,343
Middelkraal 
1
kt 1,762 1,904 1,918 1,385 884
Easterns 
1
kt 997 1,174 1,082 935 1,036
Underground kt 9,786 10,949 10,809 10,182 10,226
Opencast kt 443 601 329 234 1,300
Limpopo Underground kt – –– 87 523
Pandora attributable
2
Underground kt 185 168 166 142 124
Opencast kt – –– 156 275
Lonmin Platinum Underground kt 9,971 11,117 10,975 10,411 10,875
Opencast kt 443 601 329 389 1,575
Total kt 10,413 11,718 11,304 10,801 12,449
% tonnes mined from UG2 reef % 71.0 72.7 75.6 77.7 73.1
Tonnes milled 
3
Marikana Underground kt 9,936 10,896 10,655 10,148 10,206
Opencast kt 450 748 129 622 1,163
Limpopo Underground kt – –– 92 534
Pandora 
4
Underground kt 432 394 391 335 293
Opencast kt – –– 430 595
Ore purchases 
5
Opencast kt – –– – 30
Lonmin Platinum Underground kt 10,367 11,290 11,046 10,576 11,033
Opencast kt 450 748 129 1,053 1,788
Total kt 10,817 12,037 11,176 11,628 12,821
Milled head grade 
6
Lonmin Platinum Underground g/t 4.56 4.54 4.67 4.57 4.66
Opencast g/t 3.01 2.23 2.25 3.70 3.70
Total g/t 4.49 4.40 4.65 4.50 4.52
Concentrator Lonmin Platinum Underground % 86.1 85.4 84.8 81.0 81.7
recovery rate 
7
Opencast % 85.9 81.6 63.8 65.1 59.4
Total % 86.1 85.3 84.7 79.8 79.2
Metals in Marikana Platinum oz 646,393 694,149 668,620 612,910 660,429
concentrate 
8
Palladium oz 295,409 324,655 313,590 284,561 303,530
Gold oz 16,925 17,471 14,969 14,419 17,221
Rhodium oz 83,144 91,659 93,043 85,008 90,096
Ruthenium oz 127,269 144,369 144,913 130,080 139,158
Iridium oz 27,610 31,294 31,432 28,389 29,654
Total PGMs oz 1,196,750 1,303,597 1,266,566 1,155,367 1,240,088
Limpopo Platinum oz – –– 3,770 22,017
Palladium oz – –– 3,331 16,477
Gold oz – –– 243 1,265
Rhodium oz – –– 487 2,660
Ruthenium oz – –– 688 4,128
Iridium oz – –– 159 121
Total PGMs oz – –– 8,679 46,667
Pandora Platinum oz 30,625 25,241 25,756 46,421 48,743
Palladium oz 14,261 11,847 12,108 20,866 21,282
Gold oz 228 179 176 350 371
Rhodium oz 4,743 3,865 4,036 6,425 6,334
Ruthenium oz 7,135 6,070 6,228 9,338 9,379
Iridium oz 1,195 996 1,041 1,767 1,762
Total PGMs oz 58,188 48,199 49,345 85,168 87,872
Concentrate Ore purchases Platinum oz 2,802 –– – 937
Palladium oz 973 –– – 793
Gold oz 10 –– – 74
Rhodium oz 329 –– – 83
Ruthenium oz 404 –– – 107
Iridium oz 129 –– – 25
Total PGMs oz 4,647 –– – 2,019
Lonmin Platinum Platinum oz 679,821 719,390 694,376 663,101 732,125
Palladium oz 310,643 336,502 325,697 308,758 342,081
Gold oz 17,163 17,650 15,144 15,013 18,932
Rhodium oz 88,216 95,524 97,079 91,920 99,173
Ruthenium oz 134,808 150,439 151,141 140,106 152,772
Iridium oz 28,934 32,290 32,473 30,315 31,562
Total PGMs oz 1,259,585 1,351,796 1,315,911 1,249,214 1,376,645
Nickel 
9
MT 3,489 3,537 2,972 2,794 3,549
Copper 
9
MT 2,226 2,223 1,824 1,763 2,216 [ 154] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operating statistics – 5 year Review
Units 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Refined production Lonmin refined  Platinum oz 648,414 686,877 607,794 655,291 699,942
metal production Palladium oz 310,558 323,907 303,748 297,415 330,209
Gold oz 18,398 18,013 15,284 18,277 20,257
Rhodium oz 110,896 86,702 94,690 95,596 91,063
Ruthenium oz 153,394 164,374 147,854 146,506 158,424
Iridium oz 32,844 26,337 36,073 23,908 31,599
Total PGMs oz 1,274,503 1,306,210 1,205,443 1,236,992 1,331,493
Toll refined Platinum oz 38,958 44,396 77,571 2,025 –
metal production Palladium oz 21,043 49,119 15,274 941 –
Gold oz 729 2,879 1,100 58 –
Rhodium oz 4,717 14,402 5,411 1,532 –
Ruthenium oz 7,907 24,408 8,278 2,647 –
Iridium oz 1,944 5,249 1,695 513 –
Total PGMs oz 75,299 140,453 109,328 7,717 –
Total refined PGMs Platinum oz 687,372 731,273 685,365 657,317 699,942
Palladium oz 331,601 373,026 319,022 298,356 330,209
Gold oz 19,128 20,892 16,383 18,335 20,257
Rhodium oz 115,613 101,103 100,100 97,128 91,063
Ruthenium oz 161,300 188,782 156,133 149,153 158,424
Iridium oz 34,788 31,586 37,768 24,420 31,599
Total PGMs oz 1,349,802 1,446,662 1,314,772 1,244,709 1,331,493
Base metals Nickel 
10
MT 3,786 4,188 3,475 3,244 3,483
Copper
10
MT 2,153 2,454 2,091 1,988 2,009
Sales Refined metal sales Platinum oz 701,831 720,783 681,424 659,703 706,492
Palladium oz 335,849 372,284 315,515 305,332 329,460
Gold oz 19,273 19,417 16,289 18,910 20,151
Rhodium oz 119,054 102,653 98,657 94,160 93,337
Ruthenium oz 170,751 187,189 153,865 146,009 158,477
Iridium oz 37,187 33,603 34,790 23,522 32,140
Total PGMs oz 1,383,945 1,435,929 1,300,540 1,247,636 1,340,057
Concentrate Platinum oz – – 24,850 23,253 20,425
and other
11
Palladium oz – –– (2,848) 11,888
Gold oz – –– 13 117
Rhodium oz – –– 175 889
Ruthenium oz – –– 303 26,205
Iridium oz – –– 387 1,789
Total PGMs oz – – 24,850 21,282 61,313
Lonmin Platinum Platinum oz 701,831 720,783 706,274 682,955 726,918
Palladium oz 335,849 372,284 315,515 302,485 341,348
Gold oz 19,273 19,417 16,289 18,922 20,268
Rhodium oz 119,054 102,653 98,657 94,335 94,227
Ruthenium oz 170,751 187,189 153,865 146,312 184,682
Iridium oz 37,187 33,603 34,790 23,909 33,929
Total PGMs oz 1,383,945 1,435,929 1,325,390 1,268,918 1,401,371
Nickel 
10
MT 3,843 4,180 3,033 3,318 3,338
Copper 
10
MT 2,197 2,448 2,169 2,045 1,978
Chrome 
10
MT 1,209,643 730,278 684,654 708,753 796,100
Shareholder Information [ 155] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements
Operating statistics – 5 year Review
Units 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Average prices Platinum $/oz 1,517 1,769 1,525 1,086 1,655
Palladium $/oz 630 752 448 224 372
Gold $/oz 1,597 1,405 1,153 912 867
Rhodium $/oz 1,274 2,145 2,308 1,571 7,614
Ruthenium $/oz 103 168 173 97 340
Iridium $/oz 1,042 938 520 388 414
Basket price of PGMs 
12
$/oz 1,095 1,299 1,139 786 1,529
Full Basket price of PGMs 
13
$/oz 1,163 1,389 1,195 836 1,593
Basket price of PGMs 
12
R/oz 8,807 9,109 8,375 6,873 11,543
Full Basket price of PGMs 
13
R/oz 9,304 9,716 8,790 7,316 11,983
Nickel 
10
$/MT 14,330 21,009 18,569 15,006 22,556
Copper 
10
$/MT 7,201 8,612 6,623 6,291 7,212
Chrome 
10
$/MT 20 27 52 1
Footnotes: 
1 Karee includes the shafts K3, 1B, 4B and K4. Westerns comprises Rowland, Newman and ore purchases from W1. Middelkraal represents Hossy and
Saffy. Easterns includes E1, E2 and E3.
2 Pandora attributable tonnes mined includes Lonmin’s share (42.5%) of the total tonnes mined on the Pandora joint venture.
3 Tonnes milled excludes slag milling.
4 Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore produced by the Pandora joint venture for onward processing which is included in downstream operating statistics.
5 Tonnes milled and derived metal in concentrate from third–party ore purchases.
6 Milled head grade is the grammes per tonne (5PGE + Au) value contained in the tonnes milled and fed into the concentrator from the mines (excluding
slag milled).
7 Recovery rate in the concentrators is the total content produced divided by the total content milled (excluding slag).
8 Metals in concentrate includes slag and has been calculated using industry standard downstream processing losses.
9 Corresponds to contained base metals in concentrate.
10 Nickel is produced and sold as nickel sulphate crystals or solution and the volumes shown correspond to contained metal. Copper is produced as
refined product but typically at the LME grade C. Chrome is produced in the form of chromite concentrate and volumes shown are in the form of
chromite.
11 Concentrate and other sales have been adjusted to a saleable ounce basis using industry standard recovery rates.
12 Basket price of PGMs is based on the revenue generated in Rand and Dollar from the actual PGMs (5PGE + Au) sold in the period based on the
appropriate Rand / Dollar exchange rate applicable for each sales transaction.
13 As per note 12 but including revenue from base metals. [ 156] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operating statistics – 5 year Review
Units 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Capital expenditure 
1
Rm 3,296 2,907 1,989 2,106 2,816
$m 408 410 267 234 378
Cost per PGM ounce sold 
2
Group:
Mining – Marikana R/oz 5,963 5,292 4,575 4,468 3,880
Mining – Limpopo R/oz –– – 7,404 6,363
Mining (weighted average) R/oz 5,963 5,292 4,575 4,490 3,979
Concentrating – Marikana R/oz 1,073 960 862 808 724
Concentrating – Limpopo R/oz –– – 1,820 1,743
Concentrating (weighted average) R/oz 1,073 960 862 815 761
Process division R/oz 872 830 809 693 686
Shared business services R/oz 600 452 527 632 845
C1 cost per PGM ounce produced R/oz 8,507 7,534 6,773 6,630 6,271
Stock movement R/oz (192) (272) (358) 112 (863)
C1 cost per PGM ounce sold before base metal credits R/oz 8,315 7,262 6,415 6,742 5,408
Base metal credits R/oz (497) (606) (415) (440) (482)
C1 cost per PGM ounce sold after base metal credits R/oz 7,817 6,656 6,000 6,302 4,926
Amortisation R/oz 708 617 571 516 420
C2 cost per PGM ounce sold R/oz 8,525 7,273 6,571 6,818 5,346
Pandora mining cost:
C1 Pandora mining cost (in joint venture) R/oz 5,229 5,020 4,727 3,371 3,223
Pandora JV cost / ounce to Lonmin (adjusting Lonmin share of profit) R/oz 7,644 7,228 7,253 5,956 6,200
Exchange rates
Average rate for period 
3
R/$ 8.05 6.95 7.45 9.00 7.45
£/$ 0.63 0.62 0.64 0.64 0.51
Closing rate R/$ 8.30 8.05 6.92 7.47 8.27
£/$ 0.62 0.64 0.64 0.62 0.56
Footnotes:
1 Capital expenditure is the aggregate of the purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (includes capital accruals and excludes
capitalised interest).
2 It should be noted that with the restructuring of the business in 2011, 2010 and 2009 the cost allocation between business units has been changed and,
therefore, whilst the total is on a like-for-like basis, individual line items are not totally comparable.
3 Exchange rates are calculated using the market average daily closing rate over the course of the period.
Shareholder Information [ 157] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements
Reserves & Resources
• Revisions to the South African Mineral Resource estimates were confined to the Marikana, Limpopo and Pandora properties.
The Akanani and Loskop Mineral Resources were unchanged during 2012.
• The Mineral Resources at Marikana (excluding tailings) decreased by 0.5 Moz of 3PGE+Au in 2012. Although mining
depletion accounted for significantly more than this amount, it was mostly offset by a slightly lower assessment of
geological losses applied to the 2012 Mineral Resource models. Exploration drilling at Marikana in 2012 was focused on
infill drilling that allows for a more accurate assessment of the Mineral Resource, rather than Mineral Resource extension. 
A re-assessment of the structure of the Marikana Mineral Resource resulted in the re-classification of an area of high
geological complexity from Indicated Resources to Inferred Resources.
• A comprehensive assessment of one of the UG2 tailings dams on the Marikana property has allowed for declaration of a
Mineral Resource of 0.8 Moz of 3PGE+Au.
• A major revision of the Pandora Mineral Resource was completed following a large drilling programme conducted in 2011
and a number of smaller drilling programmes conducted since 2008. The Mineral Resource increased by 30%, with the
addition of 2.3 Moz of 3PGE+Au, and a large portion of the Inferred Mineral Resource was upgraded to Indicated
Resources.
• The Zebediela portion of the Inferred Mineral Resources at Limpopo was removed, accounting for a reduction of 2.8 Moz
of 3PGE+Au, due to surrendering of that portion of the prospecting right area.
• No revisions were made to the Mineral Resources in Sudbury and Kenya during 2012.
• The following revisions to the Marikana Mineral Reserve were made in 2012, there being no changes to the Limpopo Reserves:
• The overall UG2 and Merensky Reef Mineral Reserves decreased by 2.1 Moz of 3PGE+Au, of which 1.0 Moz is attributed
to mining depletion. An area of Probable Mineral Reserve in the vicinity of the Elandsdrift Fault Zone was removed as the
Mineral Resource was downgraded to Inferred Resource as a result of geological structural complexity. Together with a 
re-assessment of mining of Merensky Reef affected by Iron Rich Ultramafic Pegmatite (IRUP) this reduced the Mineral
Reserve by 2.0 Moz of 3PGE+Au. A number of additional areas were brought into the life-of-mine plan, which together
with a re-assessment of certain modifying factors, increased the Mineral Reserve by 0.9 Moz.
• The 3PGE+Au grade for the combined Proved and Probable Mineral Reserves decreased by 1% (0.03 g/t), which is due to
slight revisions in modifying factors.
A summary of the changes to Lonmin’s Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves are shown in the following tables and should be
read in conjunction with the Key Assumptions section of this report. Detailed breakdowns of these Mineral Resources and Mineral
Reserves into their respective confidence categories can be found in the sections specific to the individual areas.
PGE Mineral Resources (Total Measured, Indicated & Inferred)
1,4
30-Sep-2012 30-Sep-2011
Mt
5
3PGE+Au Pt Mt
5
3PGE+Au Pt
Area g/t Moz Moz g/t Moz Moz
Marikana 732.7 4.83 113.9 68.5 730.7 4.87 114.4 68.4
Limpopo
2
128.8 4.07 16.8 8.4 144.7 4.23 19.7 10.0
Limpopo Baobab shaft 46.1 3.91 5.8 3.0 46.1 3.91 5.8 3.0
Akanani 216.0 3.84 26.7 10.9 216.0 3.84 26.7 10.9
Pandora JV 66.2 4.65 9.9 6.0 54.8 4.29 7.6 4.6
Loskop JV
3
10.1 4.04 1.3 0.8 10.1 4.04 1.3 0.8
Sudbury PGM JV
3
0.4 6.30 0.07 0.04 0.4 6.30 0.07 0.04
Tailings Dam
3
22.5 1.10 0.80 0.48 ––– –
Total Resource 1,222.7 4.46 175.2 98.1 1,202.6 4.54 175.4 97.6
Notes
1) All figures are reported on a Lonmin Plc attributable basis, the relative proportions of ownership per project being shown in the Key Assumptions section
of this report.
2) Limpopo
2
excludes Baobab shaft. In 2011, Limpopo included the Mineral Resources for Zebedelia.
3) Loskop and Sudbury PGM JV exclude Rh, due to insufficient assays, and therefore 2PGE+Au are reported. Tailings Dam exclude Au, due to assay
values below laboratory detection limit, and therefore are reported as 3PGE.
4) Resources are reported inclusive of Reserves.
5) Quantities and grades have been rounded to one or two decimal places, therefore minor computational errors may occur. [ 158] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
PGE Mineral Reserves (Total Proved & Probable)
1
30-Sep-2012 30-Sep-2011
Mt
3
3PGE+Au Pt Mt
3
3PGE+Au Pt
Area g/t Moz Moz g/t Moz Moz
Marikana 269.8 4.06 35.2 21.3 284.8 4.09 37.4 22.6
Limpopo
2
42.4 3.20 4.4 2.2 42.4 3.20 4.4 2.2
Limpopo Baobab shaft 9.4 3.16 1.0 0.5 9.4 3.16 1.0 0.5
Pandora JV 6.3 4.02 0.8 0.5 5.1 4.14 0.7 0.4
Total Reserve 327.9 3.92 41.3 24.4 341.6 3.95 43.4 25.7
Notes
1) All figures are reported on a Lonmin Plc attributable basis, the relative proportions of ownership per project being shown in the Key Assumptions section
of this report.
2) Limpopo excludes Baobab shaft.
3) Quantities have been rounded to one decimal place and grades have been rounded to two decimal places, therefore minor computational errors may
occur.
Key assumptions pertaining to the 2012 Lonmin Mineral Resource and Reserve Statement
• Mineral Resources are reported inclusive of Mineral Reserves. Resources that are converted to Reserves are also included in
the Mineral Resource statement. 
• All Resources and Reserves quoted reflect Lonmin’s attributable portion only. There have been no changes in the percentage
attributable to Lonmin during the year. The following percentages were applied to the total Mineral Resource and Reserve for
each property:
Limpopo –
Limpopo – Baobab & Sudbury
Marikana Dwaalkop JV Doornvlei Akanani Pandora JV Loskop JV PGM JV
Lonmin Attributable 82% 41% 82% 74% 34.85% 41% 50%
• Incwala Resources, Lonmin’s BEE partner, owns 18% of both Western Platinum Limited and Eastern Platinum Limited,
and 26% of Akanani. Lonmin’s 23.56% holding in the share capital of Incwala does not factor in the calculations of its
attributable interest.
• Limpopo includes Dwaalkop JV, which is a joint venture between Mvelaphanda Resources (50%) and Western Platinum
(50%) that is managed by Lonmin.
• Eastern Platinum Limited has an attributable interest of 42.5% in the Pandora Joint Venture together with Anglo Platinum
(42.5%), Mvelaphanda Resources (7.5%) and the Bapo Ba-Mogale Mining Company (7.5%).
• Western Platinum Limited has an attributable interest of 50% in the Loskop Joint Venture together with Boynton
Investments (50%).
• Lonmin’s share of the Sudbury PGM JV is currently a nominal 50%, of the product from any PGE deposit developed on the
participating properties. The agreement is that Lonmin will be allocated its pro-rata share in PGE’s and Vale will be
allocated its pro-rata share in Nickel, Copper, Cobalt, Gold and Silver. The exchange of metals will be governed by
prevailing metal prices at the time of the refined metal production.
• Lonmin has a 49% attributable portion of the Bumbo Mineral Resource in terms of The West Kenya earn-in and Joint
Venture Agreement between Aviva Corporation Limited and AfriOre International (Barbados) Limited a wholly owned
subsidiary of Lonmin Plc.
• Where grades are reported as 3PGE+Au these are a summation of the Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium and Gold grades.
Modelling of available assay information, obtained from drillhole core, indicates that the proportion of 3PGE+Au contained in
5PGE+Au, which includes Ruthenium and Iridium, is approximately as follows:
UG2 Merensky Platreef
Marikana 0.81 0.92 –
Marikana Tailings 0.78 ––
Limpopo 0.86 0.93 –
Akanani –– 0.95
Pandora 0.81 ––
• Where Nickel (Ni) and Copper (Cu) grade estimates are derived from sufficient reliable information for the various Mineral
Resources, they are reported as average grades in percent. These grades represent acid soluble proportions. Acid soluble
percentages of Ni and Cu are closely correlated to the metals present as sulphide minerals.
• Mineral Resources are reported as “in-situ” tonnes and grade and allow for geological losses such as faults, dykes, potholes
and IRUP .
• Mineral Resources are estimated using a minimum true width of at least 90 cm and therefore may include some diluting material.
Reserves & Resources
Shareholder Information [ 159] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements
Key assumptions pertaining to the 2012 Lonmin Mineral Resource and Reserve Statement (continued)
• Proved and Probable Mineral Reserves are reported as tonnes and grade expected to be delivered to the mill, are inclusive of
diluting materials and allow for losses that may occur when the material is mined.
• A Mineral Resource estimate of the Eastern Platinum No 1 tailings dam has been included in the Mineral Resources. The
remaining tailing dams will be considered as and when the appropriate assessments take place.
• For economic studies and the determination of pay limits, consideration was made of both short and long-term revenue drivers.
The following long-term global assumptions were used: 
• Precious Metals (per Troy Ounce): Pt USD1,750, Pd USD870, Rh USD1,500, Ru USD205, Ir USD610, Au USD1,500.
• Base Metals (per metric tonne): Ni USD19,000, Cu USD6,500.
• Average exchange rate of USD1 to ZAR8.5.
• Dilutions are quoted as waste tonnes / (waste + ore tonnes) in percent.
• Bumbo Mineral Resources are reported using a cut-off grade of 0.7% copper equivalent.
• The copper equivalent formula for Bumbo was based upon commodity prices at the close of the market on 25th July 2011,
namely:
• Copper: USD9,633 / tonne ($Cu)
• Zinc: USD2,441 / tonne ($Zn)
• Gold: USD1,614 / ounce ($Au)
• Silver: USD40 / ounce ($Ag)
• The copper equivalent (CuEq) is as follows:
CuEq (%) = Cu% + (Zn%*($Zn/100)/($Cu/100)) + (Au g/t*($Au/31.1034768)/($Cu/100)) +(Ag
g/t*($Ag/31.1034768)/($Cu/100))
• Unless otherwise stated, the Lonmin Mineral Resources and Reserves estimates were prepared or supervised by various
persons employed by Lonmin.
Reserves & Resources [ 160] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Shareholder Information
Lonmin’s shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are also traded
in an OTC market in the USA.
UK share register information
All holdings of the Company’s shares are maintained on the Company’s UK share register, with the exception of those held on the South
African branch register. The register is administered by Equiniti Registrars (formerly known as Lloyds TSB Registrars).
You can access information about your shareholding including balance movements and dividend payments on Shareview, an electronic
communications service provided by Equiniti. It also allows you to change your registered address details, set up a dividend mandate,
vote at general meetings and register to receive Company communications electronically.
To register for this free service, visit www.shareview.co.uk and follow the simple instructions. You will need your shareholder reference
number, which can be found on your share certificate, dividend tax voucher or proxy card.
South African branch register information
The South African branch register is administered by Link Market Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd.
Contact details for both the UK and South African registrars can be found in Corporate Information on page 162. 
Dividends
No dividends will have been recommended or declared for the year ended 30 September 2012.
Further information for UK resident, ordinarily resident and domiciled individual shareholders
The following statements do not constitute tax advice and are intended as a general guide only. 
UK Capital Gains Tax
For UK Capital Gains Tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May 1998, who
held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two companies. Based
on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would be 80.498% for Lonmin Plc
and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
The Company’s capital reduction was completed on 22 February 2002. For the purposes of assessing any liability to capital gains tax, 
UK shareholders should apportion 13.33% of the base cost of their original shareholding to the capital reduction and the balance to their
new holding of ordinary shares of $1 each.
The base cost of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares, for shareholders who held shares prior to that date, at 31 March 1982 was 38.9 pence
(as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation issues), 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the Company’s shares on 24 April 1998,
125.3 pence as adjusted for the de-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998, 266.1 pence as adjusted for shareholders who took up
their full entitlement of ordinary shares in the Rights Issue in June 2009 and 185 pence as adjusted for shareholders who took up their full
entitlement of ordinary shares in the Rights Issue in November 2012, assuming in each case that shares have been held continuously by
the relevant shareholder throughout the period. The precise tax analysis for each shareholder may depend on the shareholder's own
position, for example, shareholders who did not take up their full entitlement in the Rights Issues but who instead sold some or all of their
rights may be required to adjust their base cost in their Lonmin Plc ordinary shares and the base costs provided above are indicative only.
Shareholders should seek independent tax advice as to their liability for capital gains tax in the event that they sell their Lonmin Plc
ordinary shares.
Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Account (ISAs)
Investec Wealth & Investment Limited offers the Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA for investment in Lonmin Plc shares.
UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin Corporate ISA up to a maximum of £11,280 for the current tax year 2012/13
(the maximum for the forthcoming tax year 2013/14 has yet to be announced by HMRC) in cash to purchase Lonmin Plc shares or by
direct transfer of eligible employee shares within 90 days of the release from an eligible Sharesave Scheme up to a maximum value of
£11,280 for the current tax year 2012/13 and a maximum value yet to be announced by HMRC for the forthcoming tax year 2013/14.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on page 162. Investec Wealth & Investment Limited is regulated by the FSA. This
is not a recommendation that shareholders should subscribe to the ISA. The advantages of holding shares in an ISA vary according to
individual circumstances and shareholders who are in any doubt should consult their financial adviser. 
ShareGift
Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation
(registered charity number 1052686). Those shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of which make them
uneconomic to sell, can donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities. Further
information about ShareGift can be obtained from their website at www.ShareGift.org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded
from the Company’s website.
Shareholder Information [ 161] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements
Warning to shareholders
A survey by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) has reported that an increasing number of shareholders of UK listed
companies are being targeted by individuals purporting to be legitimate brokers or financial advisors.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports
on the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
• Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and make a record of any other information they
give you, e.g. telephone number, address, etc.
• Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved. You can check at www.fsa.gov.uk/register.
• The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK
investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to
date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with any unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services
Compensation Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing an on-line form at
www.fsa.gov.uk/doing/regulated/law/alerts/form.shtml or, if you do not have access to the internet, on 0845 606 1234.
• Inform the registrars on the relevant telephone numbers listed on the following page. They are not able to investigate
such incidents themselves but will record the details and pass them on to the FSA. [ 162] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Shareholder Information
Corporate Information
Lonmin Plc
Registered in England and Wales
Company number 103002
Registered Office
Lonmin Plc
4 Grosvenor Place
London
SW1X 7YL
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7201 6000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7201 6100
E-mail: contact@lonmin.com
Website: www.lonmin.com
Operational Headquarters
Physical address:
34 Melrose Boulevard
1st Floor
Building 13
Melrose North 
Melrose Arch
2196
South Africa
Postal address:
PO Box 98811
Sloane Park
2152
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)11 218 8300
Fax: +27 (0)11 218 8310
E-mail: contact@lonmin.com
Website: www.lonmin.com
Company Secretary
Rob Bellhouse BSc FCIS
Head of Investor Relations
Tanya Chikanza
    
External Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7311 1000
Joint Financial Advisers
Greenhill & Co. International LLP
Lansdowne House
57 Berkeley Square
London
W1J 6ER
London
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7198 7400
Fax: +44 (0)20 7198 7500
Joint Stockbrokers and 
Financial Advisers
United Kingdom:
J.P . Morgan Securities plc
25 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5JP
Tel: +44 (0)20 7742 1000
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5LB
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7986 4000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7986 2266
South Africa:
J.P . Morgan Equities Limited
1 Fricker Road
Illovo
Johannesburg 2196
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)11 507 0430
Fax: +27 (0)11 507 0503
    
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
UK Callers:
Tel: +44 (0)871 384 2052
1
Fax: +44 (0)871 384 2100
International Callers:
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 0230
Fax: +44 (0)1903 698403
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
Link Market Services South Africa 
(Pty) Ltd
Physical address:
13th Floor
Rennie House
19 Ameshoff Street
2001 Braamfontein 
South Africa
Postal address:
PO Box 4844
Johannesburg 2000
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)11 713 0800
Fax: +27 (0)866 742450
Website: www.linkmarketservices.co.za
ADR Depository
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
PO Box 358016
Pittsburgh
PA 15252-8016
US Callers: 
Tel: +1 888 269 2377 (toll free)
International Callers: 
Tel: +1 201 680 6825
E-mail: shrrelations@bnymellon.com
Website: www.adrbnymellon.com
ISA Provider
Investec Wealth & Investment Limited
Corporate ISA Department
The Plaza
100 Old Hall Street
Liverpool
L3 9AB
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)151 237 2160
Fax: +44 (0)151 255 1742
1 Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline. Other providers’ costs may vary. Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. [ 163] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 05 / Shareholder Information 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements
Acronyms and Abbreviations
ACT Advanced Corporation Tax
ADRs American Depository Receipts
AEL Atmospheric Emissions Licence
Ag Silver
AGM Annual General Meeting
AMCU Association of Mineworkers and
     Construction Union
Amended Facilities         The amended terms of the Group’s
existing debt facilities (detailed in note 1 to
the financial statements) which will take
effect subject to receipt of the proceeds
of the Proposed Rights Issue
APB’s Auditing Practices Board’s
ART Anti-retroviral treatment
ASAP Annual Shareholder Award Plan
Au Gold
BEE Black Economic Empowerment
BMR Base metal refinery
BSC Balanced Scorecard
CCMA Commission for Conciliation, Mediation
     and Aribitration
CEO Chief Executive Officer
CGUs Cash generating units
CO
2
Carbon dioxide
CO
2
-e Carbon dioxide equivalent
Code                              The UK Corporate Governance Code
published by the FRC in June 2010
CODM Chief Operating decision maker
Cu Copper
CuEq Copper equivalent
DABP Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
DABP MA Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Matched
     Awards
DBE Department of Basic Education
DMR Department of Mineral Resources
DTR The Disclosure Rules and Transparency
Rules issued by the FSA
EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxation
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax,
     Depreciation and Amortisation
EPL Eastern Platinum Limited
ESOS Executive Share Option Schemes
ETFs Exchange Traded Funds
EU European Union
EVP Executive Vice President
Exco Executive Committee
FRC Financial Reporting Council
FRCP Fatal risk control protocols
FSA Financial Services Authority
GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles
GHG Greenhouse gases
GJ Gigajoules
GLC Greater Lonmin Community
g/t Grammes per tonne
HDSAs Historically Disadvantaged South Africans
HIV / AIDS Human immuno-deficiency virus / acquired
     immune deficiency syndrome
HMRC Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs
ICAM Incident Cause Analysis Methodology
ICMM International Council on Mining and
     Metals
IDPs Individual Development Plans
IFRSs International Financial Reporting
Standards
Incwala Incwala Resources (Pty) Limited
IP  Incwala Platinum (Pty) Limited
Ir   Iridium
IRUP Iron Rich Ultramafic Pegmatite
ISA Individual Savings Account
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
ISO International Standards Organisation
JSE Johannesburg Stock Exchange
JV Joint Venture
Koz Thousand ounces
KPIs Key Performance Indicators
Kt Thousand tonnes
LBITDA Loss Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation 
     and Amortisation
LED Local economic development
LPS Loss per share
LSE London Stock Exchange
LTI Lost time injury
LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan
M
3
Cubic metres
MHDC Marikana Housing Development
Corporation
MISS Management induced safety stoppages
Moz Million ounces
MWh Megawatts per hour
N.A Not Applicable
NED Non-executive Director
Ni Nickel
NIHL Noise-induced hearing loss
NUM National Union of Mineworkers
OTC Over-the-counter
OVCs Orphaned and vulnerable children
Oz Ounce
Pd Palladium
PGE Platinum Group Elements
PGMs Platinum Group Metals
PMR Precious metal refinery
Proposed Rights Issue   The proposed rights issue detailed in
section 11.3 of the Directors’ Report
Pt Platinum
PwC PricewaterhouseCoopers Ltd
R  South African Rand
Rh Rhodium
RTSR Relative Total Shareholder Return
SAYE Save as you earn
Shanduka Shanduka Group (Proprietary) Limited
SLP Social Labour Plan
SO
2
Sulphur dioxide
S&P Stay & Prosper Plan
TCTC Total Cost to Company
TERP Theoretical ex-rights price
TJ Terajoules
UK United Kingdom
UASA UASA – The Union
VCT Voluntary counselling and testing
VFL Visible felt leadership
WPL Western Platinum Limited
ZAR South African Rand
Zn Zinc
$   Dollar
£   Great British Pound [ 164] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The paper used in this report is produced using virgin wood fibre from well managed forests in Brazil,
Sweden and Germany with FSC
®
certification. All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) and 
manufactured at a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 and EMAS certificates for environmental
management. The use of the FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed
forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Fulmar Colour is FSC certified, PEFC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is committed 
to all round excellence and improving environmental performance is an important part of this strategy. 
We aim to reduce at source the effect our operations have on the environment, and are committed 
to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry 
standards.
Fulmar Colour is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Portrait photography by Kevin Rudham
www.krphotography.co.za
Printed by Fulmar Colour
Designed and produced by MAGEE
www.magee.co.uk
Financial Calendar
31 January 2013 AGM and Q1 Production Report
13 May 2013 Interim Results including Q2 Production Report
25 July 2013 Q3 Production Report
11 November 2013 Final Results including Q4 Production Report
Please note that the Production Report for Q1 and Q3 incorporate the Company’s Interim Management 
Statements for the respective half year.
Sixteen-Eight Memorial Fund
Following the tragic events around our mine, Lonmin has committed, through the Sixteen-Eight Memorial Fund, to funding the
education of all the children of the employees who lost their lives. This funding will cover education costs from primary school
to university. The fund is currently at R5 million and is open to further donations from the public.
This account is governed by the Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr law firm and is held with:
Nedbank 135 Rivonia Road Sandown Sandton 
Account number: 1979312176 
Branch number: 197905
When making a contribution please use the reference number: 21941151
Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
Lonmin Charter
Our Mission
To grow and build our portfolio
of high quality assets.
To deliver the requirements
of the South African broad-
based socio-economic Mining
Charter and we welcome the
opportunity to transform our
business.
To build a value-based
culture, which is founded
on safe work, continuous im-
provement, common standards
and procedures, community 
involvement and one that 
rewards employees for high
performance.
We are successful
when
Our employees live and work
safely and experience the 
personal satisfaction that
comes with high performance
and recognition.
Our shareholders are realising
a superior total return on their
investment and support our
corporate sustainability values.
The communities in which we
operate value our relationships.
We are meeting our commit-
ments to all business partners
and our suppliers, contractors,
partners and customers 
support our Charter.
Our Values
Zero Harm
We are committed to zero
harm to people and the 
environment.
Integrity, Honesty & Trust
We are committed ethical 
people who do what we say
we will do.
Transparency
Open, honest communication
and free sharing of information.
Respect For Each Other
Embracing our diversity 
enriched by openness, 
sharing, trust, teamwork
and involvement.
High Performance
Stretching our individual and
team capabilities to achieve 
innovative and superior
outcomes.
Employee Self-Worth
To enhance the quality of life
for our employees and their
families and promote self 
esteem.
We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals. We create value by
the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals.
We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct 
business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
May 2009
Ian Farmer
Chief Executive Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2012
www.lonmin.com
Lonmin Plc
Registered in England, Company Number 103002
Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
Annual Report and Accounts
For the year ended 30 September 2012
Lonmin Plc
2012
