 Aligned with the Growth of Africa
Lonrho Plc
Annual Report & Accounts
for the 15 month period to 31 December 2011
Lonrho Plc Annual Report & Accounts for the 15 month period to 31 December 2011 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
Lonrho is aligned 
with the developing 
opportunities across 
Africa where it operates 
five strategic divisions 
in eighteen countries.
Business Review
01 Highlights
02 Strength of the African Marketplace
04 Business Model and Strategy
06 Summary of Lonrho divisions
08 Key Performance Indicators
10 Principal risks and uncertainties
16 Chairman’s Statement
18 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
20 Operating Review
32 Financial Review
38 Corporate Responsibility
Governance
42 Board of Directors
44 Corporate Governance Statement
52 Directors’ Remuneration Report
58 Report of the Directors
Financial Statements
63 Independent Auditors’ Report to 
the Members of Lonrho Plc
64 Consolidated income statement
65 Consolidated and Company 
statements of comprehensive 
income
66 Consolidated and Company 
statements of changes in equity
67 Consolidated and Company 
statements of ﬁnancial position 
68 Consolidated and Company 
statements of cash ﬂows 
69 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
Investor Information
113 Shareholder Information
115 Corporate Information
The purpose of the annual report is to provide information to the shareholders of Lonrho Plc. The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers do not 
accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is 
expressly disclaimed. The annual report contains certain forward–looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and ﬁnancial condition of the 
Company. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ materially from those 
anticipated and no reliance should be placed on them. The forward-looking statements reﬂect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of 
this annual report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this annual report should be construed as 
a proﬁt forecast. 200m
£
12 month
period
15
month
period
150m
100m
50m
2008
2009
2010
2011
0
8m
£
4m
6m
2m
-2m
0
2008
2009
2010
2011
-4m
12 month
period
15
month
period
01 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Highlights
Financial Highlights











Operational Highlights
Completion of acquisitions













Commencement of new businesses









Development of continuing operations













18
countries
£ 18 8 . 4m
Revenue
up £81.0m*
£6.8m
Net Operating Profit**
up £6.8m
5
divisions Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
02 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Strength of the African 
Marketplace
By 2020 estimated consumer 
spending in Africa will 
be US$1.6 trillion
US$ 1. 6tr
Lonrho recognises the strength of the African 
marketplace, driven by a population of one 
billion people with a growing disposable income, 
and the growing strategic importance of Africa 
to both the local and global economies.
Agriculture
60% of the world’s arable land 
is in Africa, of which only 10% 
is productive
Oil & Gas
It is estimated that a 
significant percentage of 
the World’s oil reserves are 
in Africa
Minerals
Africa is a primary source of 
the minerals required to meet 
global demand 03 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
7 out of10
Out of the top 10 fastest 
growing economies in the 
world, 7 are in Africa
 crops valued at 
US$250 billion in 2011 

 GDP will grow 5.8% in 2012
 733 million hectares of arable land


 4.5% of global Foreign Direct 
Investment

 forecast 1.1 billion 
(42%)
 735 million mobile phone 
subscribers

 21 countries 
in Sub-Saharan Africa are now full  
or hybrid democracies
 
reduced their external debt levels from 63%  
of GDP to just 22% Strategic Objective
To deliver shareholder
value and high returns
by being aligned with
African growth
Quality, experienced
management teams with
 local knowledge
The Lonrho brand
business ethics
and responsible 
First world practices
market Plc
London main
Mitigation of emerging
market risk
Exclusively focused
on African businesses
Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
04 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Business Model 
and Strategy
January 2011
Lonrho acquires the AFEX 
Group of companies 
which provide support 
services for South Sudan 
and East Africa.
January 2011
Fly540’s strategic hub 
in Angola commences 
operations.
Opportunity
Lonrho has a unique 
understanding of the 
drivers of the African 
economy.
Strategy
The Group’s strategy is 
to develop a group of 
complementary 
businesses across 
Sub-Saharan Africa 
which operate to the 
highest international 
standards and are 
market leaders in their 
sectors. These Group 
companies are aligned 
with the rapid 
economic growth 
being driven by the 
Agriculture, Oil & 
Gas and Minerals 
sectors in Africa and 
the growing 
significance of these 
sectors to the global 
economy.
African 
consumer
boom
Meeting  
global  
demand

 & ne 05 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
April 2011
Lonrho moves from AIM 
up to a premium listing 
on the main market of the 
London Stock Exchange.
Strategic drivers
Exclusively focused on African 
businesses
















The Lonrho brand










Quality, experienced management 
teams with local knowledge










 Mitigation of emerging market risk












First world practices and responsible 
business ethics









London main market Plc











The Group focuses on providing the logistics and infrastructure for the 
agriculture, oil & gas and mineral sectors which are the main economic drivers 
of the African economy. The Group operates in an economic environment that 
is experiencing significant expansion. The Directors believe that the Group has 
the resources and capabilities to deliver growth through supplying the required 
additional services and infrastructure to meet the increase in demand. Revenue split
by division
 50.2%  Agribusiness
 11.6%  Infrastructure
 18.8%  Transportation
 6.1%  Hotels
 13.3%  Support Services
Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
06 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Summary of  
Lonrho divisions
Lonrho operates in five industry 
sectors: Agribusiness, Infrastructure, 
Transportation, Hotels and Support 
Services. These important industries 
provide some of the building blocks 
and foundations required for successful 
economic growth. Lonrho now has a 
range of tangible operational businesses 
that promote job creation, assist poverty 
reduction, and are an integral part of 
African economic development.
Agribusiness








Infrastructure







Transportation




Hotels






Support Services










May 2011
Lonrho transfers its 
secondary listing on the JSE 
from the Venture Capital 
Market to the AltX Market. 07 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Operating companies 





£94.5m
Revenue
£35.0m

Operating companies 


£21 .8m
Revenue
£0.7 m

Operating companies 




£35.5m
Revenue
£9.9m

Operating companies 




£11 .5m
Revenue
£3.3m

Operating companies 


 £25.1m
Revenue
£0.2m


May 2011
LonAgro Angola commences trading 
following the completion of the John 
Deere distribution centre close to 
Luanda, which was formally opened 
by the Minister of Agriculture. 200
£m Oct-Dec
Year to Sept
180
160
140
FY08
FY07
FY09
FY10
FP11
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
100
£m 2010
2011
80
Transportation
Agribusiness
Infrastructure
Support Services
Hotels
0
20
40
60
80
%2010
2011
60
0
20
40
Transportation
Agribusiness
Infrastructure
Support Services
Hotels
Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
08 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Key Performance 
Indicators
Lonrho has grown consistently since 2006 
and operates across various markets, each 
with their own key drivers to success. 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), which 
are an important management tool, are 
reviewed weekly. By focusing on the key 
drivers in each business, management 
are able to maintain the best possible 
understanding of underlying business 
performance across the Group.
KPIs, which are evaluated by management, 
are both financial and non-financial. 
Due to the breadth of businesses which 
operate in the Group, few operational 
KPIs are relevant at a Group level.
From 2012 the Group will be putting more 
emphasis on return on equity as a key 
KPI as the operating businesses mature.
Lonrho Group


 Revenue growth








Adjusted like-for-like* 
revenue growth 
(12 months to 
31 December)








 Adjusted like-for-like* 
gross margin (12 months 
to 31 December) 















June 2011
Lonrho acquires 51% of seafood 
wholesaler Fish On Line to 
expand the capabilities within 
Lonrho’s seafood business. Dec-11
Oct-11
Aug-11
Jun-11
Apr-11
Feb-11
Dec-10
Oct-10
Aug-10
Jun-10
Apr-10
Feb-10
Dec-09
Oct-09
60,000
50,000
40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
Angola
Ghana
0
Kenya
Tanzania
Dec-11
Nov-11
Oct-11
Sep-11
Aug-11
Jul-11
Jun-11
May-11
Apr-11
Mar-11
Feb-11
Jan-11
Dec-10
Nov-10
Oct-10
1,000
800
600
400
200
Lonrho Logistics
Rollex
0
Dec-11
Nov-11
Oct-11
Sep-11
Aug-11
Jul-11
Jun-11
May-11
Apr-11
Mar-11
Feb-11
Jan-11
Dec-10
Nov-10
Oct-10
25
15
20
10
5
0
Dec-11
Nov-11
Oct-11
Sep-11
Aug-11
Jul-11
Jun-11
May-11
Apr-11
Mar-11
Feb-11
Jan-11
Dec-10
Nov-10
Oct-10
35,000
30,000
25,000
15,000
20,000
10,000
5,000
Sales volume trend
0
Dec-11
Nov-11
Oct-11
Sep-11
Aug-11
Jul-11
Jun-11
May-11
Apr-11
Mar-11
Feb-11
Jan-11
Dec-10
Nov-10
Oct-10
120
40
60
80
100
20
0
Angola
Ghana
Kenya
Tanzania
09 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
July 2011
Lonrho acquires 100% of the business of 
Grindrod PCA, a leading exporter of fruit, 
vegetables and fish from Sub-Saharan Africa 
to the global market by air and sea.
Business specific KPIs




Rollex/Lonrho Logistics






Fly540








Luba Freeport







Oceanfresh





Air-freight (tonnages)
Passengers flown
Passenger yield achieved (US$)
Sales volumes (cases)
Supply vessel movements Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
10 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Principal risks and 
uncertainties
Effective management of risk and 
uncertainty is essential to the protection of 
Lonrho’s reputation and the achievement 
of sustainable shareholder value.
July 2011
Oceanfresh wins contract 
to supply sustainably 
sourced hake fillets to 
Walmart stores in the U.S.
Principal Risks






















Risk management








































Principal risks and uncertainties









 11 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
July 2011
Lonrho Hotels awarded 
exclusive master franchise 
for the easyHotel.com 
budget hotel chain to be 
developed across Africa.
Risks relating to the operations of the Group:
Strategy
Description of risk Impact Mitigation
























Investment
Description of risk Impact Mitigation
































 August 2011
Lonrho signs an exclusive memorandum of 
understanding with the Government of Ghana 
to conduct the feasibility study and design for 
an oil services terminal in Western Ghana.
Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
12 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Finance and treasury
Description of risk Impact Mitigation















































 August 2011
Lonrho acquires rights over 
2,059 hectares of productive 
farmland and a 58,000 sq ft 
agricultural pack house 
and high care unit.
13 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Business partners, key relationships and reputation
Description of risk Impact Mitigation

















Systems and technology
Description of risk Impact Mitigation





People
Description of risk Impact Mitigation




















 September 2011
Lonrho acquires an 80% equity 
interest in ATdM, a 300,000m² 
coastal hotel and development 
site in Beira, Mozambique.
Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
14 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Economic, political and environmental
Description of risk Impact Mitigation

































Principal risks and uncertainties continued 15 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Legal and regulatory
Description of risk Impact Mitigation



















October 2011
Oceanfresh launches private 
label brand “Cape Point” 
for Shoprite/Checkers. Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
16 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Chairman’s  
Statement
David Lenigas
Executive Chairman
3 April 20 1 2
October 2011
Fresh Direct commences 
delivery of an agreed growing 
programme to supply 900 tonnes 
of strawberries to South Africa’s 
Pic’n’Pay over 8 months.
“Lonrho has made solid 
progress during the period 
to the end of 2011 and I am 
pleased to report strong 
performances across the 
majority of Lonrho’s operating 
divisions in Africa.”
























 November 2011
Fly540 Ghana begins 
commercial flights 
and completes its 
three hub strategy.
January 2011
Oceanfresh wins contract 
to supply Hake to 
United Airlines for their 
first and business class 
flights from the USA.
17 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
December 2011
Lonrho’s American 
Depositary Receipts are 
admitted to trading on 
the OTCQX in the U.S.
























































































 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
18 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Chief Executive 
Officer’s Statement
Geoffrey White
Director and Chief Executive Officer
3 April 20 1 2








































Agribusiness 



January 2012
Lonrho expands its exclusive 
John Deere dealership network in 
Africa, adding Tanzania and South 
Sudan to its current operations 
in Angola and Mozambique.
February 2012
Lonrho Hotels awarded 
ten year management 
agreement for the 450 
room Grand Hotel 
Kinshasa in the DRC. 19 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011

















Transportation














Infrastructure
















Hotels 



















Support Services










Outlook








“Lonrho has developed significantly over 
the past four years and 2011 sees the 
culmination of the investment programme 
and the completion of this stage of the roll-
out of the Group’s business strategy.”
March 2012
e-Kwikbuild awarded 
contracts for the supply 
and construction of 398 
classrooms for 116 new 
schools in South Africa.
April 2012
Lonrho announces first 
easyHotel in Africa to 
open in Johannesburg 
CBD by the end of 2012. Operating Review
 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
20 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Agribusiness
Lonrho Agribusiness vertically integrates the production, sourcing, 
logistics, processing and distribution of agricultural products from 
Sub-Saharan Africa to the consumer, both domestically and globally.
Focused on the fruit, vegetable, fish and meat sectors, the division 
supplies leading retailers in Sub-Saharan Africa, Europe, USA, 
Middle East, Scandinavia and, increasingly, the Far East.
The division also distributes agricultural and heavy machinery. 
Contribution to Group 
Turnover
£94.5m
(£55.3m 2010)
50.2% 21 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Agribusiness


Agri-logistics
Rollex/Lonrho Logistics

































Farming
Fresh Direct 




























Seafood 
Oceanfresh 




















 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
22 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011










Fish On Line






Agricultural machinery distribution
Trak Auto/LonAgro




























 23 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
From crop to shop
Products sourced from farms  
in Sub-Saharan Africa
From sea to shelf
Fish and crustacea sourced from Mozambique, 
South Africa and Namibia
Refrigerated transport
Lonrho’s trucking fleet transports products to Lonrho cold stores
Refrigerated distribution to local and global markets
Seamless delivery from source to supermarket
Vertically integrated cold store chain
International standards to GLOBALG.A.P. & HACCP
Improved traceability, continuity & quality
Low care
Products are packed  
for shipment
High care
Products are prepared, packaged, price and  
date stamped, to retailers’ requirements
 Lonrho Agribusiness V alue Chain
Lonrho cold storage 
Handling fresh, chilled and frozen products Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
24 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Infrastructure
11 .6 %
Lonrho Ports develops and manages oil logistics terminals.
Luba Freeport, the successful oil service terminal in the 
Gulf of Guinea, has attracted the major global oil sector 
service companies to be long term tenants at the port to 
service offshore exploration and production rigs.
e-Kwikbuild manufactures and supplies quality 
prefabricated buildings across the Continent.
Contribution to Group 
Turnover
£21 .8m Turnover
(£14.0m 2010) 25 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Infrastructure


Ports 




































Prefabricated buildings 






































 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
26 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Transportation
Fly540, a regional passenger airline, has developed three 
African hubs in Kenya, Angola and Ghana, to provide a 
service delivering passengers on time, comfortably and reliably 
across the Continent. Already successfully established in East 
Africa, the airline launched in Angola and Ghana in 2011.
18.8 %
Contribution to Group 
Turnover
£35.5m Turnover
(£21.1m 2010) 27 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Transportation


















































 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
28 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Hotels
Lonrho Hotels is an established and recognisable brand name in 
Africa with a portfolio of quality hotels centred on the commercial, 
conference and business related markets across the Continent.
Lonrho Hotels owns or manages unique, character hotels in 
Lubumbashi and Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of 
Congo, Maputo in Mozambique and Mutare in Zimbabwe.
6.1 %
Contribution to Group 
Turnover
£11 .5m Turnover
(£5.9m 2010) 29 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Hotels






















































 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
30 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Support Services
Lonrho’s IT business is a full systems integrator and manager that designs, 
builds, develops and integrates IT solutions for large corporate clients, banks 
and governments and then undertakes management contracts to run and 
manage installations. Lonrho IT is a top tier distributor for Cisco, Microsoft, 
Dell and Hewlett Packard systems and equipment and is strategically 
building a pan-African network of IT companies. AFEX provides secure 
accommodation in Kenya and Juba in the Republic of South Sudan.
13.3%
Contribution to Group 
Turnover
£25.1m Turnover
(£11.1m 2010) 31 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Support Services


IT











AFEX







































 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
32 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Financial  
Review
David Armstrong
Finance Director
3 April 20 1 2
Overview 





























“The Group continues to grow rapidly 
through a combination of organic 
growth, acquisition and new business 
start-ups. By 31 December 2011 the key 
platforms were in place for each business.” 33 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011



















 Change of accounting reference date 






















Group performance






2010
Agribusiness
Transportation
Infrastructure
Hotels
Support Services
2011
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
180
190
200
£m















 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
34 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Net
Operating
Proﬁt
£m
2010
Agribusiness
Hotels
Support Services
Transportation
Infrastructure
Other
2011



























Financial Review continued







Earnings per share 



Dividend 


 Key factors driving growth of the business 





Acquisitions 






















 35 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011

































Business start-ups
























 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
36 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011











Capital expenditure








Capital structure and Group ﬁnancing






















Financial Review continued 37 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Capitalisation and indebtedness








31 
December 
2011 
£m




 155.7 20.1
 4.9
 15.2
 95.3 44.4 20.3
 30.6
 12.7


Finance Costs 









 Treasury Activity









Currency 









Transactional Risk









Translation Risk 









Taxation






 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
38 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Corporate 
Responsibility
Lonrho is committed to investing in its workforce 
and their wellbeing, supporting communities and 
the local economies where we operate, conducting 
our business with integrity and protecting the 
environment. These corporate responsibility values are 
applied across the diverse businesses in the Group.























 39 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Case study
e-Kwikbuild


























 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
40 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011






























Investing in our workforce and their 
wellbeing
Rollex





Lonrho Hotels:

 Corporate responsibility and investment 
decisions 






























Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment 
(BBBEE) in South Africa










Corporate Responsibility continued 41 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011




Supporting communities
Luba




Fly540



CES




Integrity








Strengthening the local economy
 e-Kwikbuild













Protecting the environment
Oceanfresh








AFEX





Lonrho Logistics





 Aligned with the 
Growth of Africa
42 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Board of Directors
1. David Lenigas
Executive Chairman














2. Geoffrey White
Director & Chief Executive Officer














3. David Armstrong
Finance Director















4. Emma Priestley
Executive Director












1
2
3
4 43 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
5. Ambassador Frances Cook
Senior Independent Director
Chair: Remuneration and Corporate 
Responsibility Committee

























6. Rt. Hon Sir Richard Needham 
Earl of Kilmorey
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chair: Nomination Committee
















7. Jean Ellis
Non-Executive Director
Chair: Audit Committee















8. Kiran Morzaria
Independent Non-Executive Director















5
7
8
6 44 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Combined Code compliance 
Lonrho is committed to good corporate governance across 
the Group, for which the whole Board is accountable.
 
On 26 April 2011, the Company transferred the listing of its 
ordinary share capital from AIM to the premium listing 
segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and was 
admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s main 
market for listed securities.
 
The principal governance rules applying to UK companies 
listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in The UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Combined Code”) that is 
appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
 
Whilst the Company was listed on the AIM, the Directors 
recognised the value of the Combined Code and, 
notwithstanding that under AIM rules full compliance was not 
required, the Directors considered the recommendations and 
applicability insofar as was practicable and appropriate for a 
public company of its size.
 
The Listing Rules require all companies with a premium listing 
of equity shares (incorporated in the UK) to report on the 
extent to which they comply with the provisions of the 
Combined Code and to explain and justify any non-
compliance. The Company did not fully comply with the 
Combined Code as at 31 December 2011 because:
1. The composition of its Remuneration and Audit Committees 
was not consistent with the recommendations of the 
Combined Code as detailed on pages 48 to 49. However, as 
explained on pages 48 and 49, the composition of the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees are now consistent with the 
recommendations of the Combined Code. 
2. In addition, whilst the Company has a separate Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman has a signiﬁcant 
executive function due to his ambassadorial role within the 
Group and as he provides entrepreneurial leadership with 
regard to the strategy of the Group. The Board made the 
decision to appoint David Lenigas as Chairman whilst 
retaining his executive role following consultation with 
major shareholders. 
The Company will continue to monitor its corporate 
governance framework to ensure that it remains appropriate 
for the Company, having regard to the scale and complexity of 
its business. 
Board composition 
The Board currently comprises eight Directors: an Executive 
Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive 
Directors. 
During the period, Sir Richard Needham was appointed to the 
Board as a Non-Executive Director on 26 April 2011. 
The biographies of all members of the Board are set out on 
pages 42 and 43.
Role of the Board 
UK company law requires Directors to act in a way they 
consider, in good faith, would promote the success of the 
Company for the beneﬁt of shareholders as a whole. In doing 
so, the Directors must have regard (amongst other things) to: 
 the likely consequence of any decision in the long term 
 the interests of Lonrho employees 
 the need to foster business relationships with suppliers, 
customers and others 
 the impact of operations on the community and the 
environment 
 the desirability of maintaining a reputation for high 
standards of business conduct 
 the need to act fairly as between shareholders
In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure 
that the Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
  
Its role includes the establishment, review and monitoring of 
strategic objectives, approval of major acquisitions, disposals, 
capital expenditure and ﬁnancing arrangements, and to the 
Group’s systems of internal control, governance and risk 
management. It also ensures adequate succession planning 
for senior management and monitors policies and 
performance on corporate responsibility.
 
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the 
Group: the Executive Directors are directly responsible for 
running the business operations and the Non-Executive 
Directors are responsible for constructively challenging 
proposals on strategy, scrutinising the performance of 
management, determining levels of remuneration and for 
succession planning for the Executive Directors. The Non-
Executive Directors must also satisfy themselves on the 
integrity of ﬁnancial information and that controls and systems 
of risk management are robust.
 
The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis and 
exercises control over the performance of each operating 
company within the Group by agreeing budgetary targets and 
monitoring performance against those targets.
Following presentations by executive management and a 
disciplined process of review and challenge by the Board, 
clear decisions on the policy and strategy are adopted and the 
executive management are fully empowered to implement 
those decisions.
 
The powers of the Board are set out in a formal schedule of 
matters reserved for Board approval. These matters are 
signiﬁcant to the Group as a whole due to their strategic, 
ﬁnancial, operational or reputational implications.  
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed 
and updated regularly.
 
Corporate Governance Statement
starting page number for this section to be conﬁrmed 45 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
A summary of those matters is set out below.
Summary of matters reserved for the Board: 
 the approval of the Group’s long term objectives and 
commercial strategy; 
 the approval of the Group’s annual budgets and material 
changes to them; 
 the extension of the Group’s activities into new businesses 
or geographic areas; 
 changes to the Group’s capital structure – both debt and 
equity; 
 ensuring maintenance of a sound and effective system of 
internal controls and risk management processes;
 approval of material transactions, major capital projects and 
material contracts and conduct of material litigation;
 composition of the Board and the remuneration and the 
reward of the Directors, company secretary and other 
senior executives; and 
 the Group’s corporate governance framework.
Board activities in 2011 
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer reported 
to the Board on the businesses within the Group and the 
performance of the Group as a whole. Reports were also 
made by each of the principal Board Committees. 
Chairman/Chief Executive Officer functions
The Chairman is responsible for running the Board and 
ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, and setting 
the Board agenda taking into account the issues and concerns 
of all Board members. He is responsible for maintaining close 
contact with major shareholders to understand their issues 
and concerns and ensuring that they are regularly informed of 
the progress and direction of the Company. The Chairman is 
fully engaged on all issues on which the Board will need to 
make a decision through ongoing consultation with the Chief 
Executive Officer and members of the executive management.
  
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading the 
Executive Directors and the senior team in the day to day 
running of the Group’s businesses and, in particular, for 
developing the Group’s objectives, strategy and annual 
budgets having regard to the Group’s responsibilities to its 
shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders 
and for achieving those objectives, executing that strategy and 
achieving that budget following approval from the Board.  The 
Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for, amongst other 
matters, leading the Executive Committee examining all trade 
investments and major capital expenditure proposed by 
Group companies, leading geographical and sector 
diversiﬁcation initiatives and managing the Group’s risk proﬁle.
 
Due to the nature of the risks associated with working in 
Africa, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer work to have 
a close understanding of each other’s roles to minimise risk 
and maximise continuity.
Balance between Independent and Non-Independent 
Directors 
The Combined Code recommends that a “smaller company” 
within the meaning of the Combined Code should have at 
least two Independent Non-Executive Directors. For the 
purposes of the Combined Code a smaller company is one 
that is below the FTSE350. A director is considered 
independent if the board determines that the director is 
independent in character and judgement and whether there 
are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or 
could appear to affect, the director’s judgement.
 
Currently, the Board is composed of eight members: four 
Executive Directors (including the Chairman) and four 
Non-Executive Directors. For the purposes of the Combined 
Code, the Board considers Ambassador Frances Cook and Sir 
Richard Needham to have been independent as at 31 
December 2011, whilst Kiran Morzaria became independent 
subsequently, as he had a small number of cross directorships 
with David Lenigas, which have fallen away. Accordingly, as at 
the date of signature of these accounts, the Board complies 
with the Combined Code recommendations regarding the 
composition of the Board.
 
Although Jean Ellis is not considered to be independent, as 
that term is deﬁned by the Combined Code, the Board 
considers that she is independent of management and free of 
any relationship which could materially interfere with the 
exercise of her independent judgement. Jean Ellis is not 
considered to be independent as deﬁned in the Combined 
Code because of her previous position as an Executive 
Director and as she is a partner of DSG Chartered 
Accountants, which provides an immaterial level of services to 
the Group. However, she makes a valuable contribution to the 
strategic direction of the Group because of her objectivity and 
ﬁnancial experience and she also has signiﬁcant historical 
knowledge of the Group.
Senior Independent Director 
The Combined Code also recommends that the Board should 
appoint one of the Independent Directors as the Senior 
Independent Director to provide a sounding board for the 
Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other 
directors when necessary. The Senior Independent Director 
should be available to shareholders if they have concerns 
which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, 
Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors has failed 
to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate. The 
Board has appointed Ambassador Frances Cook as its Senior 
Independent Director. 
Conﬂicts of interest 
Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation 
before taking up any position that conﬂicts, or may possibly 
conﬂict, with the interests of the Company. Lonrho’s Articles 
of Association contain provisions to allow the Directors to 
authorise situation of potential conﬂict of interests so that a 
Director is not in breach of his or her duty under company 
law. All Directors are aware of the need to consult regarding 
any conﬂicts which may arise so that prior consideration can 
be given by the Board as to whether or not such conﬂicts 
should be approved.  46 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Board and Committee attendance
Board meetings
Audit  
Committee meetings
Remuneration  
Committee meetings
Nomination  
Committee meetings
 Corporate  
Responsibility meetings 
Name of Director  A  B C B C B C B C B
Executive Chairman 
David Lenigas 4 4
Executive Directors 
Geoffrey White 4 4 3 3 3 3
David Armstrong 4 4
Emma Priestley 4 4
Non-Executive  
Directors 
Ambassador 
Frances Cook (a) 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 3
Jean Ellis 4 4 6 6 3 3
Kiran Morzaria 4 4 6 6 3 3
Sir Richard 
Needham (b) 3 3 6 4 3 3 2 2
Notes: 
A Maximum number of  scheduled meetings Director could have attended 
B Number of meetings Director actually attended 
C Maximum number of meetings Director could have attended 
a Senior Independent Director 
b Appointed to the Board on 26 April 2011 
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Re-election of Directors 
In line with the Combined Code, all Directors seek re-election 
every three years and any Director appointed during the year 
also seeks re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Induction, business awareness and development 
On appointment, Non-Executive Directors, who are expected 
to provide a time commitment to the Company of at least 24 
days a year or to devote such time as is necessary for the 
proper performance of their duties, are provided with a 
detailed induction programme. This covers the Group’s 
operations, including social, ethical and environmental 
matters, and meetings with senior management as part of a 
guided tour of the Group’s main operations, as well as access 
to and guidance through Board policies, prior papers and 
minutes.
 
The Directors may, at the Company’s expense, take 
independent professional advice and are encouraged to 
continually update their professional skills and knowledge of 
the business.
 
As a further aspect of their ongoing development, each 
Director will receive feedback on his or her performance 
following the Board’s performance evaluation in each year.
Composition of the Board 
The Board intends in due course to consider appointing 
another Independent Non-Executive Director, whereupon the 
Committee memberships may be adjusted to reﬂect this, 
although no speciﬁc candidate has been identiﬁed at this 
stage. 
Performance evaluation 
The Combined Code recommends that an evaluation of 
effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is conducted 
annually and that the process is externally facilitated at least 
every third year. 
In 2012 an internal performance evaluation of the Board and 
its Committees and each individual Director will be carried out 
in accordance with the Combined Code. 
Board Meetings 
The Board has four board meetings scheduled each year. In 
addition to the scheduled meetings during the period, there 
were a number of additional Board meetings to consider 
signiﬁcant acquisitions, fundraisings and other corporate 
activities.
 
Scheduled Board and Committee meetings are arranged up to 
one year in advance and all Directors are expected to attend 
each meeting. All Directors are provided with the papers and 
relevant information in advance of each meeting and, if a 
director is unable to attend a meeting due to exceptional 
circumstances, he or she will still receive the supporting 
papers and will discuss any matters they wish to raise with the 
Chairman of the Board or the Chairman of the relevant 
committee, in order to ensure that his or her views are given 
consideration.
 
Meeting attendance for the 15 month period ended 31 
December 2011 is set out in the table below: 47 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Internal controls 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of 
internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
 
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate risk of failure to meet business objectives and can 
provide only reasonable not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
 
Consistent with the guidance provided for directors on 
internal control by the Financial Reporting Council (“Internal 
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on The Combined 
Code”), the Board conﬁrms that there is an ongoing process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing assessed signiﬁcant 
risks faced by the Group, that this has been in place for the 
period under review and up to the date of approval of the 
Report and Accounts and accords with the guidance.
 
The Board affirms the importance it attaches to continuous 
review and application of the guidance, the regular and 
systematic assessment of the risks facing the Group and the 
value of embedding risk management and internal control 
systems with its business processes.
 
Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an 
internal audit function, choosing instead to outsource the 
function to a ﬁrm of chartered accountants based in South 
Africa, which carries out a rolling programme of visits to the 
Group’s subsidiaries and reports back to the Audit Committee 
and the Board.
 
In addition, a rolling programme of review of key controls is 
conducted through a combination of the external audit 
process, external internal audit advisers or through reviews by 
members of the ﬁnance team, as appropriate.
The key features which the Board and Audit Committee have 
applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s system of 
internal controls include: 
 a comprehensive system of ﬁnancial reporting and business 
planning; 
 a deﬁned schedule of matters for decision by the Board;
 an organisational structure with clearly deﬁned levels of 
authority and division of responsibilities; 
 formal documentation procedures;
 the close involvement of the Executive Directors in all 
aspects of day-to-day operations, including regular 
meetings with senior management to review all operational 
aspects of the business and risk management systems; 
 the Board reviewing Group strategy and progress on 
developments at each scheduled Board meeting; and 
 a formal whistleblowing policy.
Relations with shareholders 
The Board is keenly aware of the importance of there being a 
dialogue with shareholders to ensure that the Board keeps 
abreast of, and understands, shareholders’ views and opinions.
 
It achieves this as set out below:
 the Chairman and the Executive Directors regularly meet 
institutional shareholders, potential investors and analysts; 
 there are presentations to, and/or conference calls with, 
analysts and investors at the time of the announcement of 
results;
 to provide a more detailed knowledge of the Group, the 
Company arranges seminars, and investor and analyst visits 
to the Group’s operations; 
 investor relations reports describing  investor and analyst 
opinions are provided to the Board;
 at the Annual General Meeting, shareholders have the 
opportunity to raise questions with the Board in the 
meeting;
 Directors also make themselves available before and after 
the formal general meeting to talk informally to 
shareholders;
 the Company’s website helps shareholders keep abreast  of 
developments. It is regularly updated with press releases, 
comments and interviews. Shareholders may register on the 
website for the Company’s mailing list to be sent news 
releases automatically.
Model Code
The Company has a code of securities dealing in relation to 
the Group (including the Ordinary Shares) which is based on, 
and is at least as rigorous as, the Model Code as published in 
the Listing Rules. The code applies to the Directors of the 
Company and persons discharging managerial responsibilities.
Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy
The Company’s commitment to high standards of ethical 
behaviour pre-dates the UK Bribery Act 2011. However, the 
Board is cognisant of the heightened legal risks arising as a 
result of the new legislation and increased global enforcement 
activity. 
Lonrho has in place an Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy, 
which has been adopted across all divisions of the Group. The 
Board has overall responsibility for ensuring compliance by 
Directors, employees and other persons associated with the 
Group with applicable legal and ethical obligations. The 
Company’s Finance Director has primary and day-to-day 
responsibility for implementation of the policy. Management 
at all levels of the Group are responsible for ensuring those 
reporting to them are made aware of and understand the 
policy. The policy gives guidance on risk identiﬁcation and the 
procedures to follow where a risk is identiﬁed, together with 
clear guidelines on gifts, entertainment and donations. 48 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Board Committees 
As recommended by the Combined Code, the Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees with formally 
delegated duties and responsibilities with written terms of reference, which are periodically reviewed. In addition, the Company 
has established a Corporate Responsibility Committee. The members of each committee are as follows: 
Committee Chairman Members
Audit Jean Ellis Sir Richard Needham and Kiran Morzaria
Remuneration Ambassador Frances Cook Kiran Morzaria
Nomination Sir Richard Needham Ambassador Frances Cook and 
Geoffrey White
Corporate Responsibility Ambassador Frances Cook Sir Richard Needham, Jean Ellis and 
Geoffrey White
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities with regard to ﬁnancial reporting, external and 
internal audits and controls, including reviewing the 
Company’s interim and annual ﬁnancial statements, reviewing 
and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work undertaken 
by the external auditors, advising on the appointment of 
external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal audit activities, internal controls and risk 
management systems. The ultimate responsibility for 
reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and 
the half yearly reports remains with the Board.
The Combined Code recommends that the Audit Committee 
should, in the case of smaller companies such as the 
Company, comprise two Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. At least one member of the Audit Committee 
should have recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience.
 
The membership of the Company’s Audit Committee 
comprises three members: Jean Ellis, Sir Richard Needham 
and Kiran Morzaria. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is 
Jean Ellis, who is a Chartered Accountant. The Deputy 
Company Secretary acts as secretary of the Audit Committee. 
The Company recognises that the Audit Committee did not 
comply with the Combined Code recommendations regarding 
the composition of the Audit Committee during the 15 month 
period ended 31 December 2011 because, while its members 
were Non-Executive Directors, only one was independent  as 
deﬁned in the Combined Code. However, the Board 
considered that, in order to ensure the effective working of 
the Audit Committee, and in particular having regard to their 
recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience, it was appropriate to 
appoint Jean Ellis as Chairman and Kiran Morzaria as a 
member of the Audit Committee, and was conﬁdent of their 
experience to ensure that the committee’s affairs were 
conducted in an impartial and objective manner. The Board 
considers that Mr. Morzaria became independent subsequent 
to 31 December 2011.
 
The quorum for meetings of the Audit Committee is two 
members. The Lonrho Finance Director and a representative 
of the external auditors normally attend meetings of the Audit 
Committee. There is at least one meeting, or a part of a 
meeting, each year which the external auditors attend without 
management present to discuss the remit of the Audit 
Committee and any issues arising from the audit. The Audit 
Committee meets as and when requested by either its 
Chairman or the Chairman of the Company. The Chairman of 
the Audit Committee ensures that meetings are held 
sufficiently frequently for the Audit Committee to fulﬁl its 
duties. However, in any event, the Audit Committee has 
particular regard to the management and mitigation of risk, 
matters of internal control (including the governance of 
subsidiaries) and value for money. The Audit Committee is 
authorised by the Board at the expense of the Company to 
obtain external professional advice and to secure the 
attendance of outsiders with relevant experience at meetings 
when it considers necessary.
Duties of the Audit Committee
The principal duties of the Audit Committee include the 
following:
 to review and monitor the external auditor’s independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, 
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements;
 to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the 
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into 
account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of 
non-audit services by the external audit ﬁrm; 
 to make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the 
shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in 
relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of 
the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and 
terms of engagement of the external auditor;
 to monitor the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements of the 
Company, reviewing signiﬁcant ﬁnancial reporting 
judgements contained in them;
 to discuss problems and reservations arising from the 
interim and ﬁnal external audits, as well as any matters the 
external auditor may wish to raise;
 to review the Group’s internal control and ﬁnancial 
reporting systems (including ﬁnancial, operational, 
compliance and risk management) and to make 
recommendations to the Board; and
 to review from time to time the need for an internal audit 
function and, where such a function exists, to review the 
implementation of the programme ensuring its smooth 
efficient running and appropriate standing within the Group.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in 
determining its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, 
including making recommendations to the Board on the  49 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Company’s policy on executive remuneration, determining the 
individual remuneration and beneﬁts package of each of the 
Executive Directors and recommending and monitoring the 
remuneration of senior management below Board level.
The Combined Code provides that the Remuneration 
Committee should, in the case of smaller companies such as 
the Company, consist of at least two independent Non-
Executive Directors.
The membership of the Company’s Remuneration Committee 
comprises two members: Ambassador Frances Cook and 
Kiran Morzaria. The Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee is Ambassador Frances Cook. The Deputy 
Company Secretary acts as the secretary of the Remuneration 
Committee. The Company recognises that the Remuneration 
Committee did not comply with Combined Code 
recommendations regarding the composition of the 
Remuneration Committee during the 15 month period ended 
at 31 December 2011 because, while its members were 
Non-Executive Directors, only one was independent as 
deﬁned in the Combined Code. However, the Board 
considered that, in order to ensure the effective working of 
the Remuneration Committee, it was appropriate for Kiran 
Morzaria to have been a member of the Remuneration 
Committee and was conﬁdent that the committee’s affairs 
were conducted in an impartial and objective manner. The 
Board considers that Mr. Morzaria became independent 
subsequent to 31 December 2011.
 
The quorum for meetings of the Remuneration Committee is 
two members. The Remuneration Committee may invite any 
Director to join meetings. However, no-one other than the 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and its members is 
entitled to attend and vote at a meeting. No Director is 
involved in any decisions as to his or her own remuneration. 
The Remuneration Committee meets formally at least twice a 
year and otherwise as required. The Remuneration Committee 
is authorised at the expense of the Company to obtain 
professional advice and to secure the attendance of outsiders 
with relevant experience at meetings when it considers it 
necessary.
Duties of the Remuneration Committee
The principal duties of the Remuneration Committee include 
the following:
 to make recommendations to the Board on the Company’s 
framework of Executive Director remuneration and its cost;
 to ensure that the Executive Directors and the Chairman are 
fairly and appropriately rewarded for their individual 
contributions to the Group’s overall performance, drawing 
on outside advice as necessary;
 to monitor the level and structure of remuneration for 
senior management and make recommendations regarding 
their remuneration packages;
 to advise on and monitor any performance related bonus or 
other incentive schemes; and 
 to see that awards under the Group’s share option schemes 
and bonus or other incentive plans, if any, are consistent 
with the Group’s overall performance and the performance 
of individuals and provide an additional incentive to 
management.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging 
its responsibilities relating to the composition and make-up of 
the Board. The Nomination Committee is responsible for 
evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of 
the Board, the size, structure and composition of the Board, 
retirements and appointments of additional and replacement 
directors and will make appropriate recommendations to the 
Board on such matters.
The Combined Code provides that a majority of the members 
of the Nomination Committee should be Independent 
Non-Executive Directors and that the Chairman or an 
Independent Non-Executive Director will chair the 
Nomination Committee.
The membership of the Company’s Nomination Committee 
comprises three members: Sir Richard Needham, Ambassador 
Frances Cook and Geoffrey White. The Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee is Sir Richard Needham. The Deputy 
Company Secretary acts as the secretary of the Nomination 
Committee. The Company considers that the Nomination 
Committee complies with the Combined Code 
recommendations regarding the composition of the 
Nomination Committee.
The quorum for meetings of the Nomination Committee is 
two members. No-one other than the Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee and its members is entitled to attend 
or vote at a meeting of the Nomination Committee, although 
Directors may attend if invited to do so by the Nomination 
Committee. Meetings of the Nomination Committee shall be 
held at such times as the Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee, or the Chairman of the Company, deems 
appropriate, and in any event not less than twice per year. The 
Nomination Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain 
whatever professional advice it considers necessary.
Duties of the Nomination Committee
The principal duties of the Nomination Committee include the 
following:
 to review regularly the structure, size and composition of 
the Board (including the skills, knowledge and experience) 
and make recommendations to the Board with regard to 
any changes;
 to identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, 
appropriate candidates to ﬁll Board vacancies as and when 
they arise;
 to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
of the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a 
description of the role and capabilities required for a 
particular appointment;
 to give full consideration to succession planning taking into 
account the challenges and opportunities facing the 
Company and what skills, knowledge and expertise will be 
needed on the Board in the future and to make 
recommendations as regards plans for succession for both  
Executive and Non-Executive Directors;
 to review annually the time required for each Non-Executive 
Director having regard to their particular committee 
appointments and any other speciﬁc roles and to use 
performance evaluation to assess whether a Non-Executive 
Director has devoted sufficient time to their role and duties; 50 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Corporate Governance Statement continued
 to keep under review the leadership needs of the 
organisation, both Executive and Non-Executive, with a 
view to ensuring the continued ability of the Company to 
compete effectively in the marketplace;
 to recommend to the Board the re-election (or not) by 
shareholders of any Director under the retirement and 
re-election provisions in the Company’s Articles of 
Association;
 to make recommendations as regards the re-appointment 
of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of his or 
her speciﬁed term of office;
 to make recommendations to the Board concerning 
membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committee; 
and
 to ensure that on appointment to the Board, Non-Executive 
Directors receive formal written terms of appointment.
Corporate Responsibility Committee
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is responsible for 
reviewing and approving policies and initiatives relating to 
corporate responsibility matters and implementing the 
Group’s corporate responsibility values, as determined by the 
Board, viz.:
 Supporting communities 
 Investing in the Group’s workforce and their wellbeing 
 Integrity 
 Strengthening the local economy 
 Protecting the environment
The Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises four 
Directors of whom three are Non-Executive Directors. The 
current members are Ambassador Frances Cook, Jean Ellis, Sir 
Richard Needham and Geoffrey White. The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee is chaired by Ambassador Frances 
Cook and supported by the Company’s commercial manager 
for corporate projects. The Corporate Responsibility 
Committee meets at least twice each year. The Deputy 
Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee.
Duties of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 
The principal duties of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee  relate to identifying, evaluating and reviewing 
issues in relation to the following: 






 
 determined by the Committee from time to time
Executive Committee 
In addition to the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and 
Corporate Responsibility Committees, the Company has also 
established an Executive Committee.
The Company’s Executive Committee comprises the Executive 
Directors and certain managers including the Group’s General 
Counsel and the Group Financial Controller. The Chairman of 
the Executive Committee is the Chairman or, in his absence, 
the Chief Executive Officer. Its terms of reference provide for 
at least eight regular meetings per year. The Executive 
Committee’s primary responsibilities are to review the 
operating performance of each Group company, manage the 
Group’s strategic planning process and corporate acquisitions 
and disposal programme, monitor and approve capital 
expenditure and contracts entered into by the Group and to 
manage the Group’s HR policies. In addition, the Executive 
Committee is responsible for monitoring announcements 
required under the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules and ensuring that they are made in a 
timely fashion. 51 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Key activities for the Committees in the 15 months ended 31 December 2011 
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee
Met 6 times Met 3 times Met 3 times Met 3 times
Reviewed ﬁnancial 
statements in annual 
report, half year results 
and quarterly results 
statements
Reviewed scope and 
effectiveness of internal 
and external audit 
functions
Received reports from 
external and internal 
auditors
Monitored effectiveness 
of the system of internal 
controls and risk 
management
Reviewed provisions of  
non-audit  services by 
external auditors
Approved annual audit 
plan
Reviewed Executive 
Directors’ remuneration 
including salaries and 
bonuses
Approved the grant of 
share options
Reviewed Board and Board 
Committee composition 
to ensure the correct mix 
of skills and experience
Led the search for a new 
Non-Executive Director
Recommended the 
appointment of Sir Richard 
Needham as a Non-
Executive Director
Reviewed international 
corporate responsibility 
standards
Group corporate 
responsibility values 
determined and rolled out
Internal incentives 
established with managers 
to encourage progress 
across the Group
Corporate responsibility  
award established
Joined United Nations 
Global Compact
Anti – Corruption and 
Bribery policy rolled out 52 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Remuneration Report 
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present to you the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the 15 
months ended 31 December 2011. 
Remuneration strategy 
The Remuneration Committee is acutely aware of increasing public scrutiny of executive pay and concern regarding unmerited 
payments. At Lonrho, the close linkage of reward to the performance of the Group has always been a guiding principle 
underlying executive remuneration. The balance of remuneration for the Executive Directors is, therefore, such that a signiﬁcant 
part of their overall reward is conditional upon the attainment of demanding growth-related performance conditions over both 
the short and long term. 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Directors and senior management below Board level.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter reserved to the Chairman and Executive Directors. 
Within the terms of the agreed policy, the Committee recommends: 
 the total individual remuneration package including, where appropriate, bonuses and share-based incentives;
 the targets for any performance-related incentives; 
 the scope of any pension arrangements;
 contractual terms of engagement and any payments to be made on termination; 
 any major changes in employee beneﬁt structures throughout the Group; and 
 the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. 
Details of Committee members who served during the period, and their attendance at Committee meetings, are shown in the 
table on page 46.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Finance Director attend meetings by invitation.
The terms of reference of the Committee are summarised in the Corporate Governance Statement and can be found on the 
Company’s website or are available upon request. 
Remuneration policy 
The overall aims of Lonrho’s remuneration policy are to: 
 ensure that the organisation has a continued ability to attract, motivate and retain the high calibre individuals required at 
Board level;
 provide the opportunity for executives and other talented individuals to receive, within their overall remuneration package, 
competitive rewards for performance as a result of sustained Group performance over a longer period of time; 
 support the Group’s strategy and its execution;
 provide consistency in, and alignment with, the Group’s approach to performance-based pay and Lonrho’s overall executive 
compensation strategy.
The implementation of this policy involves: 
 paying a base salary that reﬂects individual roles, performance and contribution, taking into account salaries at companies of 
similar size and complexity and international markets; 
 giving executives the opportunity to increase their base earnings by meeting measures that support the Group’s strategy and 
budget, thereby linking executive rewards to the Group’s performance;
 rewarding executives fairly and responsibly for their contribution to the Group’s performance;
 encouraging executives to hold shares in the Company.
As well as setting the speciﬁc remuneration packages for Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee monitors the level 
and structure of remuneration for the Company’s most senior and highly remunerated executives. 
At the Company’s next Annual General Meeting shareholder approval will be sought for the remuneration policy by way of an 
advisory vote. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 53 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Salary and beneﬁts 
Base salaries and fees are established by reference to surveys of the terms offered by comparable quoted companies. The 
starting point for comparative surveys is the scope of the position and associated performance of the Chairman and each 
Executive Director. Excluding his own position and performance, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the deﬁnition of 
the scope of positions and assessment of the performance of each Executive Director, for approval by the Remuneration 
Committee. Salaries for the Executive Directors are reviewed at the beginning of each year and are set at competitive levels.
This report sets out the Company’s current policy on Directors’ remuneration for the 15 month period ended 31 December 
2011. Subsequent to the Company’s move from AIM to the main market the Committee carried out a review of the Executive 
Directors remuneration and have implemented changes with effect from 1 April 2012. This report sets out the arrangements 
that were in place for during the 15 month period ended 31 December 2011 and also explains the new arrangements that have 
been adopted. 
The Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently ﬂexible to take account of future 
changes in the Group’s business environment and remuneration practice.
Remuneration of Executive Directors for the 15 months ended 31 December 2011
Base salary 
With effect from 1 October 2010, the annual base salary of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was £500,000 
respectively, whilst the annual base salary for the Finance Director was £300,000 and the other Executive Director was 
£330,000. 
Performance based salary 
In addition, performance related salaries were paid to the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director to 
encourage the achievement of pre-deﬁned annual ﬁnancial objectives, taking into account in particular the accelerated revenue 
growth targets of the Group. 
The aggregate of the base and performance based salaries for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was set equal to 0.5% 
of the Group’s audited turnover, whilst the base and performance based salary for the Finance Director was set equal to 0.3% of 
the Group’s audited turnover. Details of the amounts paid are shown on page 57.
Bonuses 
To align remuneration with shareholders’ interests, a proportion of the Executive Directors’ potential total remuneration were 
related to annual corporate performance. 
Bonuses paid in the 15 month period ended 31 December 2011 were as follows and are detailed on page 57:
£’000
D. A. Lenigas 296
G. T. White 250
D. J. Armstrong 179
E. K. Priestley 45
J. M. Ellis 13
Ambassador F. D. Cook 33
None of the bonuses referred to above are pensionable. 
Beneﬁts in kind 
The value of beneﬁts for Executive Directors is included in the table of remuneration on page 57. These include a car allowance 
or provision of a company car, and life and health insurance. The value of each Director’s beneﬁts is assessable to income tax 
but is not pensionable. 
Unapproved Share Option Plan (“the Scheme”) 
During the period, the Company granted options over shares as described on pages 60. The Scheme has now been terminated.
Exercise of share options under the Scheme were not subject to prior achievement of a performance condition. 
Share usage under Unapproved Share Option Plan 
Based on the number of options outstanding as at 31 December 2011, the number of new shares issued under the Scheme over 
the last eight years, together with the number potentially to be issued, totalled an amount equal to 8.26% of the Company’s 
issued ordinary capital.  54 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
This is within the dilution limits of 10% set by the Association of British Insurers and reﬂected in the rules of the Scheme. 
Pension arrangements 
During the period, and save for the one-off pension contribution made on behalf of Mr. G.T. White detailed on page 57, no 
Director received any pension beneﬁts. 
Proposed remuneration of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 April 2012 
As mentioned above, following a review of Board remuneration conducted during the period following the move from AIM to 
the main market, the remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors will be substantially adjusted in 2012 as set out 
below. 
Base salary 
With effect from 1 April 2012, the annual base salary of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will be £550,000 respectively, 
whilst the annual base salary for the Finance Director will be £350,000. The performance based salary arrangements will be 
revised as set out below. 
The annual base salary of the other Executive Director will be £330,000.
Bonuses 
A new bonus scheme has also been put in place for 2012 whereby the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director 
will receive an annual bonus of up to 100% of their base salaries, based on performance divided into three measures: Proﬁt 
before Tax (“PBT”), to reﬂect business performance: net cash ﬂow, to incentivise them to perform well and to budget; and 
personal performance to be decided by the Committee. Each of the three components would account for up to 33.3% of base 
salaries. 
The PBT calculation would be normalised to remove the effect of foreign exchange gains or losses and the effect of acquisitions 
and disposals. If PBT is on target (based on the Group’s consolidated budget approved by the Board), a 15% bonus would be 
awarded. If PBT is on target plus 17%, a 25% bonus would be awarded. If PBT is on target plus 30%, a 33.3% bonus would be 
awarded. 
If net cash ﬂow is on target (based on the Group’s consolidated budget approved by the Board), a 15% bonus would be awarded. 
If net cash ﬂow is on target plus 17%, a 25% bonus would be awarded. If net cash ﬂow is on target plus 30%, a 33.3% bonus 
would be awarded.
Personal performance would be set by the Committee on an individual basis, annually. Personal performance targets will be 
stretching and include a mix of operational, strategic and ﬁnancial targets selected to incentivise delivery of key Group priorities. 
Any bonus awarded over 60% of base salary would be used to purchase shares in the Company, unless shares were already 
owned to the value of the individual’s annual base salary. Within ﬁve years all Executive Directors should own shares equal to 
their level of annual net base salary at that time. 
A clawback mechanism will operate whereby the previous bonuses awarded to Executive Directors can be recovered from them 
for a period of up to 12 months. The clawback would apply where: 
 A bonus had been awarded on the basis of performance which is later found to have been overestimated;
 It is discovered that an award had been paid out at a time when the Executive Director was in serious breach of his 
employment or ﬁduciary duties, which would have blocked the payment if known at the time; 
 It is discovered that an award had been paid out at a time when there had been any material misstatement of the Group 
ﬁnancial statements.
An annual bonus for the other Executive Director will be recommended by the Committee and approved by the Board based on 
ﬁnancial and personal performance. 
Unapproved Share Option Plan 
It is envisaged that no further share options will be granted under the Scheme. 
Pension arrangements 
The Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will receive a pension allowance of £150,000 per annum and the Finance 
Director a pension allowance of £100,000 per annum. 
Share based incentives 
It is the intention of the Committee that all future share-based incentives to Executive Directors should be made under a 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “LTIP Scheme”). Under the proposed LTIP Scheme, it is proposed that annual awards of shares 
would be made which vest at the end of a three year period subject to a number of conditions including continued employment 
and the satisfaction of a Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) target. The proposed initial allocation would be equal to 100% of  55 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
annual base salary. Awards would be structured so that 50% of the shares would vest if Lonrho’s TSR over a 3 year period was in 
the top half of the relative comparator index and 100% of the shares would vest if it was in the top quartile of the same index. An 
initial comparator index of 27 companies has been chosen from the FTSE SmallCap, FTSE SmallCap Support Services Index and 
FTSE 350 Food Producers Index. However, the Committee is also taking external professional advice on the constitution of the 
index.
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting, shareholder approval will be sought for the new LTIP Scheme. 
Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) 
The following graph indicates the value by the end of 2011 of £100 invested in Lonrho Plc ordinary shares on 1 January 2009 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE SmallCap over the same period. The graph was selected as the most 
appropriate comparison measure because the Company became a constituent member of the FTSE SmallCap index with effect 
from 26 April 2011 and the members of inter alia the FTSE SmallCap will form the comparator group for the purposes of the TSR 
performance test under the proposed LTIP Scheme.
Total Return
0.0
50.0
100.0
150.0
200.0
250.0
300.0
350.0
400.0
450.0
500.0
01/01/2009
01/07/2009
01/01/2010
01/07/2010
01/01/2011
01/07/2011
Lonrho FTSE Smallcap
 
Contractual terms 
All Executive Directors have rolling contracts subject to notice of termination by either party, or to summary notice in the event 
by a Director of serious breach of obligations , dishonesty, serious misconduct or other conduct bringing the Company into 
disrepute. 
The following table sets out a summary of the Directors’ service contracts or terms of appointment:
Date of 
Contract 
Expiry 
Date Notice Period 
Length of service 
as at 31.12.11
Executive Directors 
D. A. Lenigas 01.05.07 – 6 months 6 years 
G. T. White 01.05.07 – 6 months 4 years 2 months 
D. J. Armstrong 11.11.08 – 9 months (Company) 
6 months (Director)
3 years 1 month 
E. K. Priestley 28.02.06 – 12 months 5 years 10 months 
Non-Executive Directors
Ambassador F. D. Cook 22.10.07 30.09.12 1 month 4 years 2 months 
Sir R. Needham 23.03.11 25.04.12 1 month 8 months 
J. M. Ellis 1.12.11 30.11.12 1 month 4 years 7 months 
K. Morzaria 28.09.11 27.09.12 1 month 1 year 3 months 
No compensation on termination of employment was made during the year.  56 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
LonZim Plc 
The remuneration of the Directors in respect of their services to LonZim Plc during the 15 months ended 31 December 2011 
were as follows: 
£’000
D. A. Lenigas 15
G. T. White 15
D. J. Armstrong 15
E. K. Priestley 15
J. M. Ellis 31
Other external appointments 
Executive Directors may retain any payment received in respect of external Executive or Non-Executive appointments.
Internal relativity 
The Remuneration Committee is sensitive to the need to set Directors’ remuneration having regard to pay and conditions in the 
Group as a whole and is satisﬁed that the approach taken by the Company is fair and reasonable in light of current market 
practice and the best interests of shareholders. 
Non-Executive Directors 
The review of Board remuneration conducted during the period also determined that the base Non-Executive Director fees 
were below the market median. Accordingly, following the approval of the Chairman and the Executive Directors, the Non-
Executive Director fee was increased to £50,000. In addition, the Non-Executive Directors receive fees in respect of chairing 
and serving on the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Committees. 
All Non-Executive Directors’ conditions of appointment provide for a 1 month period of notice within the intended term of 
1 year. The appointment may be renewed by mutual agreement for further periods. 
With effect from 1 January 2011, no Non-Executive Director has participated, or will participate, in bonus, share option or 
pension arrangements.  57 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Directors’ remuneration and interests 
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the following sections a) to d).
a) Emoluments of Directors excluding pension contributions for the 15 months ended 31 December 2011
Base 
salaries and 
fees 
£’000
Incentive 
based 
salaries 
£’000
Bonuses
3
 
£’000
Beneﬁts in 
kind and 
taxable 
expenses 
£’000
15 months 
to 31 
December 
2011 
Total 
£’000
12 months 
to 30 
September 
2010 
Total 
£’000
Executive Directors
D. A. Lenigas 625 306 296 – 1,227 792
G. T.  White 625 271 250 90 1,236 707
D. J.  Armstrong 375 166 179 55 775 457
E. K. Priestley 405 – 45 19 469 364
2,030 743 770 164 3,707 2,320
Non Executive Directors 
Ambassador F. D. Cook 73 – 33 – 106 63
J. M. Ellis 69 – 13 3 85 46
K. Morzaria 69––– 69 –
Sir R. Needham (appointed 26 April 2011) 48––– 48 –
D.Strang (resigned 30 June 2010) ––––– 42
2,289 743 816 167 4,015 2,471
1. Beneﬁts in kind include company cars and medical expenses insurance. Taxable expenses relate to allowances paid in lieu of company cars.
2. For Sir Richard Needham, Ambassador Frances Cook, Jean Ellis and Kiran Morzaria, their basic annual fee of £50,000 from the date of admission to the main list is 
increased by an additional £7,500 annual fee for each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees they serve on. In addition, Ambassador Frances 
Cook, Sir Richard Needham and Jean Ellis receive a further £5,000 annual fee for serving on the Corporate Responsibility Committee. 
3. The bonuses paid in the period related to the results for the 12 month period ended 30 September 2010. Discretionary bonuses for the period ended 31 December 
2011 have yet to be determined. 
b) Directors’ pensions 
Company contributions to deﬁned contribution plans: 
15 months to  
31 December 2011 
£’000
12 months to  
30 September 2010 
£’000
G. T. White 200 213
c) Directors’ total remuneration
15 months to  
31 December 2011 
£’000
12 months to  
30 September 2010 
£’000
Aggregate emoluments 4,015 2,471
Company pension contributions to deﬁned contribution scheme 200 213
Gains made on exercise of share options (see note 26 to the ﬁnancial statements) 578 –
 4,793 2,684
d) Directors’ interests in options to purchase shares 
Details of the interests of the Directors in the Lonrho Unapproved Share Option Plan are contained on page 60. 
e) Directors’ interests
Details of the beneﬁcial interests of the Directors or their families in the ordinary shares of the Company are contained on page 59. 
Future reviews 
Opus Executive Partners are advising the Committee on various aspects of the Chairman’s and Executive Directors’ 
remuneration. 
I hope that you will support the advisory vote on the 2011 Directors’ Remuneration Report which will be put forward at the next 
Annual General Meeting. 
 
Ambassador Frances Cook 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
3 April 2012 
Company number: 2805337 58 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Report of the Directors
For the 15 month period ended 31 December 2011
The Directors of Lonrho Plc are pleased to submit their report, together with the audited ﬁnancial statements for the 15 month 
period ended 31 December 2011.
The Company number is 2805337.
Principal activities
The Group has a diverse portfolio of investments across Sub-Saharan Africa in ﬁve key sectors: agribusiness, transportation, 
infrastructure, hotels and support services. In order to create maximum value for shareholders the management is 
implementing the investment strategy outlined earlier. 
Business review and development
The period has seen strong growth in the existing businesses and Lonrho made several complementary strategic acquisitions to 
further develop its core divisions. The Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement and the Operating Review 
contain information on developments during the period and key potential future developments.
The requirements of the enhanced business review in relation to strategy and progress thereon are contained in the Chairman’s 
Statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement and the Operating Review. Information on the principal risks and 
uncertainties relating to the Group’s businesses is contained on pages 10 to 15.
Going Concern 
The ﬁnancial position of the Group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial 
Review on pages 32 to 37.
 
Although the current economic conditions create uncertainty, the Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of 
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, together with mitigation actions that are within management’s control, 
show that the Group is expected to be able to operate within the level and covenant conditions of its debt facilities.
 
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing 
these ﬁnancial statements.
Key Performance Indicators 
The Group has a number of key performance indicators which are measured at different tiers in the operation. At the divisional 
level the Group tracks revenue and  gross margin against budget. The Group uses a number of speciﬁc, non-ﬁnancial, key 
performance indicators at individual business levels. For example, passenger numbers and yield for Fly540, occupancy levels at 
Hotel Cardoso, and ship movements at Luba Freeport.
Further information is contained on pages 8 to 9.
The Directors wish to mitigate risk by proper evaluation of every investment that is made and follow a risk analysis reporting 
procedure, which links into the Company’s Corporate Governance procedures. The Group is continuing to strengthen its 
management team by the recruitment of highly experienced individuals.
Further information concerning the Group’s objectives, policies and process for managing its capital and ﬁnancial risk 
management objectives; details of its ﬁnancial instruments ; and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in note 
29 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Results and dividend 
The Group and Company results for the 15 month period ended 31 December 2011 are set out on page 64.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend (2010: £nil).
The Company has not paid dividends since 1999. During 2012 the Directors intend to adopt a progressive dividend policy once 
the Company has sufficient distributable reserves and has achieved a level of sustained proﬁtability provided it is commercially 
prudent, bearing in mind the Group’s ﬁnancial position, underlying earnings and cash ﬂows, the resources required for the 
Group’s development and the prevailing market outlook.
Directors
The following Directors have held office during the year: Mr D.A. Lenigas (appointed 21 December 2005); Mr G.T. White 
(appointed 5 October 2007); Mr D.J. Armstrong (appointed 1 December 2008); Ms E.K. Priestley (appointed 24 February 2006); 
Ambassador F.D. Cook (appointed 23 October 2007); Mrs J.M. Ellis (appointed Finance Director 1 June 2007 and became a 
Non-Executive Director 1 December 2008); Mr K.C. Morzaria (appointed 28 September 2010) and Sir Richard Needham 
(appointed 26 April 2011). 59 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
At the next Annual General Meeting, Mr D.Armstrong and Ms. E. Priestley will retire by rotation. Sir Richard Needham, having 
been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, will also retire. Being eligible, they will all offer themselves for re-
election. Biographical details of all Directors are set out on pages 42 and 43.
Directors’ share interests
The Directors at the period end are set out below. All Directors served throughout the period unless otherwise indicated.
At 31.12.11 
No. of shares 
At 01.10.10 
(or date of 
appointment, 
if later) 
No. of shares 
D. A. Lenigas 3,750,000 250,000
G. T. White 200,000 200,000
D. J. Armstrong 200,000 200,000
E. K. Priestley 40,712 40,712
Ambassador F. D. Cook 316,252 Nil 
J. M. Ellis 4,000 4,000
K. C. Morzaria Nil Nil 
Sir Richard Needham (appointed 26 April 2011) 222,550 Nil 
All of the above interests are recorded in the Company’s Register of Directors’ Share and Debenture Interests. No Director has a 
beneﬁcial interest in the shares or debentures of any of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings. 
Following the Firm Placing and Open Offer announced on 13 December 2011, the Directors have taken up in full their basic 
entitlements to subscribe for new ordinary shares at 10 pence per share under the Open Offer. 
In addition, David Lenigas, who agreed to subscribe for 10,000,000 new ordinary shares to be allocated subject to clawback to 
satisfy valid applications under the Open Offer, was allocated an additional 7,869,487 new ordinary shares at 10 pence per 
share. 
The table below shows the number of new ordinary shares subscribed by each Director, together with their resultant 
shareholding in the Company as of 4 January 2012. 
No. of shares 
subscribed 
At 04.01.12 
No. of shares 
D. A. Lenigas 8,181,987 11,931,987
G. T. White 16,666 216,666
D. J. Armstrong 16,666 216,666
E. K. Priestley 3,392 44,104
Ambassador F.D Cook 26,354 342,606
J. M. Ellis 333 4,333
K. C. Morzaria Nil Nil 
Sir Richard Needham 18,545 241,095 60 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Report of the Directors continued
For the 15 month period ended 31 December 2011
Share options
During the period, unapproved share options were held by Directors over ordinary shares, as set out below. These options are 
embodied in an individual contract between the Company and the individual and have been granted under The Lonrho Plc 
Unapproved Share Option Plan.
As at 
1.10.2010
Exercise 
price
Granted during 
the period
Exercised during 
the period
As at 
31 December 
2011 Exercise period
D.A. Lenigas 3,500,000 6.5p – 3,500,000 Nil Jan 2006 – March 2011
D.A. Lenigas 3,750,000 6.5p – – 3,750,000 April 2007 – April 2012
D.A. Lenigas 1,615,000 6.5p – – 1,615,000 July 2007 – July 2012
D.A. Lenigas 2,500,000 6.5p – – 2,500,000 Jan 2009 – Jan 2014
D.A. Lenigas 20,000,000 13.75p – – 20,000,000 April 2010 – March 2015
D.A. Lenigas – 18.4p 3.333,333 – 3,333,333 Aug 2012 – Aug 2016*
D.A. Lenigas – 22.0p 3.333,333 – 3,333,333 Aug 2013 – Aug 2016* 
D.A. Lenigas – 25.0p 3.333,334 – 3,333,334 Aug 2014 – Aug 2016* 
G.T. White 2,500,000 6.5p – – 2,500,000 April 2007 – April 2012
G.T. White 1,065,000 6.5p – – 1,065,000 July 2007 – July 2012
G.T. White 2,000,000 6.5p – – 2,000,000 Jan 2009 – Jan 2014
G.T. White 20,000,000 13.75p – – 20,000,000 April 2010 – March 2015
G.T. White – 18.4p 3.333,333 – 3,333,333 Aug 2012 – Aug 2016*
G.T. White – 22.0p 3.333,333 – 3,333,333 Aug 2013 – Aug 2016* 
G.T. White – 25.0p 3.333,334 – 3,333,334 Aug 2014 – Aug 2016* 
D.J. Armstrong 1,000,000 6.5p – – 1,000,000 Jan 2009 – Jan 2014
D.J. Armstrong 6,500,000 13.75p – – 6,500,000 April 2010 – March 2015
D.J. Armstrong – 18.4p 2.000,000 – 2,000,000 Aug 2012 – Aug 2016*
D.J. Armstrong – 22.0p 2.000,000 – 2,000,000 Aug 2013 – Aug 2016* 
D.J. Armstrong – 25.0p 2.000,000 – 2,000,000 Aug 2014 – Aug 2016* 
E.K. Priestley 1,250,000 6.5p – 1,250,000 Nil April 2006 – April 2011
E.K. Priestley 1,250,000 6.5p – – 1,250,000 April 2007 – April 2012
E.K. Priestley 1,065,000 6.5p – – 1,065,000 July 2007 – July 2012
E.K. Priestley 1,000,000 6.5p – – 1,000,000 Jan 2009 – Jan 2014
E.K. Priestley 1,000,000 13.75p – – 1,000,000 April 2010 – March 2015
F.D. Cook 500,000 6.5p – 500,000 Nil Jan 2009 – Jan 2014
J.M. Ellis 350,000 6.5p – – 350,000 July 2007 – July 2012
J.M. Ellis 500,000 6.5p – – 500,000 Jan 2009 – Jan 2014
* These options do not vest immediately but vest from 2012 to 2014.
Insurance
The Company has effected Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover for Group Directors.
Business Review  
The information that fulﬁls the requirements of the Business Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, and 
which should be treated as forming part of this report by reference, is included in the following sections of the annual report:
 Chairman’s Statement on pages 16 and 17. 
 Chief Executive’s Statement on pages 18 and 19. 
 Operating Review on pages 20 to 31. 
 Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 10 to 15. 
 Financial Review on pages 32 to 37. 
 Corporate responsibility on pages 38 to 41. 
 Corporate Governance Statement on pages 44 to 51. 61 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Substantial shareholdings
The Directors have been advised of the following shareholdings at 2 April 2012 in 3 per cent. or more of the Company’s issued 
share capital:
Number 
of shares
% of 
Issued Capital
Zesiger Capital Group LLC 142,214,001 9.07%
BlackRock, Inc. 129,244,183 8.24%
Mackenzie Financial Corp. 127,075,213 8.10%
Capital Group International, Inc. 89,841,247 5.73%
Oak Nominees Limited 78,221,479 4.99%
EP Cayman, Ltd, Eton Park Fund, L.P. & Eton Park Master Fund, L.P. 70,000,000 4.46%
Capital Research & Management Company 49,607,000 3.16%
Share capital and control 
The following information is given pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006. 
On 31 December 2011, there were 1,298,614,449 ordinary shares of 1 pence each in issue. There are no restrictions on transfer 
or limitations on the holding of the ordinary shares. None of the shares carries any special rights with regards to the control of 
the Company. There are no known arrangements under which ﬁnancial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the 
shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers and voting rights. 
As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with signiﬁcant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other than 
those noted above. 
The powers of the Directors are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. These include powers, subject to relevant 
legislation, to authorise the issue of the Company’s shares by the Company, subject to authority being given to the Directors by 
the shareholders in general meeting. 
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. Changes 
to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with legislation in force from time to time. 
Listings of ordinary shares 
On 26 April 2011, the Company transferred the listing of its ordinary share capital from AIM to the premium listing segment of 
the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and was admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s main market for listed 
securities. The Johannesburg Stock Exchange formally approved the transfer of the secondary listing of the Company from the 
Venture Capital Market to the AltX  (alternative exchange) of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange  with effect from the 
commencement of business on 17 May 2011. 
Post-balance sheet events 
On 4 January 2012 the Company issued 269,498,795 ordinary shares at 10 pence per share, raising gross proceeds of 
approximately £26.9m.
 
On 9 January 2012, the Company announced that it had completed a share purchase agreement to acquire 100% of LonAgro 
Tanzania Limited for US$1.4m (£0.9m) and had also entered into a Memorandum of Understanding directly with John Deere to 
become the exclusive John Deere dealership in South Sudan.
 
On 1 February 2012, the Company announced that Lonrho Hotels had entered into a ten year management agreement for the 
450-room Grand Hotel Kinshasa in the capital of Democratic Republic of the Congo.
On 27 March 2012, the Company announced that e-Kwikbuild had won contracts totalling Rand 123m (£10.2m) for the supply 
and construction of 116 new schools for remote parts of the Eastern Cape of South Africa.
Share price performance
Between 1 October 2010 and 31 December 2011 the share price in London varied between a high of  19.75p and a low of 8.86p 
and in Johannesburg a high of Rand 2.10 and a low of Rand 1.20. At 31 December 2011 the mid-market price of the shares was 
9.3p in London and Rand 1.30 in Johannesburg. 
Political and charitable donations
No political or charitable donations, save for those disclosed on pages 38 to 41, have been made by the Group during the 
period. The Group is involved in a number of charitable projects through its subsidiaries and investments, details of which are 
set out on pages 38 to 41.
Payment to suppliers
The Group does not follow any code or standard with regard to the payment of its suppliers. The Group’s policy is to agree 
terms and conditions with suppliers in advance; payment is then made in accordance with the agreement provided the supplier 
has met the terms and conditions. Amounts due to suppliers at the balance sheet date are contained in note 27. 62 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Report of the Directors continued
For the 15 month period ended 31 December 2011
City Code on Takeovers and Mergers
The Panel on Takeovers and Mergers conﬁrmed that, at the date the Listing Particulars were issued in May 1998, Lonrho was 
subject to the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (the “Code”). The Directors believe that, so far as is practicable, they have 
operated and will continue to operate the Group so that it will continue to be subject to the Code.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc and to authorise the Directors to ﬁx their remuneration will be proposed at the next 
Annual General Meeting in accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the ﬁnancial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group and parent company ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under 
that law they are required to prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company ﬁnancial statements 
on the same basis. 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the ﬁnancial statements unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their proﬁt or loss for that period. In preparing each of 
the Group and parent company ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and 
 prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and parent 
company will continue in business.
 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Report of the Directors, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this  Report of the Directors conﬁrm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps 
that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s Auditors are aware of that information. 
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual report 
We conﬁrm to the best of our knowledge:
 the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of 
the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and 
 the information that is cross-referred from the Business Review section of the  Report of the Directors includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
J. Hughes
Company Secretary
3 April 2012  We have audited the financial statements of Lonrho Plc for the fifteen month period ended 31 December 2011 set out on pages
64 to 112. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 62 the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit,
and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at
31 December 2011 and of the group’s profit for the fifteen month period then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards
the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006; 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the financial statements; and
• information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 47 with respect to internal control and risk
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the
financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 58 in relation to going concern;
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 44 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
I K Bone
(Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL
3 April 2012
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 63
Independent Auditor’ s Report to the Members of
Lonrho Plc 15 months ended 31 December 2011 12 months ended 30 September 2010
(re-presented)
Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
operations operations Total operations operations Total
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 4, 5 188.4 0.2 188.6 107.4 0.4 107.8
Cost of sales 6 (137.2) (0.7) (137.9) (78.2) (1.1) (79.3)
GROSS PROFIT/(LOSS) 51.2 (0.5) 50.7 29.2 (0.7) 28.5
Gain arising on fair valuation of biological assets 6, 15 27.4 – 27.4 9.0 – 9.0
Other operating income 6
– Gains on acquisitions 15.8 – 15.8 –– –
– Other 2.2 – 2.2 3.6 – 3.6
Operating costs 6 (80.4) (0.6) (81.0) (44.7) (0.7) (45.4)
OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS) 16.2 (1.1) 15.1 (2.9) (1.4) (4.3)
Finance income 10 6.8 – 6.8 8.6 – 8.6
Finance expense 10 (16.2) – (16.2) (5.7) – (5.7)
NET FINANCE (EXPENSE)/INCOME (9.4) – (9.4) 2.9 – 2.9
NET OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS) 6.8 (1.1) 5.7 – (1.4) (1.4)
Share of results of associates 17 (5.9) – (5.9) 2.3 – 2.3
Share of results of joint ventures 17 –– – (0.4) – (0.4)
Gain on other investments 18 1.0 – 1.0 –– –
PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX 1.9 (1.1) 0.8 1.9 (1.4) 0.5
Income tax charge 11 (0.3) – (0.3) (0.7) – (0.7)
PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE PERIOD 1.6 (1.1) 0.5 1.2 (1.4) (0.2)
ATTRIBUTABLE TO:
Owners of the Company 23 7.1 (1.1) 6.0 1.7 (1.4) 0.3
Non-controlling interests 23 (5.5) – (5.5) (0.5) – (0.5)
PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE PERIOD 1.6 (1.1) 0.5 1.2 (1.4) (0.2)
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 12 0.58 (0.09) 0.49 0.16 (0.13) 0.03
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 12 0.57 (0.09) 0.48 0.16 (0.13) 0.03
The notes on pages 69-112 are an integral part of these financial statements.
64 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Consolidated income statement
For the 15 months ended 3 1 December 201 1 and 12 months ended 30 September 2010 Group Company
31 December 30 September 31 December 30 September
2011 2010 2011 2010
Notes £m £m £m £m
Foreign exchange translation differences 23 (0.2) (8.7) – –
Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 14 7.2 – – –
Total other comprehensive income for the period/year 7.0 (8.7) – –
Profit/(loss) for the period/year 0.5 (0.2) (17.3) (10.1)
Total comprehensive income 7.5 (8.9) (17.3) (10.1)
ATTRIBUTABLE TO:
Owners of the Company 9.7 (7.2) (17.3) (10.1)
Non-controlling interests (2.2) (1.7) – –
Total comprehensive income 7.5 (8.9) (17.3) (10.1)
The notes on pages 69-112 are an integral part of these financial statements.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 65
Consolidated and Company statements of
comprehensive income
For the 15 months ended 3 1 December 201 1 and 12 months ended 30 September 2010 2011 2010
Owners Non- Owners Non-
of the controlling of the controlling
Company interests Total Company interests Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
AT 1 OCTOBER 107.4 20.3 127.7 78.1 3.0 81.1
Profit/(loss) for the period 6.0 (5.5) 0.5 0.3 (0.5) (0.2)
Foreign exchange translation differences (0.5) 0.3 (0.2) (7.5) (1.2) (8.7)
Revaluation of property 4.2 3.0 7.2 –––
Total comprehensive income 9.7 (2.2) 7.5 (7.2) (1.7) (8.9)
Issue of shares 18.9 – 18.9 37.0 – 37.0
Share based payment charge 0.7 – 0.7 2.2 – 2.2
Costs associated with share issues (0.4) – (0.4) –––
Share options exercised 0.7 – 0.7 –––
Purchase of non-controlling interests ––– (5.5) (4.1) (9.6)
Subsidiaries acquired – 2.2 2.2 –––
Subsidiaries disposed – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.1) (0.1)
Non-controlling interests contribution ––– –25.525.5
Non-controlling interest dividends – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.4) (0.4)
Transfer from joint venture to subsidiary ––– –0.9 0.9
Transfer from non-controlling interest
(1)
––– 2.8 (2.8) –
Non-controlling interest put option (2.3) – (2.3) –––
Capital element of Convertible Bond 1.1 – 1.1 –––
Elimination of non-controlling interest
(2)
(0.6) 0.6 – –––
AT 31 DECEMBER/30 SEPTEMBER 135.2 20.5 155.7 107.4 20.3 127.7
The notes on pages 69-112 are an integral part of these financial statements.
The Company had total equity brought forward of £123.0m (2010: £93.9m), and during the period issued shares of £18.9m
(2010: £37.0m) with share options of £0.7m (2010: £2.2m), share options exercised of £0.7m (2010: £nil), costs associated with
share issues of £0.4m (2010: £nil) and a loss for the period of £17.3m (2010: £10.1m) resulting in total equity carried forward of
£125.6m (2010: £123.0m).
(1)
The transfer represents the amount of losses previously not allocated to non-controlling interests now allocated following additional capital contributions by the non-
controlling interests.
(2)
The elimination of non-controlling interest relates to removal of the interest of minority shareholders during the period.
66 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Consolidated and Company statement of
changes in equity
For the 15 months ended 3 1 December 201 1 and 12 months ended 30 September 2010 Group Company
31 December 30 September 31 December 30 September
2011 2010 2011 2010
Notes £m £m £m £m
ASSETS
Goodwill 13 17.8 15.5 – –
Other intangible assets 13 21.9 4.5 – –
Property, plant and equipment 14 166.2 109.2 0.4 0.4
Biological assets 15 33.8 9.0 – –
Investments in subsidiaries 16 – – 31.5 31.5
Investments in associates and joint ventures 17 6.9 10.3 5.9 7.7
Other investments 18 1.7 0.6 – –
Deferred tax 19 1.8 0.7 – –
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 250.1 149.8 37.8 39.6
Inventories 20 20.1 4.9 – –
Trade and other receivables 21 48.8 33.9 128.2 85.7
Cash at bank 22 12.7 7.8 – 0.6
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 81.6 46.6 128.2 86.3
TOTAL ASSETS 331.7 196.4 166.0 125.9
EQUITY
Share capital 23 13.0 11.7 13.0 11.7
Share premium account 23 138.2 138.0 138.2 138.0
Revaluation reserve 23 9.1 3.3 – –
Share option reserve 23 5.4 4.7 5.4 4.7
Translation reserve 23 (10.4) (8.7) – –
Other reserves 23 11.0 (5.5) 17.7 –
Retained earnings 23 (31.1) (36.1) (48.7) (31.4)
TOTAL EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE COMPANY 135.2 107.4 125.6 123.0
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS 23 20.5 20.3 – –
TOTAL EQUITY 155.7 127.7 125.6 123.0
LIABILITIES
Loans and borrowings 24 76.7 24.6 – 1.3
Deferred tax 19 4.1 3.0 – –
Obligations under finance leases 24 18.6 1.8 – –
Trade and other payables 27 16.1 2.5 38.0 0.4
TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 115.5 31.9 38.0 1.7
Bank overdraft 22, 24 12.2 3.9 0.7 –
Loans and borrowings 24 3.0 4.6 – –
Obligations under finance leases 24 4.9 1.0 – –
Trade and other payables 27 39.7 27.0 1.7 1.2
Tax liability 0.7 0.3 – –
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 60.5 36.8 2.4 1.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES 176.0 68.7 40.4 2.9
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 331.7 196.4 166.0 125.9
The notes on pages 69-112 are an integral part of these financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 3 April 2012. They were signed
on its behalf by:
David Lenigas
Director
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 67
Consolidated and Company statements of
financial position
As at 3 1 December 201 1 and 30 September 2010 Group Company
31 December 30 September 31 December 30 September
2011 2010 2011 2010
Notes £m £m £m £m
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
Profit/(loss) for the period 0.5 (0.2) (17.3) (10.1)
Adjustments 28 (16.4) (3.7) 4.9 2.4
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES BEFORE
MOVEMENTS IN WORKING CAPITAL (15.9) (3.9) (12.4) (7.7)
Change in inventories (14.3) (0.1) – –
Change in trade and other receivables (17.3) 1.0 (43.1) (16.1)
Change in trade and other payables 13.3 (10.4) 37.1 0.7
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS (34.2) (13.4) (18.4) (23.1)
Interest received 0.8 0.1 0.1 –
Interest paid (8.1) (2.3) – –
Interest element of finance lease rental payments (0.5) –––
Income tax paid (1.2) (0.4) – –
NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (43.2) (16.0) (18.3) (23.1)
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 2.2 0.4 – –
Investment in restricted cash (3.2) –––
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 7 (6.1) (3.2) – –
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (18.4) (6.8) (0.1) (0.5)
Acquisition of intangible assets 13 (5.1) – – –
Acquisition of associates and joint ventures (1.2) (0.1) (1.2) –
Acquisition of investment – (0.4) – –
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertaking 0.7 –––
NET CASH FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES (31.1) (10.1) (1.3) (0.5)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 23 18.9 23.6 18.9 23.6
Proceeds from the issue of share options 0.7 – 0.7 –
Loan advance 61.1 3.7 – 1.3
Repayment of borrowings (10.6) (2.1) (1.3) –
Payment of finance lease liabilities (3.7) (0.9) – –
Non-controlling interest dividends paid 0.2 (0.4) – –
NET CASH FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 66.6 23.9 18.3 24.9
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (7.7) (2.2) (1.3) 1.3
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 3.9 6.0 0.6 (0.7)
Foreign exchange movements 1.1 0.1 – –
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF THE PERIOD 22 (2.7) 3.9 (0.7) 0.6
The notes on pages 69-112 are an integral part of these financial statements.
68 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Consolidated and Company statements of cash flows
For the 15 months ended 3 1 December 201 1 and 12 months ended 30 September 2010 1. Reporting entity
Lonrho Plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial
statements of the Company for the 15 months period ended 31 December 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries
(together referred to as the “Group”) and the Group’s interest in associates and jointly controlled entities.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 3 April 2012.
The Company changed its financial year end from 30 September to 31 December annually with effect from the current financial
period ended 31 December 2011. Accordingly the current period information is for the 15 month period to 31 December 2011
with the comparatives for the year ended 30 September 2010.
2. Basis of preparation
Statement of compliance
Both the parent Company and the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (Adopted IFRS). On publishing the parent Company
financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in
section 408(4) of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of
these approved financial statements. The loss of the Company is disclosed in note 23 to the accounts.
Going concern
Although the current ongoing economic conditions create uncertainty, the Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of
reasonable possible changes in trading performance, together with mitigation actions that are within management’s control
show that the Group is expected to be able to operate within the level and covenant conditions of its debt facilities.
The Directors are carefully monitoring cash resources across the Group and have instigated a number of initiatives to ensure
funding will be available for planned projects. As described in Note 35, the Group raised £26.9m in January 2012 through the
placing of shares.
Following the capital raise and review of ongoing performance, and after making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Functional and presentation currency
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the Company’s functional currency. All financial information
presented has been rounded to the nearest £0.1m.
Basis of measurement
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain long leasehold
properties, and the recognition of available-for-sale financial assets at fair value.
The accounting policies set out in these financial statements have been applied consistently to all periods presented. A number
of new accounting standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for periods beginning on or after
1 October 2010 but do not have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
The following standards are issued but not yet effective, and have not been applied to these financial statements. The impact of
these is not expected to be material:
• Transfers of Financial Assets (Amendments to IFRS 7)
• Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets (Amendments to IAS 12)
• Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to IAS 1)
• IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements
• IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements
• IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
• IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement
• IAS 19: Employee Benefits (amended 2011)
• IAS 27: Separate Financial Statements (2011)
• IAS 28: Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (2011)
• IFRIC 20: Stripping Costs in the Production of a Surface Mine
• Government Loans (amendments to IAS 1)
• Disclosures: Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to IFRS 7)
• Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to IAS 32)
• IFRS 9: Financial Instruments
Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates
and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 69
Notes to the financial statements estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of
assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Estimates made by management in the application of Adopted IFRS that have significant effect on the financial statements with a
significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in the following notes:
• valuation of intangible assets and the level of negative goodwill arising and resulting in the gain on acquisitions
(notes 7 and 13)
• valuation of associates and joint ventures (note 17)
• valuation of biological assets (note 15)
Judgements made by management in the application of Adopted IFRS that have significant effect on the financial statements
are:
• the determination of the functional currencies of subsidiaries (note 3c)
• the determination of the accounting treatment in respect of the acquisition of investments as either associates, joint ventures
or subsidiaries (note 3(a))
• the determination whether certain transactions represent business combinations (note 7)
The timing of revenue recognition is not subject to significant uncertainty.
3. Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial
statements. The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
(a) Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Lonrho Plc and entities controlled by Lonrho Plc
(its subsidiaries). Control is achieved where Lonrho Plc (the Company) has the power to govern the financial and operating
policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The portion of a non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the fair values of the assets and
liabilities recognised. Subsequently, losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of the non-controlling interest in
the subsidiary’s equity are allocated against the interests of the Group where the non-controlling interest has a specfic
exemption from making an additional investment to cover the losses. Future profits attributable to the non-controlling interest
are not recognised until the unrecognised losses have been extinguished.
The results of entities acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Associates and Joint Ventures
An associate is an entity in which the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control over the financial and
operating policies. A joint venture is an entity where the Group jointly controls its financial and operating policy together with
other parties. Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially measured at cost as adjusted by post-
acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment of the individual investments,
from the date that significant influence commences until the date it ceases.
Losses of the associates in excess of the Group’s interest in those associates are not recognised except to the extent that the
Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of its investee. The Group’s investment
includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any impairment losses. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s
share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill. Any
deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at
the date of acquisition (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The Company records interests in associate and joint ventures initially at cost and thereafter at cost less provisions for
impairment.
70 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Basis of preparation (continued) Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is
measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and
contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition
date, except for non-current assets that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, which are recognised and
measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the
Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
When the excess is negative the identified fair values are reassessed to ensure that all acquired assets and liabilities have been
recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The interest of non-controlling interests in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the
net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Put options
Equity put options held by non-controlling interest holders are recognised as financial liabilities at the present value of amounts
payable on their exercise with a corresponding entry to other reserves. The Group continues to recognise non-controlling
interests in respect of these equity investments where the risks and rewards of ownership are deemed to have been retained by
the non-controlling interest holders.
(b) Intangible assets 
Goodwill
Positive goodwill arising on consolidation is recognised as an asset.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is subject to impairment reviews, at least annually, and measured at cost less accumulated
impairment losses. The recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date. Any impairment loss is recognised immediately
in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed when the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable
amount.
Any impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any
goodwill allocated to cash-generating units (groups of units) and then, to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit
(groups of units) on a pro rata basis.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to adopted IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP
amounts, after being tested for impairment at that date.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are measured initially at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The carrying amount is reduced by any provision for impairment where necessary.
On a business combination, as well as recording separable intangible assets already recognised in the statement of financial
position of the acquired entity at their fair value, identifiable intangible assets that are separable or arise from contractual or
other legal rights are also included in the acquisition statement of financial position at fair value.
Amortisation on intangible assets is charged on a straight line basis over their useful economic life, on the following basis:
Brands 5 years
Intellectual property 5 years
Licences Life of licence, not to exceed 5 years
Customer relationships 5 years – 10 years
Franchises 5 years
Contractual rights Life of right, not to exceed 20 years
Costs directly associated with the acquisition of the licenses required to provide commercial airline services are capitalised as
intangible assets in accordance with IAS38 within contractual rights. Costs are capitalised from the point that it is highly likely
the conditions to acquire the licence will be met and the commercial success of the airline operations is anticipated. Capitalised
costs excluded start up losses and any costs not directly attributable to obtaining the licence. These costs have been expensed
in prior years as they did not meet the conditions for capitalisation as intangible assets.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 71
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) (c) Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment
in which it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial
position of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the
presentational currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated
into the respective functional currency of the Group entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the reporting date. Non-monetary assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the
exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in
the income statement for the period. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair
value in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity are also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are
translated at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. Income and expense are translated at the average exchange rates
for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case weighted average rates are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified in equity and are transferred to the Group’s foreign currency translation
reserve within equity. Such translation is recognised as income or as expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
All foreign exchange gains or losses that are reflected in the income statement are presented within financing income or
expense.
(d) Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current taxation
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that
are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted
for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences
and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises
from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction
that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the investments in subsidiaries and associates,
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates substantially enacted at the reporting date, that apply in the period when the liability is
settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items
charged or credited to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
(e) Investments
The Group’s investments in equity securities that are not associates or joint ventures are classified as either available-for-sale
financial assets or assets at fair value through profit and loss. This designation is made on acquisition of individual investments.
For available for sale financial assets subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value or cost where fair value
cannot be assessed and changes therein, other than impairment losses (see below), are recognised directly in equity. When an
72 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) investment is de-recognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to the income statement. For assets at fair value
through profit and loss, subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and changes recognised within
gains/losses on other investments in the income statement.
Impairment
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect
on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying
amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate. An
impairment loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset is calculated by reference to its fair value.
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Any cumulative loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial
asset recognised previously in equity is transferred to the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was
recognised. For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in the income statement. For available-
for-sale financial assets that are equity securities, the reversal is recognised directly in equity.
(f) Property, plant and equipment
Long leasehold land and buildings are stated in the statement of financial position at their revalued amounts, being the fair value
at the date of revaluation, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Revaluations are performed with sufficient regularity such that the carrying amount does not differ materially from that which
would be determined using fair values at the reporting date.
Any revaluation increase arising on the revaluation of such land and buildings is credited to the revaluation reserve, except to the
extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease for the same asset previously recognised as an expense, in which case the increase
is credited to the income statement to the extent of the decrease previously charged. A decrease in carrying amount arising on
the revaluation of such land and building is charged as an expense to the extent that it exceeds the balance if any, held in the
revaluation reserve relating to a previous revaluation of that asset. Depreciation on revalued buildings is charged to the income
statement. On subsequent sale or retirement of a revalued property, the attributable revaluation surplus remaining is transferred
directly to retained earnings.
All other assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets (less estimated residual values updated annually), other
than long leasehold land, over their estimated useful lives, on the following basis:
Long leasehold land and buildings 2% of cost
Short leasehold land and buildings Over the term of the lease
Plant and machinery 10% of cost
Aircraft 5% – 6.67% of cost
Fixtures and fittings 15% – 25% of cost
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying
amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement for the period.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where
shorter, over the relevant lease term.
In respect of aircraft, subsequent costs incurred which lend enhancement to future periods such as long term scheduled
maintenance and major overhaul of aircraft and engines are capitalised and amortised over the length of the period benefiting
from those enhancements. All other costs relating to maintenance are charged to the income statement as incurred.
(g) Biological assets
Certain Group subsidiaries involved in the production of fresh produce recognize biological assets, which includes agricultural
produce due for harvest on fruit plantations. Under IAS41, Biological Assets are required to be included at fair value. Fair value is
determined by reference to the net present value of the biological assets at the reporting date. Biological assets are stated at fair
value less estimated point of sale costs, with any resultant gain or loss recognized in the income statement. The valuation of the
fruit plantations is based on discounted cashflow models whereby the fair value of the assets is calculated using cashflows for
continuous operations taking into account growth and yield potential.
When the fruit or other biological asset is harvested, it is transferred to inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 73
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) (h) Impairment of assets excluding goodwill, inventories and deferred tax assets
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the
asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment loss. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that
are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset
belongs. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been
adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount in which
case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount,
in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
(i) Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s statement of financial position when the Group becomes a
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits and other short term highly liquid investments that are
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts that
are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and
cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest rate method. Appropriate allowances for estimated recoverable amounts are recognised in the income
statement when there is objective evidence the asset is impaired.
Restricted cash
Restricted cash is cash at bank that is not freely available due to specific restrictions on its use (note 22). It is presented together
with Cash and cash equivalents as Cash at bank in the Statement of financial position.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
rate method.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain
future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital, which the Group defines as net
operating income divided by total shareholders’ equity, excluding minority interests.
(j) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and where applicable direct
expenditure and attributable overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and
74 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
(k) Share based payments
The Group provides benefits to certain employees, including senior executives, in the form of share based payments, whereby
employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (equity-settled transactions). The cost of these equity-
settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which
they are granted. The fair value is determined by using a Black-Scholes model. The dilutive effect, if any, of outstanding options
is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.
(l) Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value
being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
(m) Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised when paid and final dividends are recognised as liabilities in the period in which they are
approved by shareholders.
(n) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as
a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the
effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
(o) Revenue recognition
Revenue, for the other major segments not detailed below, is derived from the sale of goods and services and is measured at
the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value-added tax and other sales
taxes. A sale of goods and services is recognised when recovery of the consideration is probable, there is no continuing
management involvement with the goods and services and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
A sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer, the associated costs
and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably. This is when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer and the
goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
A sale of services is recognised when the service has been rendered.
Aircraft division
Revenue for the aircraft division comprises the invoiced value of airline services, net of passenger taxes, discounts, plus ancillary
revenue. Revenue from the sale of flight seats (passenger revenue) is recognised in the period in which the service is provided.
Unearned revenue represents flight seats sold but not yet flown and is included within deferred income.
Infrastructure division
Included within the infrastructures division is revenue from port activities. Revenue from port activities represents the income
earned from the provision of port facilities, which comprise cargo handling, towage, pilotage, conservancy services and port
related rental income. Such revenue is recorded once the service has been provided.
Agribusiness division
Revenue for the agribusiness division includes the invoice value of goods where the Group grows or takes ownership risk on the
relevant produce. Where the Group provides logistics or processing services without taking ownership risk on the relevant
produce, revenue comprises the invoiced value of the services provided. Revenue is recognised when the supply of the goods
or services are completed. There are no discounts or other arrangements that create uncertainty over the level of revenue
recognised.
Support services division
The Group supplies an immaterial amount of bundled IT services. When these occur revenue is allocated based on the fair
values of the respective services provided.
(p) Leases
Leases are classified according to the substance of the transaction. A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership to the lessee is classified as a finance lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 75
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) Finance leases
Finance leases are capitalised in the statement of financial position at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability is shown as a finance lease
obligation to the lessor. Leasing repayments comprise both a capital and a finance element. The finance element is written off to
the income statement so as to produce an approximately constant periodic rate of charge on the outstanding obligation.
Operating leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
(q) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, which are assets that
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets,
until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is
deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
(r) Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted loss per share is based upon the weighted average number of shares in issue throughout the year, adjusted for the
dilutive effect of potential ordinary shares. The potential dilutive ordinary shares in issue are employee share options and the
equity conversion element of the convertible bond.
(s) Reportable Segments
Segments are determined to be the lowest operational segment that the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) evaluates
the result of the segment and allocates resources to that segment. This is based on the Group’s internal organization and the
financial information provided to the CODM.
(t) Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale
Non-current assets (or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities) that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale
rather than through continuing use are classified as held for sale. Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets (or
components of a disposal group) are remeasured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter generally the
assets (or disposal group) are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. Any impairment loss
on a disposal group first is allocated to goodwill, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no
loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets and deferred tax assets, which continue to be measured in accordance with the
Group’s accounting policies. Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent gains or losses on
re-measurement are recognised in the income statement. Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
(u) Convertible bonds
Convertible bonds are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of a liability component and either an equity component
or an embedded derivative component.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non
convertible debt. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the
liability component represents the value of either an equity component or an embedded derivative component attributable to
the embedded option to convert the bonds into equity of the Group.
IAS 32 states that a derivative contract that will be settled by the entity receiving or delivering a fixed number of its own equity
instruments in exchange for a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset is an equity instrument. It also states that a
contract that will be settled by the entity delivering or receiving a fixed number of its own equity instruments in exchange for a
variable amount of cash or another financial asset is a financial asset or financial liability. For the purposes of the consolidated
financial statements, when making the assessment of whether a convertible bond, when exercised, gives rise to the exchange of
a fixed or variable amount of cash, or other financial asset, the functional currency of the parent company relative to the
currency denomination of the bonds is considered in addition to other features within the bond.
For convertible bonds issued by the Group where there is a difference between the currency of the bond and the functional
currency of the issuer, the embedded option to convert the bonds is recorded as a derivative liability because it is not a contract
to exchange a fixed number of shares for a fixed amount of bonds. The embedded derivative liability component is separately
identified and measured at fair value through profit or loss. For convertible bonds issued by the Group where the currency of the
bond and the functional currency of the issuer are the same, i.e. where on conversion of the bonds a fixed number of shares is
exchanged for a fixed amount of bonds, the value of the embedded option to convert the bonds is recorded within equity on
initial recognition.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and embedded option components of the convertible bonds (recorded as
equity or as a derivative liability) based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
76 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-
convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument. This interest expense, recognised in the income statement, is
calculated using the effective interest method, i.e. the difference between the interest expense on the liability component and
the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bond.
4. Segment reporting
The “Chief Operating Decision Maker” (CODM) is deemed to be the Executive Committee who monitor the results of the
business segments to assess performance and make decisions about the allocation of revenues. Segment performance is
evaluated on both revenue and operating profit/(loss).
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that are allocated on a
reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets and expenses.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used
for more than one period.
There is no inter-segment revenue.
Business segments
The Group has five continuing reportable segments which are organized around the basis of products and services which they
provide:
• Agribusiness
• Infrastructure
• Transportation
• Support services
• Hotels
The Group has not aggregated any operating segment in arriving at this analysis.
Geographical analysis
All of the segments operate in various parts of Africa, Europe and Americas.
Business segments
15 months ended 31 December 2011
Consolidated
Support continuing Discontinuing
Agribusiness Infrastructure Transportation services Hotels operations operation
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
EXTERNAL REVENUE 94.5 21.8 35.5 25.1 11.5 188.4 0.2
Segment result 35.0 0.7 (9.9) 0.2 3.3 29.3 (1.1)
Unallocated expenses (13.1) –
OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS) 16.2 (1.1)
Net finance (expense)/income (2.9) (0.8) (1.8) 0.8 (0.2) (4.9) –
Unallocated net finance expense (4.5) –
NET OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS) 6.8 (1.1)
Share of results of associates (5.9) –
Gain on investments 1.0 –
Income tax charge (0.3) –
PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE PERIOD 1.6 (1.1)
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 77
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) Business segments
12 months ended 30 September 2010
Consolidated
Support continuing Discontinuing
Agribusiness Infrastructure Transportation services Hotels operations operation
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
EXTERNAL REVENUE 55.3 14.0 21.1 11.1 5.9 107.4 0.4
Segment result 7.9 4.1 (6.2) 0.1 0.2 6.1 (1.4)
Unallocated expenses (9.0) –
OPERATING LOSS (2.9) (1.4)
Net finance (expense)/income (1.7) (1.0) (0.7) 0.1 (0.8) (4.1) –
Unallocated net finance expense 7.0 –
NET OPERATING LOSS – (1.4)
Share of results of associate 2.3 –
Share of results of joint venture (0.4) –
Income tax expense (0.7) –
PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR 1.2 (1.4)
31 December 2011
Consolidated
Support continuing Discontinuing
Agribusiness InfrastructureTransportation services Hotels Other operations operation
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment operating assets 112.2 82.1 53.0 15.3 46.4 – 309.0 0.3
Investment in associates/
joint ventures ––––– 6.9 6.9 –
Unallocated assets/interest 
bearing assets – – – – – 15.5 15.5 –
TOTAL ASSETS 112.2 82.1 53.0 15.3 46.4 22.4 331.4 0.3
Segment operating liabilities 47.1 13.2 39.5 9.0 16.9 – 125.7 0.1
Unallocated liabilities – – – – – 50.2 50.2 –
TOTAL LIABILITIES 47.1 13.2 39.5 9.0 16.9 50.2 175.9 0.1
Depreciation of segment assets 2.3 4.1 1.2 0.6 1.5 0.2 9.9 –
Amortisation of segment assets 1.0 0.1 0.6 0.4 – – 2.1 –
Capital expenditure 6.4 4.7 30.9 0.8 0.5 0.1 43.4 –
30 September 2010
Consolidated
Support continuing Discontinuing
Agribusiness InfrastructureTransportation services Hotels Other operations operation
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment operating assets 51.1 82.9 16.1 3.9 23.3 – 177.3 0.3
Investment in associates/
joint ventures – – – – – 10.3 10.3 –
Unallocated assets/interest 
bearing assets – – – – – 8.5 8.5 –
TOTAL ASSETS 51.1 82.9 16.1 3.9 23.3 18.8 196.1 0.3
Segment operating liabilities 28.8 14.5 6.6 1.2 9.9 – 61.0 0.8
Unallocated liabilities – – – – – 6.9 6.9 –
TOTAL LIABILITIES 28.8 14.5 6.6 1.2 9.9 6.9 67.9 0.8
Depreciation of segment assets 1.5 3.0 0.6 0.1 0.6 0.1 5.9 –
Amortisation of segment assets 0.5 – 0.1 0.2 – – 0.8 –
Capital expenditure 2.9 3.7 0.8 – 1.4 0.3 9.1 –
78 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
4. Segment reporting (continued) Geographical analysis
15 months ended 31 December 2011
Consolidated
Southern East West Central continuing Discontinuing
Africa Africa Africa Africa Europe Americas operations operation
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue by location of 
external customers 100.3 36.5 16.2 10.0 19.0 6.4 188.4 0.2
Revenue by location of assets 128.2 35.9 14.7 8.9 0.7 – 188.4 0.2
Net assets/(liabilities) 66.4 10.7 65.1 20.3 (7.0) – 155.5 0.2
Capital expenditure 7.7 30.3 4.9 0.3 0.2 – 43.4 –
12 months ended 30 September 2010
Consolidated
Southern East West continuing Discontinuing
Africa Africa Africa Europe Americas operations operation
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue by location of external customers 61.1 21.1 11.9 11.4 1.9 107.4 0.4
Revenue by location of assets 73.9 21.1 11.9 0.5 – 107.4 0.4
Net assets/(liabilities) 34.2 8.7 74.2 11.1 – 128.2 (0.5)
Capital expenditure 2.4 0.2 6.2 0.3 – 9.1 –
5. Revenue
Continuing operations Discontinued operation Total
15 months 12 months 15 months 12 months 15 months 12 months
ended 31 ended 30 ended 31 ended 30 ended 31 ended 30
December September December September December September
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Sale of goods 52.1 17.0 – – 52.1 17.0
Services 136.3 90.4 0.2 0.4 136.5 90.8
188.4 107.4 0.2 0.4 188.6 107.8
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 79
Notes to the financial statements continued
4. Segment reporting (continued) 6. Group net operating costs
15 months 12 months
ended 31 ended 30
December September
2011 2010
£m £m
Cost of sales 137.9 79.3
Operating costs 81.0 45.4
Gain arising on fair valuation of biological assets (note 15)* (27.4) (9.0)
Other operating income (18.0) (3.6)
NET OPERATING COSTS 173.5 112.1
Administrative expenses include management related overheads for operations and head office.
INCLUDED IN NET OPERATING COSTS ABOVE ARE:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9.9 5.9
Amortisation of intangible assets (other than goodwill) 2.1 0.8
Share based payments (notes 23 and 26) 0.7 2.2
Operating lease rentals:
– Land and buildings 1.7 1.7
– Plant and machinery – 0.1
– Other 6.0 1.8
Staff costs (note 9) 41.4 21.8
Legal fees and listing costs 2.8 2.7
Gain on acquisition – ATdm (note 7)* (4.0) –
Gain on acquisition – Home Farms (note 7)* (11.8) –
Acquisition costs 0.5 0.2
Impairment of trade receivables 0.5 0.6
Impairment of other investments 0.4 0.4
Profit on disposal of subsidiary (0.5) –
Included in the current period result of the transportation segment are start up costs of £8.1m.
* In accordance with the requirements of IAS 1, the Directors have presented movements in the fair value of biological assets and gains arising on acquisition as separate
items on the face of the income statement to provide full visibility of these items.
Auditors remuneration
15 months 12 months
ended 31 ended 30
December September
2011 2010
£m £m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.1 0.2
For the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.3
Total audit fees 0.5 0.5
Other fees payable to the Company’s auditors * 0.8 0.1
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditors 1.3 0.6
* Other fees payable: other fees relating to listing and share issues during the period.
80 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued 7. Acquisition of subsidiaries
7a Acquisition of subsidiaries in the current period
AFEX
With effect from 1 January 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Global Horizons Ltd a company
registered in the Isle of Man (which via subsidiaries in Kenya and South Sudan trades as AFEX) for an initial consideration of
US$3m (£1.9m). Further payments of up to US$5m (£3.1m) will be payable over two years based on an EBIT related earn-out
formula. AFEX’s main focus of current operations is in supplying secure accommodation in Juba in the Republic of South Sudan.
This infrastructure is in great demand from corporate clients, NGO’s, and Government Aid Agencies working in the Republic of
South Sudan.
The transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the net assets at 1 January
2011 is set out below:
Fair value Values
Pre acquisition adjustment recognised on
carrying value on acquisition acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 2.9 – 2.9
Inventory 0.1 – 0.1
Trade and other receivables 1.6 – 1.6
Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 – 0.6
Trade and other payables (3.3) 0.1 (3.2)
Deferred tax liability – (0.5) (0.5)
Intangible related to customer relationships – 2.3 2.3
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 1.9 1.9 3.8
Consideration paid 1.9
Contingent consideration 2.5
Goodwill on acquisition 0.6
The transaction costs incurred to acquire the company were £0.1m and have been expensed in operating costs in the income
statement.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of AFEX is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the distribution of the company’s
services to new customers and the value attributed to the skills and experience of the acquired work force.
AFEX contributed £8.4m to the Group’s revenue and £0.7m profit to the Group’s profit before tax for the period between the
date of acquisition and the reporting date.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 81
Notes to the financial statements continued FISH ON LINE (PTY) LIMITED
With effect from 1 June 2011, the Group acquired 51% of the issued share capital of Fish On Line (Pty) Limited for an initial
consideration of £0.3m.
Pursuant to the share purchase agreement, the sellers have been granted a put option to sell their remaining 49% to Lonrho
three years after the signature date at a purchase price of 6x multiple of Fish On Line’s profit before tax for the 2014 financial
year end, which is capped at a maximum of South African Rand (ZAR) 35.0m (£3.0m).
The transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the net assets at 1 June 2011 is
set out below:
Fair value Values
Pre acquisition adjustment recognised on
carrying value on acquisition acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 0.1 – 0.1
Inventory 0.8 – 0.8
Trade and other receivables 1.2 – 1.2
Cash and cash equivalents (0.8) – (0.8)
Trade and other payables (0.7) – (0.7)
Loans and borrowings (0.2) – (0.2)
Intangible related to customer relationships – 0.1 0.1
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 0.4 0.1 0.5
Non-controlling interest share (0.2)
Consideration paid 0.3
Goodwill on acquisition –
The transaction costs incurred to acquire the company were £0.1m and have been expensed in operating costs in the income
statement. The transaction has been accounted using the present access method as the non-controlling interest is considered
to have an ongoing interest in the results of the company. The put option liability has been calculated at £2.3m allowing for the
effect of discounting. The corresponding entry has been recorded as a debit to other reserves.
Fish On Line (Pty) Limited contributed £5.8m to the Group’s revenue and £0.1m loss to the Group’s profit before tax for the
period between the date of acquisition and the reporting date.
82 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
7. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
7a Acquisition of subsidiaries in the current period (continued) GRINDROD PCA
With effect from 1 July 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the trading assets of South African based Grindrod PCA for a
consideration of ZAR 50m (£4.6m).
The transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the net assets at 1 July 2011 is
set out below:
Fair value Values
Pre acquisition adjustment recognised on
carrying value on acquisition acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 0.6 – 0.6
Trade and other receivables 5.4 – 5.4
Cash and cash equivalents 0.9 – 0.9
Trade and other payables (5.1) – (5.1)
Deferred tax liability – (0.3) (0.3)
Intangible related to customer relationships – 1.2 1.2
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 1.8 0.9 2.7
Consideration paid 4.6
Contingent consideration –
Goodwill on acquisition 1.9
The transaction costs incurred to acquire the company were £0.1m and have been expensed in operating costs in the income
statement.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Grindrod PCA is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the distribution of the
company’s services, and the experience and expertise of the acquired work force.
Grindrod PCA contributed £17.2m to the Group’s revenue and £0.2m profit to the Group’s profit before tax for the period
between the date of acquisition and the reporting date.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 83
Notes to the financial statements continued
7. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
7a Acquisition of subsidiaries in the current period (continued) 84 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
ALDEAMENTO TURISTICO DE MACUTI SARL “ATDM”
On 30 September 2011, the Group acquired 80% of the issued share capital of ATdM from Lonzim Plc for US$5.1m (£3.4m),
which will be settled in cash over the next 5 years. Pursuant to the share purchase agreement, Lonrho Hotels will also take
responsibility for liabilities up to US$2.7m (£1.7m), the fair value of which has been determined at £1.2m.
The transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the net assets at 30 September
2011 is set out below:
Fair value Values
Pre acquisition adjustment recognised on
carrying value on acquisition acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 4.5 6.1 10.6
Trade and other payables (0.6) – (0.6)
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 3.9 6.1 10.0
Non-controlling interest share (2.0)
Liabilities acquired not attributable to non-controlling interest 0.6
Deferred consideration 3.4
Gain on acquisition (4.0)
The transaction costs incurred to acquire the company were £0.1m and have been expensed in operating costs in the income
statement.
As a first phase Lonrho Hotels plans to refurbish existing property on the site to establish an easyHotel by Lonrho and provide
quality office space for key companies seeking to establish offices in Beira.
The negative goodwill arising on the acquisition of ATdM is attributable to the fair value of the property reflecting its current
development potential and arises as the vendor was unable to provide the necessary experience and funding required to exploit
the business fully and realise its fair value. The gain arising from negative goodwill of £4.0m is presented within operating
income within the income statement.
ATdM contributed £nil to the Group’s revenue and £nil profit to the Group’s profit before tax for the period between the date of
acquisition, and the reporting date.
7. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
7a Acquisition of subsidiaries in the current period (continued) HOME FARMS
On 31 August 2011 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Sportsgear Investments (Private) Limited, Burp Track
Investments (Private) Limited and Crosshairs Point (Private) Limited collectively known as Home Farms for a consideration of
US$60. Home Farms consists of 3 leased farms (20 year leases) and substantial leasehold buildings including a 58,000 square
feet agricultural packhouse and high care unit.
The transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the net assets at 31 August
2011 is set out below:
Fair value Values
Pre acquisition adjustment recognised on
carrying value on acquisition acquisition
£m £m £m
Intangible related to operating leases – 11.8 11.8
Inventory 0.1 – 0.1
Trade and other payables – (0.1) (0.1)
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 0.1 11.7 11.8
Consideration paid –
Contingent consideration –
Gain on acquisition (11.8)
The transaction costs incurred to acquire the company were £0.1m and have been expensed in operating costs in the income
statement.
The negative goodwill arising on the acquisition of Home Farms is attributable to the beneficial lease arrangements acquired in
respect of leasehold land and buildings. No fair value has been attributed to the work force or customer relationships acquired
as these were considered immaterial. Working capital assets and liabilities at date of transition remain with the vendors. The
negative goodwill arises as the vendors were unable to provide sufficient working capital to achieve the operations’ full potential
and did not have sufficient international experience to reach all potential markets.
The £11.8m benefit arising from the negative goodwill is presented within operating income within the income statement.
Home Farms contributed £1.0m to the Group’s revenue and £0.5m loss to the Group’s profit before tax for the period between
the date of acquisition and the reporting date.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 85
Notes to the financial statements continued
7. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
7a Acquisition of subsidiaries in the current period (continued) TRAK AUTO
On 8 April 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Trak Auto Lda for an initial consideration of US$2m
(£1.3m). Further payments of US$1m (£0.6m) a year for three years will be payable upon the meeting of growth targets. Trak
Auto Lda holds the exclusive John Deere and Komatsu dealership agreements for Mozambique and is involved in the sale and
after-sale service of these vehicles.
The transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the net assets at 8 April 2010
is set out below:
Values
Pre acquisition recognised on
carrying value acquisition
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2
Inventory 0.4 0.4
Trade and other receivables 0.7 0.7
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (0.1) (0.1)
Trade and other payables (0.8) (0.8)
Intangible related to franchise –1.7
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 0.4 2.1
Consideration paid 1.3
Contingent consideration 1.6
Goodwill on acquisition 0.8
The transaction costs incurred to acquire the company were £0.1m and have been expensed in the income statement.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Trak Auto Lda is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the distribution of the
company’s services and products to new customers.
Trak Auto Lda contributed £3.5m to revenue and £0.8m profit to the Group’s profit before tax for the period between the date of
acquisition and 30 September 2010.
The Group has not made any adjustment to the purchase accounting in the current period.
86 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
7. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
7b Acquisition of subsidiaries in the prior year OCEANFRESH
On 7 June 2010, the Group acquired 51.0% of the issued share capital of Oceanfresh Seafood (Pty) Limited for a consideration of
R3.8m (£0.3m) including R0.8m (£0.1m) related to the subscription of shares with the proceeds retained in Oceanfresh Seafood
(Pty) Limited. An additional working capital injection of R7.7m (£0.7m) was provided by way of an interest bearing loan.
Oceanfresh Seafood (Pty) Limited is a supplier of frozen fish and crustaceans from Mozambique with customers across South
Africa and also in the United States.
The transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the net assets at 7 June 2010
is set out below:
Values
Pre acquisition Subscription of recognised
carrying value shares recognised on acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 0.5 – 0.5
Inventory 0.9 – 0.9
Trade and other receivables 1.7 – 1.7
Deferred tax asset 0.3 – 0.3
Cash and cash equivalents (1.6) 0.1 (1.5)
Trade and other payables (2.4) – (2.4)
Intangible related to customer relationships – – 0.2
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (0.6) 0.1 (0.3)
Non-controlling interests 0.1
Consideration paid 0.3
Goodwill on acquisition 0.5
The transaction costs incurred to acquire the company were £0.1m and have been expensed in the income statement.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Oceanfresh Seafood (Pty) Limited is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the
distribution of the company’s services and products to new customers.
Oceanfresh Seafood (Pty) Limited contributed £2.3m to revenue and £0.2m loss to the Group’s profit before tax for the period
between the date of acquisition and 30 September 2010.
The Group has not made any adjustment to the purchase accounting in the current period.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 87
Notes to the financial statements continued
7. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
7b Acquisition of subsidiaries in the prior year (continued) 8. Discontinued operations 
FLY 540 Uganda
Following a review by the Board in December 2011, the Group decided not to continue to support air freight operations of Fly
540 Uganda Ltd, which consequently ceased trading. Costs of discontinuing the operation were less than £0.1m. The
comparatives have been represented accordingly.
15 months 12 months 
ended 31 ended 30
December September
2011 2010
£m £m
CASH FLOWS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATION
Net cash used in operating activities (1.7) (1.2)
Net cash from financing activities 1.9 0.8
NET MOVEMENT IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 0.2 (0.4)
9. Staff numbers and costs
The aggregate remuneration comprised (including Executive Directors):
Group Company
15 months 12 months 15 months 12 months
ended 31 ended 30 ended 31 ended 30
December September December September
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
Wages and salaries 39.4 20.8 5.6 3.5
Compulsory social security contributions 1.8 0.8 0.5 0.3
Share based payments 0.7 2.2 0.7 2.3
Pension costs 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
42.1 24.0 7.0 6.3
The average number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
Group Company
15 months 12 months 15 months 12 months
ended 31 ended 30 ended 31 ended 30
December September December September
2011 2010 2011 2010
Number Number Number Number
Infrastructure 234 209 – –
Agribusiness 1,634 732 – –
Transportation 521 405 – –
Support services 902 56 – –
Hotels 364 314 – –
Central 30 32 21 22
3,685 1,748 21 22
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS
Detailed disclosure of remuneration of Directors is given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
88 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued 10. Net finance income
15 months 12 months
ended ended
31 December 30 September
2011 2010
£m £m
Bank interest receivable 0.8 0.1
Foreign exchange gain 6.0 8.5
FINANCE INCOME 6.8 8.6
Loans repayable within five years and overdrafts (8.6) (2.1)
Foreign exchange loss (7.1) (3.4)
Finance leases (0.5) (0.2)
FINANCE EXPENSE (16.2) (5.7)
NET FINANCE (EXPENSE)/INCOME (9.4) 2.9
11. Income tax expense
15 months 12 months
ended ended
31 December 30 September
2011 2010
Recognised in the income statement £m £m
CURRENT TAX EXPENSE 
Current period 1.6 1.0
DEFERRED TAX
Credit for the period (1.3) (0.3)
TOTAL INCOME TAX EXPENSE IN THE INCOME STATEMENT 0.3 0.7
15 months 12 months
ended ended
31 December 30 September
2011 2010
Reconciliation of effective tax rate £m £m
Profit before tax 0.8 0.5
Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate 0.2 0.1
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (7.3) (1.1)
Reversal of provision against carrying value of associate 1.0 (0.9)
Net losses where no Group relief is available 10.7 4.7
Effect of tax losses utilised (1.5) (0.3)
Non taxable items (2.8) (1.8)
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE 0.3 0.7
UK Corporation tax is calculated at a rate of 26.8% (2010: 28%) of the estimated assessable loss for the year. Taxation for other
jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Recognised in other comprehensive income and equity
There is no material taxation effect arising on transactions recorded in other comprehensive income and equity.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 89
Notes to the financial statements continued 12. Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted profit per share is based on the following data:
2011 2010
£m £m
Profit for the purposes of basic earnings per share being net profit attributable to
equity holders of the parent 6.0 0.3
Profit for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 6.0 0.3
Number of shares (millions)
2011 2010
No. No.
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 1,236.1 1,017.1
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
– Share options 20.1 13.6
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share* 1,256.2 1,030.7
* The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding. The weighted average number of ordinary shares
outstanding during the period was considered in light of the Convertible Bond (note 29) issued in the period. The potential ordinary shares associated with the bond
issue are considered anti-dilutive as their conversion to ordinary shares would increase earnings per share from continuing operations.  The weighted average number
of ordinary shares has therefore not been adjusted in respect of the potential ordinary shares associated with the bond issue.
Earnings per share
2011 2010
Earnings per share 0.49p 0.03p
Diluted earnings per share 0.48p 0.03p
90 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued 13. Intangible assets
Development Customer Intellectual Contractual
Goodwill costs Franchises relationships Brands property rights Licences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
COST
Balance at 1 October 2009 14.8 – – 3.2 1.0 0.1 – 0.2 19.3
Acquired through business 
combinations 1.3 – 1.7 0.2 – – – – 3.2
BALANCE AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2010 16.1 – 1.7 3.4 1.0 0.1 – 0.2 22.5
Balance at 1 October 2010 16.1 – 1.7 3.4 1.0 0.1 – 0.2 22.5
Additions – 0.2 – – 0.4 – 4.5 – 5.1
Acquired through business 
combinations 2.5 – – 3.6 – – 11.8 – 17.9
Effect of movements in 
foreign rates (0.2) – – (0.1) – – (0.9) – (1.2)
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 18.4 0.2 1.7 6.9 1.4 0.1 15.4 0.2 44.3
AMORTISATION AND 
IMPAIRMENT LOSSES
Balance at 1 October 2009 0.6 – – 0.3 0.6 – – 0.2 1.7
Amortisation for the year – – 0.2 0.4 0.2 – – – 0.8
BALANCE AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2010 0.6 – 0.2 0.7 0.8 – – 0.2 2.5
Balance at 1 October 2010 0.6 – 0.2 0.7 0.8 – – 0.2 2.5
Amortisation for the period – – 0.3 0.7 0.3 0.1 0.7 – 2.1
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 0.6 – 0.5 1.4 1.1 0.1 0.7 0.2 4.6
CARRYING AMOUNTS
At 1 October 2009 14.2 – – 2.9 0.4 0.1 – – 17.6
AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2010 15.5 – 1.5 2.7 0.2 0.1 – – 20.0
At 1 October 2010 15.5 – 1.5 2.7 0.2 0.1 – – 20.0
AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 17.8 0.2 1.2 5.5 0.3 – 14.7 – 39.7
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 91
Notes to the financial statements continued Amortisation and impairment charge
The amortisation and impairment charge is recognised in the operating costs line of the income statement.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to
benefit from that business combination. Before recognition of impairment losses, the carrying amount of goodwill had been
allocated as follows:
2011 2010
Primary Reporting Segment CGU £m £m
AGRIBUSINESS Rollex (Pty) Limited 7.7 7.8
Trak Auto Lda 0.8 0.8
Oceanfresh Seafoods (Pty) Limited 0.5 0.5
Lonrho Logistics (Pty) Limited 1.9 –
10.9 9.1
INFRASTRUCTURE Luba Freeport Limited 3.4 3.5
KwikBuild Corporation Limited 2.8 2.8
6.2 6.3
TRANSPORTATION Five Forty Aviation Limited 0.1 0.1
0.1 0.1
SUPPORT SERVICES Swissta Holdings Limited 0.6 0.6
Global Horizons Limited 0.6 –
1.2 0.6
TOTAL 18.4 16.1
At 31 December 2011 accumulated impairment losses in respect of goodwill totalled £0.6m (2010: £0.6m) fully impairing the
goodwill related to Swissta Holdings Limited.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired
which include the current economic environment. The recoverable amounts are determined from value in use calculations. The
key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates, expected changes to selling
prices and direct costs during the periods considered.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money
and the risks specific to the units. The growth rates are based on management’s assessment of the markets in which the
businesses are operating and reflect known contracts and customer relationships combined with anticipated growth in markets
and market share. Industry growth forecasts are not always considered applicable as many of the businesses are operating in
non-established markets. Changes in the selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future
changes in the individual markets.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets included in the individual reporting
unit’s three year business plan which are approved by the Board. For Rollex (Pty) Limited, KwikBuild Corporation Limited, Trak
Auto Lda and Oceanfresh Seafoods (Pty) Limited, the Directors have not considered cashflow beyond a five year period in
determining value in use although these business are considered to have a continuing value beyond this period. The forecasts
used for these businesses are the three year plan approved by the Board with years 4 and 5 based on year 3 performance
escalated for growth of 10% for all companies. A similar approach has been taken for entities acquired in the period (Global
Horizons Limited and Lonrho Logistics (Pty) Limited). For Luba Freeport Limited, reflecting the significant capital investments in
the project and the length of the remaining operating concession (17 years), the Directors have extended the 3 year forecast
approved by the Board to reflect the remaining life of the concession using a 3.5% growth rate over this period in determining
value in use. The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast cash flows within Agribusiness are Rollex (Pty) Limited 12% (2010:
12%), Trak Auto Lda 12% (2010: 12%), Oceanfresh Seafoods (Pty) Limited 12% (2010: 12%), Lonrho Logistics (Pty) Limited 12%;
Infrastructure, Luba Freeport Limited 10% (2010: 10%) and KwikBuild Corporation Limited 20% (2010: 15%); Transportation, being
Five Forty Aviation Limited 12% (2010: 15%); and Support Services being Global Horizons Limited 12%. The 10% growth rate used
reflects the continued early stages of these operations.
Management carried out a range of sensitivity analysis on all the assumptions used for each business. There is no single factor
impacting the sensitivity of the CGU analysis, other than the continued growth in the core markets as noted. The results of this
analysis confirmed that there was sufficient headroom in the carrying value of goodwill for these entities. The Directors do not
consider that any reasonably possible scenario currently foreseen could result in goodwill impairment. Whilst risk exists in
relation to the growth rate assumed this is mitigated by the absence of a terminal value in the calculations. The discount rate
used reflects the approch to only include five years of cashflows despite the longer term nature of these businesses.
92 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
13. Intangible assets (continued) Estimates and judgements
The Directors believe that the estimates and judgments used in preparing these financial statements would not have a material
impact on the carrying values of the intangible assets described above. The Directors’ do not consider there to be any indicators
of impairment on the other intangible assets.
14. Property, plant and equipment
Long Short 
leasehold leasehold 
land and land and Plant and Fixtures and
buildings buildings machinery fittings Aircraft Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
COST
Balance at 1 October 2009 17.1 47.4 8.5 4.4 5.3 82.7
Additions 0.9 4.3 2.1 1.7 0.1 9.1
Business combinations – – 0.6 0.1 – 0.7
Additions due to joint venture becoming a subsidiary – 11.1 – 1.0 – 12.1
Non-controlling interest contribution 25.5 – – – – 25.5
Disposals (0.4) – (0.3) (0.1) – (0.8)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (2.2) 0.8 1.2 (1.1) 0.1 (1.2)
BALANCE AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2010 40.9 63.6 12.1 6.0 5.5 128.1
Balance at 1 October 2010 40.9 63.6 12.1 6.0 5.5 128.1
Additions 1.2 2.8 8.0 1.7 29.7 43.4
Business combinations 10.6 2.0 0.9 0.7 – 14.2
Revaluations 6.6 0.1 – – – 6.7
Disposals (0.2) – (0.8) (0.1) (2.1) (3.2)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 1.9 1.0 (0.4) 1.3 1.0 4.8
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 61.0 69.5 19.8 9.6 34.1 194.0
DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES
Balance at 1 October 2009 0.7 6.5 3.4 1.6 0.7 12.9
Depreciation charge for the year 0.1 2.7 2.0 0.8 0.3 5.9
Disposals – – (0.3) (0.1) – (0.4)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – 0.2 0.7 (0.4) – 0.5
BALANCE AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2010 0.8 9.4 5.8 1.9 1.0 18.9
Balance at 1 October 2010 0.8 9.4 5.8 1.9 1.0 18.9
Depreciation charge for the period 0.2 4.2 3.1 1.6 0.8 9.9
Eliminated on revaluation (0.4) (0.1) – – – (0.5)
Disposals – – (0.7) – (0.3) (1.0)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 0.1 0.3 (0.3) 0.4 – 0.5
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 0.7 13.8 7.9 3.9 1.5 27.8
CARRYING AMOUNTS
At 1 October 2009 16.4 40.9 5.1 2.8 4.6 69.8
At 30 September 2010 40.1 54.2 6.3 4.1 4.5 109.2
At 1 October 2010 40.1 54.2 6.3 4.1 4.5 109.2
At 31 December 2011 60.3 55.7 11.9 5.7 32.6 166.2
In the current period, the Company had fixed assets brought forward with a net book value of £0.4m (2010: £nil). During the
period, the Company acquired fixed assets for £0.1m (2010: £0.5m). The depreciation charge for the period was £0.1m (2010:
£0.1m). The net book value as at 31 December 2011 was £0.4m (2010: £0.4m). These fixed assets relate to fixtures and fittings.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 93
Notes to the financial statements continued
13. Intangible assets (continued) Leased plant and machinery and aircraft
At 31 December 2011, the net carrying amount of leased assets were £25.1m (2010: £0.4m). See note 24 for details of the lease
obligations.
Long leasehold land and buildings
In 2010 £25.5m of long leasehold land and buildings were recognised in relation to the valuation of the land assigned under the
concession agreement from GEPetrol following the completion of Phase 1 development at Luba Freeport and capitalisation of
Lonrho loans. The value had not previously been recognised as assignment and availability of the land was effectively
established following Phase 1 development completion. Depreciation has not yet commenced on this asset as it has yet to be
put into service. Depreciation is expected during 2012.
Long leasehold land and buildings, relating to Sociedade Comercial Bytes & Pieces Limitada, were revalued in January 2009, by
Zambujo & Associados Lda, independent valuers, on the basis of market value. The valuations conform to International Valuation
Standards and were based on recent market transactions at arm’s length terms for similar properties. The Directors believe these
valuations remain appropriate and accordingly have not commissioned new valuations since January 2009.
Long leasehold land and buildings relating to Hotel Cardosa SARL and the Grand Karavia Hotel, were revalued in December
2011, by SC property Valuation Services CC, independent valuers, on the basis of the profit method of valuation. The valuations
conform to International Valuation Standards and were based on historical feasibilities and comparative market information
reflecting the current demand for hotels in the relevant cities. A revaluation gain of £7.2m has arisen on Hotel Cardosa. No gain
has been recorded on Grand Karavia as although the revaluation report indicated an uplift certain of the key assumptions were
considered by the Directors to be unsupported at this stage.
On 31 December 2011, had revalued long leasehold land and buildings been carried at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation, their carrying amount would be approximately £1.7m (2010: £1.9m). The revaluation surplus is disclosed in note 23.
The revaluation surplus arises in a subsidiary and cannot be distributed to the parent due its legal restrictions in the country of
incorporation.
Assets in the course of construction
Included within short leasehold land and buildings are assets in the course of construction totalling £1.6m (2010: £1.4m) which
are not depreciated until they are brought into use. Assets of £1.2m were brought into use in the period.
Capital commitments
Details of capital commitments in relation to property, plant and equipment are disclosed in note 31.
Borrowing costs
The amount of borrowing costs in respect of interest capitalised during the year was £nil (2010: £0.1m) and has been included
within long leasehold land and buildings.
15. Biological assets
Stone fruit orchards Blueberries Livestock Total
£m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 October 2010 8.9 – 0.1 9.0
Due to physical changes Phase 2 Stone fruit 6.7 – – 6.7
Phase 3 Stone fruit 14.8 – – 14.8
Due to physical changes – 0.9 – 0.9
Transfer to inventory (0.1) – – (0.1)
Changes in assumption: reduction in farming costs 4.5 – – 4.5
Discount unwinding Phase 1 Stone fruit 0.5 – – 0.5
Foreign exchange movements (2.5) – – (2.5)
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 32.8 0.9 0.1 33.8
The Group has a 200 hectare stone fruit orchard that grows a range of stone fruits (primarily peaches) and blueberries. The
orchard was planted in 3 Phases over the previous 3 years. The stone fruit trees take an average of 5 years to become fully
mature to give maximum yields and have on average 15 years of minimum productive life cycle thereafter. In the initial one to
two years of life the fair value of the plantation cycle is not considered material due to the risks attached to the start up
operations.
Under IAS41, Biological Assets are required to be included in fair value less costs to sell. Fair value less cost to sell is determined
by reference to the net present value of the biological asset at the reporting date. The calculation of the peaches and
blueberries is based upon the expected life of the trees and bushes and the anticipated yield of each tree and bush per year of
94 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Property, plant and equipment (continued) life. These yields are multiplied by the anticipated selling price of each variety of peach and blueberry based on current market
price. Market price can be volatile depending on the date of harvest which can affect the quality of the product. Management
has sought to use prices that are considered conservative with regards to long term market trends.
Associated farming costs and cost of sales of the farm are then deducted from the forecast income to give a net income for
each of the years of production of the peaches and blueberries. The net income is discounted at 14.86% (2010: 14.86%) being
the group weighted average cost of capital of 10.86% plus 4% as a farming industry risk factor.
The base currency for those calculations is the South African Rand as the market price for peaches and blueberries is
determined in that currency. Each year after initial recognition there will be a foreign exchange movement on the opening fair
value. The exchange rate used on 31 December 2011 is 12.5437 (Rand to the Pound) (2010: 11.0264).
As the biological asset matures the discount rate unwinds year on year to give a movement in the fair value. Fair value
movements in either direction are taken to the income statement for the relevant year and disclosed as other operating income
or other operating costs as required by IAS 41.
At the point of harvest, the harvested fruits will be transferred to inventory and accounted for under IAS 2 – Inventory. In the
current period the harvest amounted to £0.1m (2010: £nil).
The Group has used a third party to assist in its assessment of future yields for the biological assets.
In 2010 the life cycle for Phase 1 of the orchard had reached a point where 48 hectares of the orchard had developed and were
about to yield fruit. In the current period both Phase 2 and 3 have reached a point where the remaining 152 hectares of the
orchard already have or are ready to yield fruit. This has resulted in a fair value increase of £21.5m (2010: £8.9m).
As the orchard matures the associated costs of farming also become more viable and combined with savings generated from
improved efficiencies of scale and better use of technology this has resulted in a further increase in fair value of the total
orchard of £4.5m for the period (2010: £nil).
Over the life of the orchard, the fair value will be affected each year by the unwinding of the discount factors and this figure is
an increase in value of £0.5m for the current period (2010: £nil).
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of the asset amount to a loss of £2.5m, which is recognised directly in equity.
A 1% change in discount rate would affect the value by £2.1m. A 10% change in harvested yields would alter the valuation by
£4.1m. A 10% change in market prices would impact the valuation by £4.8m.
The Directors note that there is significant estimation and judgement in the valuation of the biological assets. There is also
significant operational risk associated with the orchard including flooding, frost impact and general loss of plantation and
harvest.
At 31 December 2011 stone fruit trees comprised approximately 181,000 peach trees and 12,700 blueberry bushes (2010:
108,000 peach trees and 11,000 blueberry bushes) which range from newly established trees to plantations that are 2 years old
and are producing fruit for current harvest.
At 31 December 2011 livestock comprised 153 cattle, of which nil (2010: 9) are less than one year old and considered to be
immature assets. During the year the Group did not sell any cattle.
16. Investments in subsidiaries
The investment by the Company in respect of Lonrho Africa (Holdings) Limited is stated at cost. This is subject to impairment
testing.
A list of principal subsidiaries is set out in note 34.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 95
Notes to the financial statements continued
15. Biological assets (continued) 17. Investments in associates and joint ventures
Group Company
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
At 1 October 10.3 9.2 7.7 7.7
Additions to associate 2.5 0.1 1.2 –
Transfer from joint venture to subsidiary
(1)
– (0.9) – –
Share of (loss) after taxation – joint ventures – (0.4) – –
Share of (loss) after taxation – associates (1.6) (1.1) – –
Provisions in the year (4.3) – (3.0) –
Write back of impairment – 3.4 – –
AT 31 DECEMBER/30 SEPTEMBER 6.9 10.3 5.9 7.7
Additions to associates represents the purchase of additional shares in Lonrho Mining Limited and LonZim Plc (see note 33).
(1) The transfer from joint venture to subsidiary in the prior period relates to control of Grand Karavia SPRL being obtained and the joint venture being classified as a
subsidiary. This reclassification resulted in fixed assets of £12.1m, loans of £10.4m, inventory of £0.2m, receivables of £0.3m and other creditors of £0.2m being
recognised.
The Group had the following investments in associates and joint ventures at the reporting date:
Ownership of
Country ordinary share capital
2011 2010
Associates
LonZim Plc+ Isle of Man 22.92% 24.61%
Lonrho Mining Limited Australia 13.96% 13.16%
+ Held directly by Lonrho Plc.
Lonrho Mining Limited
Lonrho Mining Limited is an associate due to the Group being able to exert significant influence over the company. Due to
additional share capital subscribed to in the period, the shareholding increased to 13.96%. The value of the Group’s investment
in Lonrho Mining Limited was impaired by £4.3m in the period to reflect the fall in value of the shares on the Australian
Securities Exchange. The impairment loss was recorded in Share of results of associates on the face of the Income Statement. At
30 September 2010, Lonrho Mining’s share price had risen and thus a gain of £3.4m was included in the prior period accounts.
The Directors consider the valuation as at 31 December 2011 reflects the long term outlook for the Group.
Summary financial information on associates and joint ventures (100%)
Revenues Loss
for the for the
Assets Liabilities Equity period period
£m £m £m £m £m
2011
Associates
LonZim Plc* 35.1 (4.2) 30.9 5.9 (6.6)
Lonrho Mining Limited 7.9 (0.2) 7.7 – (1.7)
Revenues Loss
for the for the
Assets Liabilities Equity year year
£m £m £m £m £m
2010
Associates
LonZim Plc* 36.3 (4.4) 31.9 4.9 (5.1)
Lonrho Mining Limited 4.7 (0.2) 4.5 – (1.7)
* The reported LonZim profit is adjusted to exclude amortisation of the element of the non-compete agreement not recognised in these accounts on formation of
LonZim.
96 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued LonZim Plc
The market value of the Group’s investment in LonZim Plc at 31 December 2011 was £2.4m (30 September 2010: £2.1m) with a
book value of £5.9m (30 September 2010: £5.9m). The entity’s year end is 31 August and it was incorporated on 25 October
2007. It was quoted on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange on 11 December 2007 whereby Lonrho Plc received 20%
of the shares in exchange for a non-compete agreement in Zimbabwe and the Beira corridor of Mozambique. At 3 April 2012,
the market value of the Group’s investment in LonZim Plc was £1.8m. The Directors do not believe there is any need for
impairment in the carrying value of the investment in LonZim Plc and note that the Group share of the net assets of the business
is £7.0m at 31 December 2011.
Following review of the carrying amount of the investment in the Company, the Directors decided on an impairment of £3.0m
to align the carrying value to that in the Group.
The shareholders of LonZim Plc approved the change of name of LonZim Plc, on 24 February 2012, to Cambria Africa Plc.
Grand Karavia SPRL
On 1 April 2010 Lonrho Plc obtained Board control of Grand Karavia SPRL and has changed the status of the investment from a
joint venture to a subsidiary.
Estimates and judgements
The Directors use estimates when assessing the carrying value of the Group’s investments in associates and joint ventures. In
assessing the carrying value of these investments, the Directors consider a number of sources of information including financial
forecasts prepared by management and market information where available. In considering impairment risks, the Directors have
regard to the quoted share price of Lonrho Mining Limited and LonZim Plc.
The Directors believe the estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial statements of associates and joint ventures
do not have a material impact on the carrying values of investments described above. Where associates and joint ventures do
not have 31 December as their year end the most recent audited financial statements, adjusted as appropriate to align with the
Lonrho year end, are used for consolidation purposes.
18. Other investments
2011 2010
£m £m
At 1 October 0.6 0.6
Acquired in year 0.1 0.4
Fair value gain 1.4 –
Impairment charge (0.4) (0.4)
AT 31 DECEMBER/30 SEPTEMBER 1.7 0.6
These investments present the Group with opportunity for return through dividend income and trading gains. They have no fixed
maturity or coupon rate. These investments are designated as at fair value through profit and loss. There are no investments
held as available for sale.
19. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Assets Liabilities
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
At 1 October 0.7 – 3.0 3.0
Recognised in period in respect of current trading losses 1.3 0.3 – –
On acquisition of subsidiary – 0.3 0.8 –
Exchange differences (0.2) 0.1 0.3 –
AT 31 DECEMBER/30 SEPTEMBER 1.8 0.7 4.1 3.0
The deferred tax liability at 1 October 2010 and 2009 related to the revaluation of property, plant and equipment.
There have been no deferred tax assets and liabilities off-set in the current or proceeding period.
The deferred tax asset relates to previous trading losses. The asset will be recoverable in future periods, which is supported by
the future cashflows of the business.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 97
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Investments in associates and joint ventures (continued) Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Additional deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of tax losses totalling £7.1m (2010: £6.5m) due to uncertainty
against the ability to deduct these losses against future profits.
20. Inventories
2011 2010
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 3.7 1.4
Finished goods 16.4 3.5
20.1 4.9
21. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
Amounts receivable from the sale of goods and services 28.3 16.8 – 0.4
Amounts due from associates 0.1 1.0 – –
Other receivables 12.7 10.5 0.1 0.2
Pre-payments and accrued income 7.7 5.6 0.8 0.2
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – – 127.3 84.9
48.8 33.9 128.2 85.7
The average credit period taken on sales of goods and services is 56 days (2010: 57 days). No interest is charged on receivables.
The Directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other receivables for the Group and Company approximates to their
fair value.
2011 2010
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts £m £m
At 1 October 0.9 0.3
Increase in allowance recognised in the income statement 0.5 0.6
Utilised (0.4) –
AT 31 DECEMBER/30 SEPTEMBER 1.0 0.9
Refer to note 29 for further information on credit risk management.
22. Cash at bank
2011 2010
£m £m
Bank balances 9.5 7.8
Bank overdrafts (12.2) (3.9)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS IN THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (2.7) 3.9
The Company had a bank overdraft of £0.7m at 31 December 2011 (2010: bank balance of £0.6m).
Included in Cash at bank of £12.7m as presented in the Statement of financial position is £3.2m (2010: £nil) subject to
restrictions on use that mean it is not freely available and accordingly does not represent cash and cash equivalents.
98 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
19. Deferred tax assets and liabilities (continued) 23. Capital and reserves
Group reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share Non-
Share Share Translation option Revaluation Retained Other controlling Total
capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings reserves Total interest equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2009 8.0 104.7 (2.0) 2.5 4.1 (39.2) – 78.1 3.0 81.1
Share capital issued 3.7 33.3 – – – – – 37.0 – 37.0
Share based payment charge – – – 2.2––– 2.2 – 2.2
Purchase of non-
controlling interests – – – – – – (5.5) (5.5) (4.1) (9.6)
Non-controlling interests 
contribution – – – ––––– 25.5 25.5
Non-controlling interest
dividends – – – ––––– (0.4) (0.4)
Profit/(loss) for the year – – – – – 0.3 – 0.3 (0.5) (0.2)
Transfer from joint venture 
to subsidiary – – – ––––– 0.9 0.9
Subsidiaries acquired – – – ––––– (0.1) (0.1)
Transfer between accounts – – – – – 2.8 – 2.8 (2.8) –
Foreign exchange
translation – – (6.7) – (0.8) – – (7.5) (1.2) (8.7)
AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2010 11.7 138.0 (8.7) 4.7 3.3 (36.1) (5.5) 107.4 20.3 127.7
At 1 October 2010 11.7 138.0 (8.7) 4.7 3.3 (36.1) (5.5) 107.4 20.3 127.7
Share capital issued 1.2 – – – – – 17.7 18.9 – 18.9
Share based payment charge – – – 0.7 – – – 0.7 – 0.7
Share options exercised 0.1 0.6 – – – – – 0.7 – 0.7
Costs associated with 
share issues – (0.4) – – – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Non-controlling interest
dividends – – – ––––– (0.2) (0.2)
Profit/(loss) for the period – – – – – 6.0 – 6.0 (5.5) 0.5
Subsidiaries acquired – – – ––––– 2.2 2.2
Subsidiaries disposed – – – ––––– (0.2) (0.2)
Transfer between 
accounts – – – – (0.1) 0.1––––
Revaluation – – – – 4.2 – – 4.2 3.0 7.2
Non-controlling interest
put option – – – – – – (2.3) (2.3) – (2.3)
Capital element of 
Convertible Bond – – – – – – 1.1 1.1 – 1.1
Elimination of non-
controlling interest – – – – – (0.6) – (0.6) 0.6 –
Foreign exchange
translation – – (1.7) – 1.7 (0.5) – (0.5) 0.3 (0.2)
AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 13.0 138.2 (10.4) 5.4 9.1 (31.1) 11.0 135.2 20.5 155.7
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 99
Notes to the financial statements continued 100 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
Share capital and share premium
Ordinary shares
In millions of 1p shares 2011 2010
On issue at 1 October 1,171.8 799.1
Issued for cash 118.0 251.2
Issued as part of acquisition – 120.3
Exercise of share options 8.8 1.2
ON ISSUE AT 31 DECEMBER/30 SEPTEMBER – FULLY PAID 1,298.6 1,171.8
On 20 May 2011, 118.0m new ordinary shares of 1p each were issued by a placing of shares.  The placing structure utilised
attracted merger relief under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, resulting in a credit to a merger reserve of £17.7m.
Subsequent internal transactions required to complete the placing structure have resulted in this becoming distributable.
The costs of other share issues of £0.4m have been deducted from the share premium account (2010: £1.4 m).
In the comparative period, the Company issued 120.3m shares at 10.98 pence in respect of the purchase of the non-controlling
interests in Fresh Direct Limited and Rollex (Pty) Limited. 8.8m shares (2010: 1.2m shares) were issued on the exercise of share
options in the current period.
The “purchase of non-controlling interests” in the comparative period relates to the purchase of the remaining minority
shareholdings in Rollex (Pty) Limited and Fresh Direct Limited.
The “non-controlling interests contribution” in the comparative period relates to the recognition of the value associated with the
long leasehold land and buildings provided by the non-controlling interests in Luba Freeport Limited as described in note 14.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per
share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
The Group also issued share options in 2011 (see note 26).
Company reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves
Share Share Share Other Retained
capital premium option reserve earnings Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2009 8.0 104.7 2.5 – (21.3) 93.9
Share capital issued 3.7 33.3 – – – 37.0
Equity settled transactions – – 2.2 – – 2.2
Loss for the period – – – – (10.1) (10.1)
AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2010 11.7 138.0 4.7 – (31.4) 123.0
At 1 October 2010 11.7 138.0 4.7 – (31.4) 123.0
Share capital issued 1.2 – – 17.7 – 18.9
Share options issued – – 0.7 – – 0.7
Share options exercised 0.1 0.6 – – – 0.7
Costs associated with share issues – (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Loss for the period – – – – (17.3) (17.3)
AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 13.0 138.2 5.4 17.7 (48.7) 125.6
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of
foreign operations since the conversion to Adopted IFRS on 1 October 2006.
Revaluation reserve
The revaluation reserve relates to property, plant and equipment (see note 14).
Share based payment reserve
The share based payment reserve comprises the charges arising from the calculation of the share based payments posted to the
income statement (see note 26).
23. Capital and reserves (continued) 24. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more
information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 29.
2011 2010
£m £m
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Finance lease liabilities 18.6 1.8
Unsecured bank loan 27.9 20.3
Convertible Bond 44.4 –
Shareholder loans 3.6 2.5
Other loans 0.8 1.8
95.3 26.4
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Unsecured bank loans 2.9 2.8
Current portion of finance lease liabilities 4.9 1.0
Other loans 0.1 1.8
Bank overdrafts 12.2 3.9
20.1 9.5
At the reporting date the Company had interest bearing loans of £nil (2010: £1.3m).
Finance leases
Finance lease liabilities are denominated in US dollars and are payable as follows:
2011 2010
Future Present value Future Present value
minimum of minimum minimum of minimum
lease lease lease lease
payments Interest payments payments Interest payments
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year 6.4 (1.5) 4.9 1.0 – 1.0
Between one and five years 13.6 (4.8) 8.8 1.9 (0.1) 1.8
More than 5 years 11.6 (1.8) 9.8 –––
31.6 (8.1) 23.5 2.9 (0.1) 2.8
Interest is payable on the leases within a range of 7.5% to 25% per annum. Under the terms of the lease agreements, no
contingent rents are payable.
Bank overdrafts
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and are unsecured. The currency profile is as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
South African Rand 5.7 3.1
Central African Franc 0.3 –
US Dollar 5.5 0.2
Sterling 0.7 0.6
12.2 3.9
The weighted average interest rates paid were 10% (2010: 12%).
The Directors consider the carrying amount of the Group’s loans and borrowings approximates their fair value.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 101
Notes to the financial statements continued 25. Shareholder loans
2011 2010
£m £m
Shareholder loans 3.6 2.5
3.6 2.5
26. Share options
At 31 December 2011 there were 119,510,000 (30 September 2010: 89,305,000) share options in issue with an average exercise
price of 11.09p (2010: 12.6p).
The following share options over 1p ordinary shares were granted under an Unapproved Share option scheme on 4 August 2011:
Market price per
Number of share at 
share options Exercise Period during date of
Name Date granted granted Price which exercisable modification
David Lenigas 04/08/2011 3,333,333 18.4p 04.08.2012–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Lenigas 04/08/2011 3,333,333 22p 04.08.2013–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Lenigas 04/08/2011 3,333,334 25p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Geoffrey White 04/08/2011 3,333,333 18.4p 04.08.2012–03.08.2016 16.75p
Geoffrey White 04/08/2011 3,333,333 22p 04.08.2013–03.08.2016 16.75p
Geoffrey White 04/08/2011 3,333,334 25p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Armstrong 04/08/2011 2,000,000 18.4p 04.08.2012–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Armstrong 04/08/2011 2,000,000 22p 04.08.2013–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Armstrong 04/08/2011 2,000,000 25p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Other employees and consultants 04/08/2011 2,000,000 18.4p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Other employees and consultants 04/08/2011 2,000,000 22p 04.08.2013–03.08.2016 16.75p
Other employees and consultants 04/08/2011 2,000,000 25p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Other employees and consultants 04/08/2011 7,000,000 18.4p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Total options issued in period 39,000,000
The following share options were outstanding as at 31 December 2011.
Market price per
Number of share at 
share options Exercise Period during date of
Name Date granted granted Price which exercisable modification
David Lenigas* 30.04.2007 3,750,000 6.5p 30.04.2007–29.04.2012 5.8p
Emma Priestley* 30.04.2007 1,250,000 6.5p 30.04.2007–29.04.2012 5.8p
Geoffrey White* 30.04.2007 2,500,000 6.5p 30.04.2007–29.04.2012 5.8p
Martin Horgan (former director) 30.04.2007 1,000,000 34.5p 30.04.2007–29.04.2012 32.5p
James Hughes* 30.04.2007 750,000 6.5p 30.04.2007–29.04.2012 5.8p
Gerard Holden (former director) 30.04.2007 3,500,000 34.5p 30.04.2007–29.04.2012 32.5p
Other employees and consultants 30.04.2007 290,000 34.5p 30.04.2007–29.04.2012 32.5p
Other employees and consultants 30.04.2007 975,000 6.5p 30.04.2007–29.04.2012 5.8p
David Lenigas* 20.07.2007 1,615,000 6.5p 20.07.2007–19.07.2012 5.8p
Emma Priestley* 20.07.2007 1,065,000 6.5p 20.07.2007–19.07.2012 5.8p
Geoffrey White* 20.07.2007 1,065,000 6.5p 20.07.2007–19.07.2012 5.8p
Martin Horgan (former director) 20.07.2007 200,000 44.0p 20.07.2007–19.07.2012 39.5p
James Hughes* 20.07.2007 350,000 6.5p 20.07.2007–19.07.2012 5.8p
Jean Ellis* 20.07.2007 350,000 6.5p 20.07.2007–19.07.2012 5.8p
102 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued Market price per
Number of share at 
share options Exercise Period during date of
Name Date granted granted Price which exercisable modification
Other employees and consultants 20.07.2007 100,000 44.0p 20.07.2007–19.07.2012 39.5p
David Lenigas 13.01.2009 2,500,000 6.5p 13.01.2009–12.01.2014 5.8p
Emma Priestley 13.01.2009 1,000,000 6.5p 13.01.2009–12.01.2014 5.8p
Geoffrey White 13.01.2009 2,000,000 6.5p 13.01.2009–12.01.2014 5.8p
Jean Ellis 13.01.2009 500,000 6.5p 13.01.2009–12.01.2014 5.8p
David Armstrong 13.01.2009 1,000,000 6.5p 13.01.2009–12.01.2014 5.8p
Other employees and consultants 13.01.2009 1,750,000 6.5p 13.01.2009–12.01.2014 5.8p
David Lenigas 01.04.2010 20,000,000 13.75p 01.04.2010–31.03.2015 12.5p
Geoffrey White 01.04.2010 20,000,000 13.75p 01.04.2010–31.03.2015 12.5p
David Armstrong 01.04.2010 6,500,000 13.75p 01.04.2010–31.03.2015 12.5p
Emma Priestley 01.04.2010 1,000,000 13.75p 01.04.2010–31.03.2015 12.5p
Other employees and consultants 01.04.2010 5,500,000 13.75p 01.04.2010–31.03.2015 12.5p
David Lenigas 04.08.2011 3,333,333 18.4p 04.08.2012–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Lenigas 04.08.2011 3,333,333 22p 04.08.2013–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Lenigas 04.08.2011 3,333,334 25p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Geoffrey White 04.08.2011 3,333,333 18.4p 04.08.2012–03.08.2016 16.75p
Geoffrey White 04.08.2011 3,333,333 22p 04.08.2013–03.08.2016 16.75p
Geoffrey White 04.08.2011 3,333,334 25p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Armstrong 04.08.2011 2,000,000 18.4p 04.08.2012–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Armstrong 04.08.2011 2,000,000 22p 04.08.2013–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Armstrong 04.08.2011 2,000,000 25p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Other employees and consultants 04.08.2011 2,000,000 18.4p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Other employees and consultants 04.08.2011 2,000,000 22p 04.08.2013–03.08.2016 16.75p
Other employees and consultants 04.08.2011 2,000,000 25p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Other employees and consultants 04.08.2011 7,000,000 18.4p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Total options in issue 119,510,000
* The exercise price was amended to 6.5p on 13 January 2009.
The following share options were exercised during the year.
Number of Share price Pre tax gain at 
share options at date of date of exercise
Name Date granted exercised exercise Exercise price Date of exercise £
David Lenigas 25.01.2006 3,500,000 17.5p 6.5p 16.02.2011 385,000
Frances Cook 13.01.2009 500,000 17.5p 6.5p 16.02.2011 55,000
Emma Priestley 11.04.2006 1,250,000 17.5p 6.5p 16.02.2011 137,500
James Hughes 25.01.2006 1,000,000 17.5p 6.5p 16.02.2011 110,000
Other employees and consultants 30.04.2007 545,000 18.0p 6.5p 20.11.2010 61,300
Other employees and consultants 20.07.2007 250,000 18.0p 6.5p 20.11.2010 28,750
Other employees and consultants 30.03.2006 1,500,000 18.0p 17.0p 20.11.2010 15,000
Other employees and consultants 13.01.2009 250,000 16.75p 6.5p 02.03.2011 25,625
8,795,000
The number of shares exercised in the table above is consistent with the number of share options granted at the respective
grant date. £0.7m was received from the exercise of the above share options.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 103
Notes to the financial statements continued
26. Share options (continued) In accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’ share options granted or re-priced during the year have been measured at
fair value at the date of grant or re-pricing and, in the case of re-priced options, the increase in the fair value compared with the
value of the original award at that date has been spread over the remaining vesting period. The fair value of the options granted
has been estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The estimated fair value of the options
granted on 4 August 2011 was £3.3m.
Date of Grant
04.08.2011 04.08.2011 04.08.2011
Share price 16.75p 16.75p 16.75p
Exercise price 18.4p 22.0p 25.0p
Expected volatility 48.0% 56.0% 85.0%
Expected life 5 years 5 years 5 years
Expected dividends 0.00 0.00 0.00
Risk-free interest rate 1.46% 1.46% 1.46%
Date of Grant
01.04.2010 13.01.2009 20.07.2007 30.04.2007
Share price 12.5p 5.8p 39.5p 32.5p
Exercise price 13.75p 6.5p 44.0p 34.5p
Expected volatility 59% 49.0% 45.3% 45.3%
Expected life 2.5 years 2.5 years 2.5 years 2.5 years
Expected dividends 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Risk-free interest rate 2.95% 5.50% 5.50% 5.50%
Volatility has been calculated by reference to the movement of the Company’s share price over the previous three and a half
years.
All share options issued prior to 1 October 2010, vest at the date of grant and the basis of settlement is in shares of the
Company.
27. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
Trade payables 30.0 17.9 0.8 0.8
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – – 38.0 0.4
Indirect tax and social security liabilities 0.5 0.6 0.1 0.1
Deferred income 1.4 1.5 – –
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 23.9 9.5 0.8 0.3
55.8 29.5 39.7 1.6
Group Company
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
Analysed as:
Current liabilities 39.7 27.0 1.7 1.2
Non-current liabilities 16.1 2.5 38.0 0.4
55.8 29.5 39.7 1.6
Trade payables principally comprise outstanding amounts for trade purchases and on-going costs. The average credit period
taken for trade purchases is 85 days (2010: 82 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other
payables approximates to their fair value.
104 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
26. Share options (continued) 28. Notes to the statements of cash flows
Group Company
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9.9 5.9 0.2 0.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.1 0.8 – –
Impairment of investment – 0.4 – –
Gains on investments (1.0) – – –
Foreign exchange loss/(gain) 1.1 (5.1) 1.0 –
Share based payment charge 0.7 2.3 0.7 2.3
Finance income (0.8) (0.1) (0.1) –
Finance expense 9.1 2.3 – –
Profit on disposal of subsidiary (0.5) – – –
Share of loss/(profit) of associates 5.9 (1.9) 3.0 –
Gain arising on fair valuation of biological assets (27.4) (9.0) – –
Gain on acquisitions (15.8) – – –
Income tax expense 0.3 0.7 0.1 –
ADJUSTMENTS TO PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE PERIOD (16.4) (3.7) 4.9 2.4
29. Financial instruments
The Company has no financial assets apart from the Other receivables and amounts owed by Group undertakings included
within note 21. The Company applies a similar approach to credit risk management as the Group. The Directors believe that
there are no significant credit risks to the Company at the reporting date.
Exposure to credit, liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and market risks arises in the normal course of the Group’s business.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and
processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital which the Directors consider to be the
components of Total Equity excluding minority interests. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these
consolidated financial statements. The Board of Directors have overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the
Group’s risk management framework.
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with credit worthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where
appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. No collateral is held at the reporting date. The
Group’s exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions
concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas. Ongoing
credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable. The Group does not have any significant credit
risk exposure to any single counterparty or any Group of counterparties having similar characteristics. The credit risk on liquid
funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, net of any allowances for losses, represents the
Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of the value of any collateral obtained. At the reporting date,
there were no significant credit risks. The maximum exposure to credit risk on customers at the reporting date was £41.1m being
the total of the carrying amount of financial assets, excluding equity investments as shown in the table below:
2011 2010
£m £m
Cash at bank 12.7 7.8
Trade receivables 28.3 16.8
Other receivables
(1)
12.8 11.5
53.8 36.1
(1) Other receivables includes other receivables of £12.7m (2010: £10.5m) and amounts due from associates of £0.1m (2010: £1.0m).
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 105
Notes to the financial statements continued The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
2011 2010
£m £m
Not due 15.6 9.3
Past due 0-30 days 5.3 2.9
Past due 31-60 days 2.2 1.4
More than 60 days past due 5.2 3.2
28.3 16.8
The movement on the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 21. The provision at the reporting date of £1.0m (2010:
£0.9m) relates to and is included within trade receivables more than 60 days past due. Other amounts past due are considered
collectible based on prior experience.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables by geographic region was:
2011 2010
£m £m
West Africa 1.9 1.3
Southern Africa 21.3 13.3
East Africa 4.4 1.8
Europe 0.7 0.4
28.3 16.8
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by type of counterparty:
2011 2010
£m £m
Wholesale customers 19.8 16.8
Retail customers 8.5 –
28.3 16.8
Liquidity risk management
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk
management framework for the management of the Group’s and Company’s short, medium and long term funding and liquidity
management requirements. The Group and Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities
and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of
financial assets and liabilities.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding the effect
of netting agreements:
2011
Carrying Contractual 1 year 1 to 2 to 5 years
amount cash flows or less <2 years <5 years and over
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts 12.2 12.2 12.2 – – –
Trade and other payables 55.8 55.8 39.6 13.7 2.5 –
Bank loans 30.8 37.2 6.3 11.0 19.9 –
Finance leases 23.5 31.6 6.4 5.0 8.6 11.6
Shareholder loans 3.6 3.8 0.1 0.3 0.2 3.2
Convertible Bond 44.4 57.1 3.2 3.2 50.7 –
Other loans 0.9 0.9 0.1 0.8 – –
171.2 198.6 67.9 34.0 81.9 14.8
106 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Financial instruments (continued) 2010
Carrying Contractual 1 year 1 to 2 to 5 years
amount cash flows or less <2 years <5 years and over
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts 3.9 3.9 3.9 – – –
Trade and other payables 29.5 29.5 27.0 2.5 – –
Bank loans 23.1 25.5 4.8 5.6 14.4 0.7
Finance leases 2.8 2.9 1.0 1.9 – –
Shareholder loans 2.5 2.5 2.5 – – –
Other loans 3.6 3.6 1.8 1.8 – –
65.4 67.9 41.0 11.8 14.4 0.7
Convertible Bond
On 15 October 2010, LAH Jersey Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, completed the offering
of US$70m 7.0% Guaranteed Convertible Bonds due 2015, convertible into preference shares of LAH Jersey Limited at
the holder’s option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by,
Lonrho plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of Lonrho plc at an exchange price of 15.59p and at fixed exchange rate at any
time from 1 November 2010 to 8 October 2015, or, if the Bonds shall have been called for redemption by LAH Jersey Limited
before 15 October 2015, the close of business on the day which is seven days before the date fixed for redemption. Each
US$10,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a US$10,000 paid-up value of preference shares of
LAH Jersey Limited. Upon a change of control the Bonds may be redeemed at the holder’s option at their early redemption
amount (together with accrued interest), to the date fixed for redemption.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the unsecured Convertible Bonds will be redeemed on 15 October 2015 at a
redemption price equivalent to 106.0031% of their principal amount.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the Convertible Bonds have been split between the debt component and an
embedded derivative component. This embedded derivative component represents the fair value of the equity conversion call
option held by the bondholders.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 8.25%. This includes a coupon interest rate
of 7.0% per annum. The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 7.0% convertible US Dollar Bonds 2015
at 31 December 2011 to be approximately £38.1m. This fair value has been determined by reference to the market price at
31 December 2011.
In respect of income-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective
interest rates at the reporting date and the periods in which they re-price.
2011
Effective
interest 1 year 1-2 2-5 5 years
rate Total or less years years and over
%£m£m£m£m£m
Cash at bank 1.0% 12.7 12.7 – – –
Loans 7.8% (35.3) (31.5) (0.3) (0.2) (3.3)
Finance lease liabilities 8.8% (23.5) (4.9) (5.0) (8.6) (5.0)
Convertible Bond 8.25% (44.4) – – (44.4) –
Bank overdrafts 9.5% (12.2) (12.2) – – –
(102.7) (35.9) (5.3) (53.2) (8.3)
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 107
Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Financial instruments (continued) 108 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
2010
Effective
interest 1 year 1-2 2-5 5 years
rate Total or less years years and over
%£m£m£m£m£m
Cash at bank 1.0% 7.8 7.8 – – –
Loans 8.6% (29.2) (8.4) (6.8) (13.3) (0.7)
Finance lease liabilities 9.2% (2.8) (1.0) (1.8) – –
Bank overdrafts 10.2% (3.9) (3.9) – – –
(28.1) (5.5) (8.6) (13.3) (0.7)
Foreign currency risk management
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other
than pounds sterling. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily, US Dollars, South African Rand, Mozambique Metical,
Kenyan Shilling, Central African Franc and the Euro.
The carrying amount of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities, and its total net
assets at the reporting date is as follows:
Monetary net assets Total net assets
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
U.S.Dollar (2.8) (10.0) 52.4 10.9
South African Rand 13.0 (6.5) (3.9) 10.0
Mozambique Metical 4.6 0.1 26.7 12.1
Kenyan Shillings – (1.5) 2.5 0.9
Central African Franc – (8.1) (12.3) 62.6
Sudanese Pound 0.3 – (0.8) –
Angolan Kwanza – 0.1 – 1.0
Zambian Kwacha 0.3 (0.1) – –
15.4 (26.0) 64.6 97.5
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
Average Rate Closing Rate
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
US Dollar 1.56 1.56 1.55 1.58
Euro 1.18 1.16 1.19 1.16
South African Rand 12.74 11.68 12.54 11.03
Mozambique Metical 41.32 48.64 40.95 57.39
Kenyan Shilling 133.35 125.91 129.21 133.45
Central African Franc 760.29 773.63 768.48 777.07
The Company does not have any exposure to foreign currencies at the reporting date (2010: £nil).
29. Financial instruments (continued) Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
A 10% strengthening of the UK sterling against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased/(decreased)
equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant. The
analysis is performed on the same basis for 30 September 2010.
2011 2010
Equity Profit/(loss) Equity Profit/(loss)
£m £m £m £m
US Dollar (4.8) 1.4 9.9 (4.6)
Mozambique Metical (2.4) (0.2) 11.0 1.2
South African Rand 0.4 – 9.1 4.4
Central African Franc 1.1 0.1 56.9 0.2
Kenyan Shilling (0.2) – 0.8 (0.6)
A 10% weakening of UK sterling against the above currencies at 31 December 2011 and 30 September 2010 would have had the
equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain
constant.
Interest rate risk management
The Group is exposed to interest rate changes on its floating rate borrowings, arising principally from changes in borrowing rates
in US Dollars, South African Rand, Central African Franc, Kenyan Shilling, Mozambique Metical and Sterling.
The Group’s manages interest rate risk by issuing a combination of fixed and floating rate debt instruments. At 31 December
2011, the Group had 57% (30 September 2010: 7%) of fixed rate debt and 43% (30 September 2010: 93%) of floating rate debt
based on a gross debt of £115.4m (30 September 2010: £35.9m).
The Group’s exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management
section of this note.
Market risk management
Market risk is the risk that the value of an investment will change due to movements in market factors. The Group is exposed to
market risk by virtue of its investment in Lonrho Mining Limited and other investments. A 10% reduction in the market share
price of Lonrho Mining Limited at 31 December 2011 would have decreased equity and profit by £0.2m.
Capital management
The Board’s policy for the Group and Company is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and
market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital,
which the Group defines as net operating income divided by total shareholders’ equity, excluding non-controlling interests.
As the Group is in a phase of expansion, the key capital requirements are to ensure that funding is available for current and
planned projects. Historically this has been achieved through capital raises, but as the Group has developed funding has been
raised through a mix of debt and equity.
The Group considers shareholders funds plus long term debt to represent capital as defined by IAS 1. The Group currently has
no target debt to equity funding range.
The Board of Directors intends to introduce a dividend policy for the Company to be made public during 2012 and implemented
in 2013.
Fair values
The Directors consider fair values are approximate to the carrying amounts shown in the statement of financial position in the
current and proceeding year. The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values
of financial instruments.
(a) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
(b) Finance lease liabilities
The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous
lease agreements. The estimated fair values reflect change in interest rates.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 109
Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Financial instruments (continued) (c) Trade and other receivables/payables
For receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All other receivables/payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
The fair value of assets and liabilities can be classed in three levels:
Level 1 – Fair values measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Fair values measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or
liability, either directly(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3 – Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data
(i.e. unobservable inputs).
All assets and liabilities held within Lonrho are within Level 1 of the hierarchy.
30. Operating leases
At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Aircraft Property Equipment Total
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year 2.3 2.2 1.7 0.6 0.1 – 4.1 2.8
Between one and five years 3.0 3.4 8.7 2.9 0.2 – 11.9 6.3
5.3 5.6 10.4 3.5 0.3 – 16.0 9.1
Included in the above are property leases of the Company amounting to £0.4m (2010: £0.1m) less than 1 year and £1.7m (2010:
£0.8m) between one and five years.
For leased aircraft, the amount disclosed includes all maintenance obligations.
31. Capital commitments
The Group has a capital commitment in respect of a cold room facility upgrade. The total cost of the upgrade is £200k of which
£48k has been paid and is included within the assets in course of construction (Note 14). The balance of £152k will be paid
within the next financial year.
Other capital commitments of £nil will be paid within the next financial year (2010: £1.1m).
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2011 (2010: £nil).
32. Contingent liabilities
There were no contingent liabilities at the reporting date (2010: £nil), the outturn of which the Directors consider could
materially impact the financial statements. The Group has no contractual obligation to provide future funding to associates and
has no contingent liabilities in respect of its associates.
33. Related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (see note 34), associates and joint ventures (see note 17),
companies in which the Group has an investment, and with its Directors.
Transactions with subsidiaries
Transactions within the Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
At the reporting date Lonrho Africa (Holdings) Limited owed the Company £127.3m (2010: £87.9m). Lonrho Africa (Holdings)
Limited holds the operating bank accounts for the Group and the majority of the Group’s investments in subsidiaries. The
movement on the intercompany balance represents the transfer of cash raised during the year through the capital raises.
Transactions with associates
LonZim Plc
On 29 November 2010, the Company announced that it had participated in a placing of shares in its associate company, LonZim
Plc. Lonrho subscribed for 4,384,011 LonZim shares as a cost of £1.2m taking its total interest to 13,324,010 ordinary shares.
110 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Financial instruments (continued) At the reporting date, the Company owned 22.92% of LonZim Plc (2010: 24.61%) and exerts significant influence over the
company. On admission to AIM in 2007 LonZim Plc issued shares to the value of £7.3m in exchange for Lonrho Plc entering into
a non-compete agreement. The agreement covers a period of five and a half years from November 2007.
During the period the Company charged £0.7m (2010: £0.5m) to LonZim Plc as a management charge. At the reporting date
£nil was due from LonZim Plc (2010: £0.2m).
Since 1 October 2010, Lonrho Hotels has charged £0.1m to the Leopard Rock Hotel Company (Pty) Limited, a LonZim company,
in relation to management fees. At the reporting date £0.1m was outstanding.
On 1 July 2009 LonZim acquired an aircraft from Lonrho Air Three (BVI) Limited, a subsidiary of Lonrho Plc, for a total of
US$4.3m (£2.6m). The aircraft is leased to Five Forty Aviation Limited, a Lonrho subsidiary, for US$55k per month. As at
31 December 2011, US$27k (£17k) was payable from Fly540 Kenya to LonZim Air. Five Forty Aviation provides maintenance and
other ancillary services to LonZim Air relating to the leased aircraft. At reporting date the outstanding amount due to Five Forty
Aviation from LonZim Air was £356k (2010: £nil).
LonZim leases one aircraft on industry standard operating lease terms to Fly 540 Uganda with a monthly rental amount of
US$28k (£17k) payable and as at 31 December 2011 $174k (£112k) was due from Fly540 Uganda to LonZim. During the period
ended 31 December 2011 LonZim leased a further aircraft to Fly540 Uganda on industry standard operating lease terms,
however this lease arrangement came to an end in February 2011. Total amounts charged under this arrangement in the period
to 31 December 2011 were £87k (2010: £202k). At the reporting date £nil was outstanding. Fly540 Kenya is acting as an agent in
the recovery of the insurance money relating to the LonZim Air (BVI) Ltd aircraft written off.
On 30 September 2011 Lonrho Hotels (Holdings) Limited acquired an 80% interest from LonZim in the share capital of
Aldeamento Turistico de Macuti S.A.R.L. (details provided in Note 7).
Investments
Lonrho Mining Limited
In December 2010, the Group increased its stake in Lonrho Mining Limited from 13.16% to 17.04% at a cost of £1.3m. Following
this, there was a capital raise in December 2011 which diluted the shareholding to 13.96% at the reporting date. At the reporting
date £nil was due from Lonrho Mining Limited (2010: £0.9m).
Swissta DRC SPRL
The Group holds 20% of Swissta DRC SPRL. At the reporting date £0.1m (2010: £0.1m) was due from Swissta DRC SPRL as a
result of a short term non-interest bearing loan.
Transactions with key management personnel
Key management personnel are considered to be the Company’s Directors.
During the period £0.03m (2010: £0.1m) was charged to the Group by DSG Chartered Accountants. Jean Ellis is a partner in this
firm.
The key management personnel compensations are as follows:
15 months 12 months
ended ended
31 December 30 September
2011 2010
£m £m
Short-term employee benefits 4.0 2.5
Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2
Share based payment (see note 26) 0.5 2.3
4.7 5.0
Total remuneration is included in “staff costs” (see note 9).
Details of Directors’ remuneration is given on page 57.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 111
Notes to the financial statements continued
33. Related parties (continued) 34. Group entities 
Principal subsidiaries
Ownership interest
Country of incorporation 2011 2010
Luba Freeport Limited Jersey 63% 63%
Five Forty Aviation Limited Kenya 49% 49%
Lonrho Air (BVI) Limited British Virgin Islands 100% 100%
Sociedade Comercial Bytes & Pieces Limitada Mozambique 65% 65%
Hotel Cardoso SARL Mozambique 59.04% 59.04%
Lonrho Africa (Holdings) Limited* UK 100% 100%
Rollex (Pty) Limited South Africa 100% 100%
e-Kwikbuild Housing Company (Pty) Limited South Africa 35.91% 35.91%
Trak Auto Lda Mozambique 100% 100%
Oceanfresh Seafoods (Pty) Limited South Africa 51% 51%
Fresh Direct Limited British Virgin Islands 100% 100%
Grand Karavia SPRL Democratic Republic of Congo 50% 50%
Lonrho Agribusiness (BVI) Limited British Virgin Islands 100% –
Aldeamento Turistico de Macuti SARL Mozambique 80% –
LonAgro Equipamentos Agricolas Limitada Angola 51% –
Lonrho Logistics (Pty) Limited South Africa 100% –
Fish On Line (Pty) Limited South Africa 51% –
Global Horizons Limited Isle of Man 100% –
Africa Expeditions Limited Kenya Kenya 100% –
Sportsgear Investments (Private) Limited Zimbabwe 100% –
Burp Track Investments (Private) Limited Zimbabwe 100% –
Crosshairs Point (Private) Limited Zimbabwe 100% –
* Directly held by the Company.
Inclusion of all the subsidiaries in the Group would be excessive and therefore only the significant trading entities are shown above.
Although the Group owns less than half of the voting power of Five Forty Aviation Limited, it is able to govern the financial and
operating policies of that company by virtue of an agreement with the other investors of Five Forty Aviation Limited.
Consequently, the Group consolidates its interest in that company.
Similarly for e-Kwikbuild Housing Company (Pty) Limited and Grand Karavia SPRL, the Group has Board control giving it the
ability to govern the financial and operating policies of those companies and hence the Group consolidates its investment in
these companies. In the case of the Grand Karavia SPRL, control was obtained during the prior year (see note 17). Exchange
control procedures exist in Kenya, Mozambique, Angola, Zimbabwe, Democratic Republic of the Congo and South Africa which
place restrictions on repatriation of cash to the Group.
35. Events after the reporting date
In January 2012:
• The Group raised £26.9m before expenses through a placing of 161,280,925 Firm Placing Shares and 108,217,870 Open Offer
Shares both at an issue price of 10 pence per New Ordinary Share each.
• The Group announced that it had completed a share purchase agreement to acquire 100% of Lonagro Tanzania Limited for
US$1.4m (£0.9m) and had also entered into a Memorandum of Understanding directly with John Deere to become the
exclusive John Deere dealership in South Sudan.
Assets acquired for John Deere Tanzania included £0.1m inventory and £0.8m intangibles relating to franchises.
In February 2012:
• The Group announced that Lonrho Hotels, had entered into a ten year management agreement for the 450-room Grand
Hotel Kinshasa in the capital of Democratic Republic of the Congo.
In March 2012:
• The Group announced that e-Kwikbuild had won contracts totalling £10.2m for the supply and construction of 116 new
schools for remote parts of the Eastern Cape of South Africa.
In April 2012:
• The Group announced that, under its exclusive franchise agreement with Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou’s easyGroup, the first
easyHotel.com branded hotel is scheduled to open by the end of the year at the historic former Stuttafords Department Store
building in the Johannesburg Central Business District in South Africa.
112 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued Number of % of total Number % of total
holders holders of shares shares
UK REGISTER 
Category of shareholder
Individuals 18,074 88.10 51,462,114 3.28
Banks, nominees & other corporate bodies 1,207 5.88 1,515,006,356 96.61
19,281 93.98 1,566,468,470 99.89
SA REGISTER
Category of shareholder
Individuals 1,082 5.27 716,514 0.05
Banks, nominees & other corporate bodies 153 0.75 928,260 0.06
1,235 6.02 1,644,774 0.11
COMBINED REGISTERS
Shareholding range
1 – 500 13,521 65.90 2,009,483 0.13
501 – 1,000 2,345 11.43 1,672,041 0.11
1,001 – 5,000 2,600 12.67 5,905,461 0.38
5,001 – 50,000 1,511 7.37 25,434,106 1.62
50,001 – 100,000 178 0.87 13,012,337 0.83
100,001 – 500,000 191 0.93 43,692,540 2.79
500,001 – 1,000,000 55 0.27 39,578,495 2.52
1,000,001 and over 115 0.56 1,436,808,781 91.62
20,516 100.00 1,568,113,244 100.00
Capital gains tax base cost of shares at demerger
For capital gains tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in either Lonrho Plc or Lonmin Plc after 7 May 1998, who held
shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two companies. Based
on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 of Lonrho Plc and Lonmin Plc this apportionment would be 19.502% for Lonrho Plc
and 80.498% for Lonmin Plc.
For capital gains tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in either Lonrho Plc or Castle Acquisitions Plc after 3 May 2005,
who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of their original Lonrho Plc shares between the two
companies. Based on the closing share prices on 3 May 2005 of Lonrho Plc and Castle Acquisitions Plc this apportionment
would be 81.8333% for Lonrho Plc and 18.1667% for Castle Acquisitions Plc.
Registrars
All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as queries concerning dividend payments, notification of change of
address or the loss of a share certificate, should be addressed to the Company’s registrars.
LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 113
Shareholder Information
Analysis of ordinary shareholdings as at 24 February 2012 Shareholder Information continued
Analysis of ordinary shareholdings as at 24 February 2012
Free share sale facility
The Company welcomes shareholders regardless of the size of their holding. However, it recognises the often disproportionate
cost to smaller shareholders of disposing of their investments. In view of this the Company has arranged for its Registrars to
offer a share sale service free of charge to investors with a holding of 1,000 shares or less. Details of the service can be obtained
by telephoning Equiniti on 0800 169 2608 (if calling from overseas please dial +44 121 415 7047), or Computershare Investor
Services Limited on +27 11 370 5198.
ShareGift
Lonrho supports ShareGift, the share donation charity (registered charity 1052686) which accepts donations of shares which
would otherwise be uneconomic to sell, collects them into holdings that are large enough to sell and uses the proceeds for the
benefit of UK Charities. ShareGift has given millions of pounds to hundreds of different charities since it was launched in 1996.
Donating shares to charity in this way gives rise neither to a gain nor a loss for Capital Gains Tax purposes.
Shareholders who wish to donate shares in this way can contact Equiniti as above or, for further information, ShareGift (The Orr
Mackintosh Foundation), www.ShareGift.org or telephone + 44 (0) 207 930 3737.
Unsolicited mail
As the Company’s share register is, by law, open to public inspection, shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from
organisations that use it as a mailing list. Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such mail should write to the Mailing
Preference Society, Freepost 29 Lon20771, London W1E 0ZT.
Unsolicited calls
Over the last year, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or
correspondence concerning investment matters. These are typically from overseas based ‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders,
offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments. These operations are
commonly known as ‘boiler rooms’. These ‘brokers’ can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the
Financial Services Authority (FSA) has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around £20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way; many of the victims had been successfully investing for several
years. Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free
company reports. If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
• Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation
• Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.fsa.gov.uk/register
• Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk
• If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation
Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at
http://www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/overseas.shtml
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk.
114 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 LONRHO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 115
Secretary and registered office
J H Hughes
Level 2
25 Berkeley Square
London
W1J 6HB
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7016 5105 
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7016 5109 
e-mail: hughes@lonrho.com 
Registered in England
Number 2805337
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc 
15 Canada Square 
Canary Wharf 
London
E14 5GL
PR Advisors
FTI Consulting
Holborn Gate
26 Southampton Buildings
London
WC2A 1PB
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7831 3113
Fax: +44 (0) 20 3077 0599
Principal group bankers
Barclays Bank Plc 
Lord Street
Liverpool
L2 6PB
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House Spencer Road 
Lancing
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA 
Tel: 0800 169 2608 (if calling from UK)
Tel: +44 121 415 7047 (if calling from overseas)
Textel: 0871 384 2255 (for the hard of hearing)
Please be advised calls to the textel line are charged at 8p/min
from BT landlines. Other telephone providers’ costs may vary.
South African transfer secretaries
Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Ltd 
PO Box 61051
Marshalltown 2107
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0) 11 370 5000
Fax: +27 (0) 11 370 5271/2
Stockbrokers
Panmure Gordon (UK) Limited
WH Ireland
Java Capital (Pty) Ltd
Corporate Information  Lonrho Plc
25 Berkeley Square, London W1J 6HB
Tel: +44 (0) 207 016 5105
www.lonrho.com
