 Lonrho Plc
Annual Report & Accounts
for the year ended 31 December 2012
Aligned with the Growth of Africa
Lonrho Plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 Lonrho is aligned 
with the developing 
opportunities across 
Africa where it operates 
four strategic divisions 
in eighteen countries.
Business Review
01 Highlights
02 The African Opportunity
04 Business Model and Strategy
06 Summary of Lonrho divisions 
08 Key Performance Indicators
10 Principal risks and uncertainties 
14 Chairman’s Statement
16 Chief Executive Officer’s 
Statement 
20 Operating Review
30 Financial Review
37 Corporate Responsibility
Governance
40 Board of Directors
42 Corporate Governance 
Statement 
50 Directors’ Remuneration Report 
56 Report of the Directors
Financial Statements
60 Independent Auditor’s Report to 
the Members of Lonrho Plc
61 Consolidated income statement
62 Consolidated and Company 
statements of comprehensive 
income
63 Consolidated and Company 
statements of changes in equity
64 Consolidated and Company 
statements of ﬁnancial position
65 Consolidated and Company 
statements of cash ﬂows
66 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
Investor Information
113 Shareholder Information 
115 Corporate Information
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the shareholders of Lonrho Plc. The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers do not accept 
or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly 
disclaimed. The Annual Report contains certain forward–looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and ﬁnancial condition of the Company. By 
their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and no 
reliance should be placed on them. The forward-looking statements reﬂect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the 
Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a proﬁt forecast.
Front Cover Image – Home Farms, Memory Marowa.
Lonrho Plc
Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 31 December 2012
Stock Codes: LONR (LSE)
LAF (JSE)
LOHOY (OTCQX)
Website: www.lonrho.com Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 01
Highlights
Financial Highlights
• Revenue from core operating divisions
2
for the 12 months to 31 December 2012 was £186.3m compared
with £152.9m for the 15 months to 31 December 2011. On an adjusted like-for-like basis at constant
currency
1
, revenue in the 12 months to 31 December 2012 has increased across all four divisions, with an
overall increase of 23.6%. 
• The Group’s total reported gross margin increased from 26.9% to 28.9% (comparing the 12 month period
with the prior 15 months).
• Net operating loss
3
for the year from core operating divisions was £3.4m. 
• An Executive review of the value of Lonrho’s investment in FastJet Plc resulted in an impairment charge of
£7.7m recorded to the income statement in the reported period. 
• The Group’s loss before tax for the year was £6.3m (2011: proﬁt before tax of £0.8m).
• As at 31 December 2012, the Group’s net assets were £174.2m (2011: £155.7m).
• Basic earnings/(loss) per share was 0.11 pence loss per share (2011: 0.49 pence earnings per share). 
• The Group’s net indebtedness
4
reduced by £11.9m to £87.2m in the 12 months to 31 December 2012. 
Operational Highlights
The majority of Lonrho’s development programme has been completed and related capital expenditure has
fallen accordingly. The businesses which have been part of the Group for the entire year have performed well.
Amongst the signiﬁcant operating highlights in the period are:
• At the end of 2012, Lonrho has completed the development of a unique, vertically integrated, international
standard, cold chain logistics and processing infrastructure within the Agribusiness division to deliver fresh
and frozen produce from across the countries of southern Africa to market.
• Following completion of the second phase expansion of the Luba Freeport project, entering 2013, the oil
services terminal continued to grow and is now forecast to handle 85%+ of all the support logistics for the
Equatorial Guinea offshore ﬁelds.
• During 2012 Lonrho Hotels division has continued with the plan to roll-out its hotel management company
and Lonrho Hotels has won new management contracts and/or leases to operate some of the leading
hotels in Africa.
Agribusiness
• Oceanfresh has implemented a partnership with Costco in the USA to supply ‘Kirkland Signature’ branded
hake loins to Costco stores worldwide. An additional Costco ‘Kirkland Signature’ line started delivery in the
later part of 2012. 
• Oceanfresh has been granted exclusive ﬁshing rights for Tuna in the 12 mile territorial waters and the 200
mile Exclusive Economic Zone in Mozambique for 5 years, the ﬁrst time the Mozambique Government has
issued ﬁshing rights for longer than 1 year. 
• LonAgro added the exclusive John Deere Distributorships for Tanzania and Southern Sudan in the year.
Infrastructure
• Luba Freeport beneﬁtted from signiﬁcantly increased exploration activity in 2012 which is expected to
continue into 2013. 
Hotels
• The Lansmore Masa Square opened under Lonrho Hotels four/ﬁve-star brand in the heart of the central
business district in Gaborone.
• Lonrho was awarded the management agreement for the Grand Hotel Kinshasa, in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo. 
• Continued strong performance of the Hotel Cardoso in Mozambique as well as increased activity at the
Grand Karavia in Lubumbashi in the DRC. 
• Entering into the easyHotel franchise agreement with the ﬁrst hotel opened in March 2013 as part of the
budget hotels roll-out programme.
Support Services
• CES expanded its operations into Namibia.
• Arlington Associates, a new business start-up, implemented a contract with the Government of Nigeria for
the inspection of crude oil and gas exported from Nigeria. 
FastJet Plc
• During 2012 Lonrho’s aviation division (the Fly540 regional airline) was separated out of Lonrho to create
FastJet Plc, an African low cost carrier, whose shares are listed on AIM. On separation Lonrho became the
largest shareholder in FastJet Plc. 
18 Countries
£186.3m
Revenue up 23.6% 
like-for-like
1
4 Divisions
28.9%
Gross Margin up 2%
1 Adjusted like-for-like ﬁgures include acquisitions (pre-acquisition comparables based on unaudited management accounts), exclude start-up businesses trading
for less than 12 months and are adjusted to the comparable 12 month period January to December at constant currency.
2 Core operating divisions include Agribusiness, Infrastructure, Hotels and Support Services. Following the FastJet Plc transaction, the Transportation Division is no
longer considered a core operating division.
3 Net operating proﬁt/(loss) is deﬁned as proﬁt before tax for the period excluding share of results of associates, jointly controlled entities and investments, as well
as amortisation and share based payments expense. 
4 Net Indebtedness excludes loans from minority shareholders. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Of the 10 fastest growing
economies in the world, 7 are
now in Africa
The African
Opportunity
02
Lonrho Agribusiness, Home Farms, Strawberries. Opposite page, top right, Lonrho Logistics. Africa as a continent has achieved social,
economic and political progress that has seen a
doubling of economic output over the past
decade. The one billion people in Africa are
developing as signiﬁcant consumers and are
forecast to become a market worth an estimated
US$2.5 trillion by 2020, making it one of the
world’s largest consumer markets. 
The demographic proﬁle of this young population
predicts that the middle classes will continue to
grow, from 355 million (34% of Africa’s population)
in 2010 to a forecast 1.1 billion (42%) by 2060. The
increasing disposable income from this growth is
establishing a new generation of consumers, who
are starting from a very low base, so have an
immensely high propensity to spend and consume.
Africa has also experienced rapid urban growth
over the last decade. The urban population is
currently 40% of the total population and is
projected to rise to about 60% by 2050. Forty-nine
African cities now have a population in excess of
1 million, and three of those are already home to
over 8 million people, each larger than London. 
Politically there has also been encouraging
progress and the majority of African countries now
conduct regular elections at national, regional and
local levels. Twenty-one countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa are now full or hybrid democracies.
Sub-Saharan Africa’s GDP grew 5.8% in 2012, faster
than Russia (4.1%) and Brazil (3.6%) and since 2000
foreign direct investment into Africa has risen by
more than 400%. Governments in Sub-Saharan
Africa have reduced their external debt levels from
63% of GDP in 2000 to just 22% in 2012. 
Indicators of economic growth are clear, there are
more than 735 million mobile phone subscribers in
Africa in 2012, twice as many as in the USA. Seven
of the top ten fastest economies in the world are
now African economies.
African Agriculture
Forecasts predict that the world will be challenged
to meet global food supply requirements by 2050.
An increasing global population (estimated at
another 2.5 billion people by 2050) and
diminishing output from traditional agricultural
sources mean that food security has become of
paramount importance. 
The forecast shortages are more concerning when
combined with projections demonstrating the
move by the populations of India and China from a
subsistence rice based diet to one demanding
increasing components of fruit, vegetables and
protein. 
Africa is not the only, but is the most important,
part of the solution to food security for the world.
Africa contains 60% of the world’s potentially
arable land, 733 million hectares, with abundant
rainfall and an advantageous climate for
agricultural production. Africa is the second largest
land mass in the world, dwarﬁng China, the USA
and Europe. 
Africa’s agricultural output was US$250 billion in
2011 and this is forecast to grow to US$500 billion
by 2020 and US$800 billion by 2030. However, this
is a fraction of Africa’s natural potential to become
the agricultural supplier to world demand. 
The opportunity for agriculture in Africa to develop
to meet domestic demand within Africa as it
becomes a consumer society and also to export to
meet increasing global demand is clear. 
Oil & Gas
Recent oil and gas ﬁnds both onshore and
offshore, in the East and West of Africa have
underpinned estimates that Africa contains over
25% of the world’s oil and gas reserves and as such
is becoming an important source of global energy.
The traditional African oil and gas producers of
Angola, Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea are now
being joined by a number of newly producing
countries across Africa.
2012 has seen a spate of further new discoveries
across East Africa, with a recent U.S. Geological
Survey estimating over 250 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas may lie off Kenya, Tanzania and
Mozambique, creating one of the largest gas ﬁelds
in the world. Onshore discoveries have been made
in East Africa, complementing the existing ﬁnds at
Lake Albert in Uganda.
In West Africa the reported reserves available for
development continue to expand as a spate of
exploration both increases the volumes of already
located reserves and establishes new ﬁelds from
Angola right along West Africa to Mauritania.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 03
Agriculture
60% of the world’ s arable land
is in Africa
Oil & Gas
It is estimated that 25% of the
world’ s Oil & Gas is in Africa
One billion people in Africa
are becoming a significant
consumer market Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
04
Opportunity
Lonrho has an inherent
understanding of the
drivers of the African
economy . 
Strategy
Lonrho’ s strategy is to
develop a group of
complementary
businesses across Sub-
Saharan Africa which
operate to the highest
international standards
and are market leaders
in their sectors. These
Group companies are
aligned with the rapid
economic growth being
driven by the
agriculture and oil &
gas sectors in Africa
and the growing
significance of these
sectors to the global
economy . 
Business Model
and Strategy
African Oil and Gas
Global 
Demand
Satisfying
African 
Consumer 
Boom
African Agriculture
Driving
TheLonrhobrand-100yearlegacyinAfrica
LonrhounderstandsAfrica
LondonmainmarketPlc
Mitigationofemergingmarketrisk
lyexperienced dmanag gementte
Exclusive v ly l fo f cusedo A Af fricanbu usiness
stworldpractices&respon nsiblebusine
Locally l
tteams
onAf f
First
ness
Strategic Objectives
To deliver shareholder value 
and high returns by being 
aligned with African growth Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 05
Lonrho focuses on providing the logistics and infrastructure for the
agriculture and oil & gas sectors which are the main economic drivers of the
African economy . The Group operates in an economic environment that is
experiencing significant expansion. The Directors believe that the Group has
the capabilities to deliver growth through supplying the required additional
services and infrastructure to meet the increase in demand. 
Strategic Drivers
Exclusively focused on African businesses 
Lonrho understands the economic
opportunities within the African continent.
Our mandate is to invest in, and build,
businesses across Africa. This has established
the Group as the leading UK Plc
conglomerate with a speciﬁc ‘Africa only’
focus. An increasing portfolio of investors,
analysts and commentators are recognising
Africa as an emerging market that is playing
an increasingly vital role in the requirements
of the global market place. Lonrho is well
positioned to beneﬁt from this growth with
its operating divisions directly related to
supporting the requirements needed for the
economic development of Africa. 
The Lonrho Brand
Lonrho is an established, recognised and
trusted brand across the African continent,
which provides tangible competitive
advantages for the Group. Lonrho has a
history of strong working relationships with
African governments, leading businesses and
distinguished industry leaders. Our brand
serves to reinforce our well established
relationships and assists us when seeking to
develop new relationships and opportunities. 
Quality, experienced management teams
with local knowledge
Excellent, well-motivated, management
teams are essential for any growing
company, especially one in an emerging
market environment where there are
exceptional challenges. Lonrho has
developed a senior divisional management
team across each of its divisions that have
local knowledge and add real value with
their experience of Africa and the speciﬁc
industry sectors in which Lonrho operates. 
Mitigation of emerging market risk
Lonrho has a legacy of over 100 years of
operating in Africa and an unparalleled local
network and knowledge base. Emerging and
developing markets are inherently risky
environments for commerce. To reduce this
risk Lonrho has actively structured its
operations with both sector and
geographical diversity. Lonrho has
deliberately spread its operations across
18 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. This
signiﬁcantly reduces the risk proﬁle of the
Group. 
First world practices and responsible
business ethics
Lonrho upholds good standards of
corporate governance and is strongly
committed to ethical business practices to
international standards. The Group
encourages all its subsidiaries to achieve
greater social, environmental and local
economic beneﬁts and its corporate
responsibilities are taken into account at all
stages of the investment decision process. 
London main market Plc
Lonrho has a premium main board listing on
the London Stock Exchange and has
secondary listings on the AltX market of the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange and the
OTCQX market in the USA. This provides
investors with access to a stock that is a
proxy for African growth, whilst they can be
comfortable with a good level of corporate
governance standards and international
practices.  Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
06
Summary of
Lonrho divisions
Agribusiness
Lonrho Agribusiness is a core Lonrho division and
vertically integrates the production, sourcing,
logistics, processing and distribution of agricultural
products from Sub-Saharan Africa to the
consumer, both domestically and globally. Focused
on the fruit, vegetable, ﬁsh and meat sectors, the
division supplies leading retailers in Sub-Saharan
Africa, Europe, the USA, Middle East, Scandinavia
and, increasingly, the Far East. The division also
distributes agricultural and heavy machinery.
Operating companies
• Lonrho Agribusiness (BVI) Ltd
• Rollex (Pty) Ltd
• Fresh Direct Ltd
• Home Farms
• Lonrho Logistics (Pty) Ltd
• 0ceanfresh Seafoods (Pty) Ltd
• Fish 0n Line (Pty) Ltd
• LonAgro Equipamentos Agricolas Lda
• LonAgro Tanzania Ltd
• LonAgro South Sudan Ltd
• Trak Auto Lda
Read more on p20
£123 . 6m
Revenue
£2.0m
Net operating proﬁt*
Infrastructure
Lonrho Ports is a core Lonrho division and
develops and manages oil logistics terminals. Luba
Freeport, the successful oil service terminal in the
Gulf of Guinea, has attracted major global oil
sector service companies to be long term tenants
at the port to service offshore exploration and
production rigs.
e-Kwikbuild manufactures and supplies quality
prefabricated buildings across the Continent.
Operating companies
• Luba Freeport Ltd
• e-Kwikbuild Housing Company (Pty) Ltd
Read more on p24
£23.5m
Revenue
£2.8m
Net operating proﬁt*
Lonrho now operates in four industry sectors: 
Agribusiness, Infrastructure, Hotels and Support Services. These important industries
provide some of the building blocks and foundations required for successful economic
growth.  Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 07
Revenue split by core
operating division as at
end of 2012 
66%  Agribusiness
13%  Infrastructure
6% Hotels
15%  Support Services
Hotels
Lonrho Hotels is an established and recognisable
brand name in Africa with a portfolio of quality
hotels centred on the commercial, conference and
business related markets across the Continent.
Lonrho Hotels owns or manages hotels in
Lubumbashi and Kinshasa in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Maputo in Mozambique,
Gaborone in Botswana and Mutare in Zimbabwe.
Operating companies
• Hotel Cardoso SARL
• Grand Karavia SPRL
• Lansmore Botswana
• Aldeamento Turistico de Macuti SARL
• Lonrho Hotels Management Services (BVI) Ltd
Read more on p26
£ 11.9m
Revenue
£( 1.9)m
Net operating loss*
Support Services
Lonrho's IT business is a full systems integrator and
manager that designs, builds, develops and integrates IT
solutions for large corporate clients, banks and
governments and then undertakes management
contracts to run and manage installations. Lonrho IT is a
top tier distributor for Cisco, Microsoft, Dell and Hewlett
Packard systems and equipment and is strategically
building a pan-African network of IT companies.
AFEX provides secure accommodation in Kenya and
Juba in the Republic of South Sudan, and one stop
single solution support services to large clients
operating in Africa.
Operating companies
• Sociedade Comercial Bytes and Pieces Lda
• Complete Enterprise Solutions Ltd
• AFEX Holdings Ltd
• Arlington Associates
Read more on p28
£27 .0m
Revenue
£2.1m
Net operating proﬁt*
*See note 4 of the ﬁnancial
statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
08
Key Performance
Indicators
Lonrho has grown
consistently since
2006 and operates
across various
markets, each with
their own key
drivers to success.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are an important management tool and are reviewed weekly. By
focusing on the key drivers in each business, management are able to maintain the best possible
understanding of underlying business performance across the Group.
KPIs, which are evaluated by management, are both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial.
Due to the breadth of businesses which operate in the Group, operational KPIs are speciﬁcally agreed
with management on a division by division basis at a Group level.
From 2013 it is intended that the Group will be putting more emphasis on return on equity as a key KPI
as the operating businesses mature.
Lonrho Group
At a Group level, management views proﬁtable revenue growth, both actual and like-for-like, and
gross margin as the key performance indicators.
Revenue growth
Group revenue has been growing constantly,
being driven both organically and by
acquisition. The year ended 31 December 2012
has seen revenue reach £206.5m.
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11* FY12
£m
Oct 10 to Dec 10
12 Months
Adjusted like-for-like* revenue growth
(12 months to 31 December)
To show the underlying growth in the Group it
is necessary to strip out the effects of start-up
businesses operating for less than a year and
the impact of year on year currency changes.
The Group has seen like-for-like revenue
growth in all the core operating divisions in the
year ended 31 December 2012 with an overall
increase of 23.6%.
+25%
+30%
+20%
+10%
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
Agribusiness
Infrastructure
Support Services
Hotels
£m
2011
2012
Reported gross margin percentages 
(12 months to 31 December)
By focusing on the gross margin being
generated by businesses, management is able
to ensure that proﬁtability across the Group
can be improved. Across the Group gross
margins increased in the year. Included in this
are underlying improvements in many of the
businesses offset against start-up costs and
lower margins in acquired businesses.
*Adjusted like-for-like ﬁgures include acquisitions (pre-acquisition comparables based on unaudited management accounts), exclude
start-up businesses trading for less than 12 months and are adjusted to the comparable 12 month period January to December at
constant currency.
*FY11 represent a 15 month period due to the change of ﬁnancial year end and therefore separately highlights October to December
2010 revenues to form an accurate 12 month period comparison. 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
Agribusiness
Infrastructure
Support Services
Hotels
Gross margin %
2011
2012 Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 09
Business speciﬁc KPIs
Across the divisions various metrics are tracked in order to understand business
performance. In addition to ﬁnancial measures, each individual business reports
between 3 and 10 largely non-ﬁnancial KPIs on a weekly basis. In order to give an
indication of KPI progression through the period, the main KPIs from the
businesses which are major drivers of revenue are shown below. 
Rollex/Lonrho Logistics
KPIs at Rollex and Lonrho Logistics focus on tonnages that the
business transport and process. One of the biggest drivers of
growth is tonnages which are air freighted. A restructuring in the
period integrating the Rollex logistics division with the Lonrho
Logistics business has put the business in the ideal position to
drive further growth in 2013. The reduction in tonnage from July
was the result of a management decision not to renew low margin
contracts but the business saw strong recovery by December
2012.
Oceanfresh
The business looks to volume of product sold as the main KPI. In
the period the growth resulted from the strengthening of the
Costco retail relationship and maintaining strong volumes with
existing customers. Despite delays with the ﬁsh promotion with
Costco, volumes to Costco and Checkers in South Africa have
been especially strong towards the year end.
John Deere
The John Deere franchise continues to grow with the opening of
LonAgro Tanzania and South Sudan in the period. The business
looks at units sold as one of the biggest drivers of growth and in
the period LonAgro Angola was a strong contributor reporting a
like-for-like growth of 239% in the period. Delays in tractor and
equipment deliveries to Lonrho adversely impacted expected sales
volumes, however going into 2013 Lonrho now has four John
Deere businesses which will support growth opportunities and
position the business as one of the leading suppliers of John
Deere equipment in Africa.
Luba Freeport
Increasing revenue at Luba is driven by increased activity from oil
exploration and drilling in the Gulf of Guinea. The middle of 2012
saw a drop in activity, but overall, the port saw an increase in
average vessel calls with year on year growth of 17%. Increased
exploration is expected to continue into 2013 and will drive further
growth in the port. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
10
Principal risks and uncertainties
Effective
management of risk
and uncertainty 
is essential to
the protection of
Lonrho’ s reputation
and the achievement
of sustainable
shareholder value.
In the course of day to day operations the Group
faces a number of risks and uncertainties. The
Board considers the matters described in this
section to be principal risks that face the Group
as it currently stands which could adversely
affect the business, results of operations,
revenue, proﬁt, cash ﬂow, assets and the delivery
of its strategy.
Given the size, complexity and spread of the
Group's businesses and the continually changing
environment in which the Group operates, this
cannot be an exhaustive list of such risks.
Internal Controls
Lonrho’s corporate strategy was developed to
exploit identiﬁed opportunities, whilst seeking to
mitigate known downside risks. Where material
risks have been identiﬁed within the businesses
the Board has implemented an appropriate
internal control environment to endeavour to
protect shareholders’ interests. The Board is
ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of
internal controls and risk management, and it
discharges its duties in this area by:
• Determining Lonrho’s risk appetite (the risk
exposure Lonrho’s strategy requires the Group
to take in the expectation of an economic
return) and risk tolerance (the risk Lonrho is
prepared to face in achieving its strategic
goals);
• Overseeing the risk management strategy; and
• Ensuring management implement effective
systems of risk identiﬁcation, assessment and
mitigation and internal controls. These systems
are designed to manage, rather than eliminate,
risk of failure to achieve business objectives
and cannot provide absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. 
Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of
the internal controls has been delegated to the
Audit and Executive Committees. 
Throughout the year Lonrho complied with the
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance
Code on internal controls and the relevant
sections of Internal Control: Revised Guidance
for Directors (the Turnbull guidance) and
Guidance on Audit Committees (formerly the
Smith guidance). No signiﬁcant weaknesses or
material failings were identiﬁed in the annual
review. 
Systems and procedures are in place across the
Group intended to identify, assess and mitigate
major business risks. The management of risk is
an integral part of the operational review process
and is supplemented at Group level by
independent challenge and review by the
Executive and Audit Committees.
Risk management
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the
Group's risk management and internal control
systems, which are overseen on its behalf by the
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee reviews
aspects of the risk management and control
systems on an ongoing basis at its meetings and,
at least once a year, considers the systems'
effectiveness on behalf of the Board. The Audit
Committee seeks the views of internal and
external auditors on the control systems and as
to how the Group's practice compares with
processes in other companies. Internal control
systems are also monitored operationally by
Group management and the internal audit
function, which is provided by TAG Incorporated,
including assessment against operational
outcomes. TAG Incorporated, a third party
service provider, acts under the overall control
and discretion of the Audit Committee.
At the operational level, divisional Chief
Executives have primary day to day operational
responsibility for risk identiﬁcation and risk
management arrangements and controls within
their operations.
Risk assessments made at business unit level are
subject to regular review and challenge by Group
senior management to test the thoroughness
and robustness of the judgments and evaluations
made.
Risk management reports and a Group risk
register are regular items for the Audit
Committee, which also reviews regular reports
from internal auditors. 
Principal risks
The speciﬁc risks referred to below are those
considered to be of most direct relevance and
signiﬁcance to the Group at present. Those risks
which are likely to affect businesses generally, or
that are in the nature of day to day operations,
are not included, whilst those risks that
potentially can materially and adversely impact
Lonrho's growth and strategic development are
included. Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
Risks relating to the operations of the Group:
Description of risk Impact Mitigation
Strategy
Failure to deliver on strategy of
growing market share; improving
margin; controlling working capital;
and selective capital expenditure
Unable to increase proﬁts, revenues
and margins
• Investing in programmes to ensure that new customers are won and
existing ones retained
• Group-wide focus on working capital management
• Obtaining favourable credit terms and making improvements in supply
chain management
• Thorough reviews of all proposed capital expenditure
Strategy fails to meet shareholder
expectations
Ineffective or poorly executed
strategy fails to create shareholder
value, leading to a loss of investor
conﬁdence and a reduction in the
share price. This in turn reduces
the Group’s ability to access
ﬁnance and increases vulnerability
to a hostile takeover
• Annual business plan
• Monthly reporting
• Annual strategy review
• Investor relations programme
One of the oil & gas or agricultural
sectors in which the Group supports
or operates is not as successful as
anticipated
Unable to deliver business plans • Multi—channel business model which reduces dependency on a single
revenue stream
Operational
Poor weather conditions Crop loss or damage due to frost,
ﬂooding, drought or wind
• Implementation of various risk models to control harvest risk
• Hardy varieties of agricultural crops grown
• Determining optimal harvest and processing rates
Key supplier failure Disruption in the supply of key
product lines
• Top suppliers and alternative supply routes monitored regularly
A food safety incident occurs or is not
effectively managed 
As a leading supplier of fruit,
vegetable, ﬁsh and meat to
leading retailers in Sub-Saharan
Africa, Europe, USA, the Middle
East, Scandinavia and the Far East,
it is paramount that the food
products sold to our customers
are safe
• Rigorous controls and processes, with a continuous focus on quality,
ensure that all our products are safe for consumption
Investment
Not sufficiently capitalising on market
investment opportunities through
difficulty in sourcing opportunities at
attractive prices
Unable to increase proﬁts,
revenues and margins
• The Group has dedicated resources whose remit is to constantly research
each of the sectors in which the Group operates seeking suitable
opportunities
Poor investment decisions due to
inadequate ﬁnancial assessment or due
diligence on new projects/acquisitions
Expected beneﬁts from
acquisitions might not be fully
realised and recognised assets
might become impaired
Unknown or understated liabilities
might be acquired
• Detailed valuation exercises are undertaken using various valuation criteria
and scenarios to assess potential returns, sensitivities and price
• Detailed due diligence is undertaken on all acquisitions prior to purchase to
ensure appropriate returns
• External ﬁnancial and legal advice is taken on all acquisitions (over £10m
for ﬁnancial)
• Where possible, the Group obtains commercially acceptable warranties
and indemnities from vendors Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
12
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Risks relating to the operations of the Group:
Description of risk Impact Mitigation
Finance and treasury
Failure in internal controls or
accounting processes
Could severely disrupt operations
and have a material adverse effect
on the Group’s ﬁnancial position 
• Lonrho has a clear organisational structure with appropriate segregation
of duties and independent internal and external audits with follow-up
actions
• The internal audit work plan is closely aligned to the risk management
framework and risk proﬁle of the Group 
Funding and liquidity risk Unable to meet obligations within
available committed facilities
Insufficient ﬁnancing available to
meet budget requirements
• Cash ﬂow and funding needs are regularly monitored to ensure sufficient
undrawn facilities are in place
• Implementation of covenants/key terms database across the Group
• Group Treasury function 
• Executive Committee sign-off on all debt facilities
• Ongoing monitoring of bond and debt covenants
• Regular contact with all lenders to enable renegotiation of covenants, if
necessary
• Reduce pace of growth, if necessary
• Ongoing programme of investor communications/analyst brieﬁngs and
research notes
• Continued search for new sources of equity and debt ﬁnance
• Network of partner banks established with regular communication
Currency risk Foreign exchange risk, as a
signiﬁcant proportion of Group
trading, is denominated in local
currency
The Group is increasingly exposed
to transactional risk
• Match currency of Company lending to subsidiary cash ﬂows whenever
possible
• Ongoing review of hedging
• Net offsetting foreign currency exposures between Group companies
wherever practicable
• Utilisation of appropriate instruments to hedge known foreign currency
exposures 
Counterparty/credit risk Credit losses, reduction in future
proﬁtability and cash ﬂow 
• Approved counterparties and approved credit limits with regular review
Climate change
Impact of climate change on Lonrho’s
businesses including the impact of a
carbon pricing system
Climate change is an international
problem that could lead to
consequences which are not as yet
completely understood. Coupled
with the proposed introduction of
carbon taxation it is likely that
climate change will have a ﬁnancial
impact upon the business 
• Lonrho is developing a comprehensive response strategy to climate
change. This will include operational plans to manage and monitor energy,
electricity and water efficiencies and includes participation in climate
change forums
Business partners, key relationships and reputation
Not sustaining current relationships
with business partners
Impact on Group's ability to retain
existing businesses and to take on
new opportunities
• Constant focus on performance, effective communication and ensuring
that Group's objectives are closely linked to those of our business partners
Risk of third parties infringing the
Group's intellectual property rights
and brand
Loss of reputation • Global intellectual property protection plan in place to minimise any risk of
detriment by way of infringement Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
Risks relating to the operations of the Group:
Description of risk Impact Mitigation
Systems and technology
Failure of systems and technology to
appropriately support the business
operations
Loss of competitive advantage • Strategy in place to invest in new systems and technology
Legal and regulatory
Litigation and regulatory risk Litigation or breaching the laws or
regulations of the countries in
which Group operates could have a
ﬁnancial and/or reputational impact
• The Group ensures that it obtains timely information about forthcoming
changes in legislation and that it has robust procedures in place to
minimise any risk of detriment or non-compliance
• Processes are in place which are aimed at reducing the potential for
litigation and for administering any problems which do arise with a view
to managing the exposure appropriately
• The Group has a risk management programme in place aimed at
preventing issues from arising where possible and managing any that do
crystallise
People
Failure to attract, develop, motivate
and retain talented employees
The loss of key staff and a lack of
internal succession planning for key
roles within the Group causes short
to medium term disruption to the
business
Employees who lack motivation and
engagement
• A remuneration system strongly linked to performance
• Formal appraisal system to provide regular assessments of individual
performance and identiﬁcation of training needs
• Succession plans in place for key positions
Skills shortages Lack of appropriate skills could
negatively impact upon safety,
production and the ability to
deliver against targets
• Processes for individual development programmes, succession planning
and scarce skills are in place
Internal or external fraud Unable to deliver business plans 
Loss of competitive advantage
• Segregation of duties at Head 0ffice
• Financial controls, including payment approvals, bank and ﬁnance systems
access
• Implementation of external or internal audit recommendations at Head
0ffice and subsidiary level
Economic, political and environmental
Corporate responsibility risk Loss of reputation as a good
corporate citizen
• Global corporate responsibility programme
Markets recover more slowly due to
global austerity measures
Unable to increase proﬁts,
revenues and margins
• The Group has a multi-market strategy primarily focused on Africa, where
the potential for strong growth is forecast, with a presence in North
America, Europe and Far East
• The Group has a multi—channel business model which reduces
dependency on a single revenue stream
The Group is exposed to political
instability in countries in which it
operates (e.g. the Group's biological
assets, farming activities and port
operations, which are held for the
long term and consequently are at risk
over such period)
May negatively affect the Group's
ﬁnancial condition and prospects
or its ability to achieve its
objectives
• The Group ensures that it is kept abreast of political developments in the
countries in which it operates and that it has robust procedures in place to
minimise any negative impact Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
14
I have, during my long career with the US
Government State Department, lived in Africa for
a dozen years and have a strong affinity with the
Continent and its people. I have now served
5 years as a Non-Executive Director on the Board
of Lonrho and after visiting many of our
operations in Africa, I can report, with conviction,
that we are very well positioned to participate in,
and to help, Africa’s emergence as a signiﬁcant
international economic motor. 
Already, seven of the world’s ten fastest growing
economies are in Africa, assisted by the discovery
of the impressive quantities of new onshore and
offshore hydrocarbons in West and in East Africa. 
At Lonrho we are well positioned to support
Africa’s export sector growth in hydrocarbons
and in agriculture. Africa is undergoing the
longest single period of economic expansion on
the Continent since the independence years a
half century ago. Signiﬁcantly, Africa’s macro
level growth is widespread, far beyond the oil
economies. Expected growth will rise from
around 4.5% last year to 4.8% in 2013. Foreign
direct investment has been slower into Africa
than it should have been, given this kind of
impressive record (though it is expected to rise, in
the non-oil sectors, from around US$33 billion
currently, to around US$84 billion in 2014.) Our
CEO, Geoffrey White reports an increasingly new
and interested audience, wanting to understand
Africa’s potential and what our historic Company
is doing to take advantage of the Continent’s
current immense opportunities. 
Shareholders know that Lonrho is already
invested in core sectors, from Agribusiness to
Infrastructure, to Support Services and Hotels,
sectors that are necessary to support the rapid
growth that is already happening. 
Our key division, Agribusiness, which accounts
for over 65% of Lonrho revenue from core
operating divisions, has been going through a
management transition, and restructuring, so it
can better compete in the fast moving, global,
and demanding agriculture and logistics space.
We hired a well-qualiﬁed CEO to speciﬁcally
oversee this division of Lonrho operations,
located across Southern Africa, and ranging from
fruit and vegetables, to ﬁsh and crustacea, and
farm machinery. He will be focusing on margin
improvement, moving away from a short term
trading focus, while continuing to garner
contracts with the world’s largest food importers
(Costco, Walmart and the majority of the UK
branded stores are already customers). We have
just opened a sales office in China as well. Whilst
Chairman’ s
Statement
“It is a special honour for me 
to be addressing shareholders 
in my first months as your 
new Chairman.”
Ambassador Frances Cook
Non-Executive Chairman Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
we had a few disappointments in this sector
during this transitional year, it was not due to the
revamped business model, but rather to the late
delivery of tractors to our John Deere sales
operation in Mozambique, and to lower than
expected ﬁsh size off Namibia. Even with these
late year slippages, our Agribusiness division
proudly posted a 12 month growth ﬁgure of
24.5% adjusted like-for-like at constant foreign
exchange. In short, this is a growth platform, and
record, we can be proud of. 
Infrastructure and Support Services core
operating divisions continue to grow at a healthy
rate, expanding business across a broad range of
activities which, among other things, will support
the rapid expansion of energy production in
Africa. Our IT operations have added another
country (Namibia), and our facilities operations,
both e-KwikBuild and AFEX, our base support
operations (for oil exploration companies, for
example), are also expanding into this dynamic
new sector. Our oil and gas port operation in
Luba, Equatorial Guinea, which I visited in
February 2013, will be a model for our
engagement with this sector (with a major new
Lonrho managed oil and gas logistics port
expected to be announced in 2013 in Ghana).
These are exciting times in the oil and gas
industry in Africa, and Lonrho is becoming a
highly regarded leader in logistics for this sector.
Hotels are legacy projects for Lonrho, but we are
moving into a more modern form of participation
in that sector, creating our own brand for higher
end facilities, and opening a series of “easyHotels
by Lonrho” for budget business travellers all over
the Continent. We opened a Lonrho “Lansmore”
in Botswana this year, adding to our historic hotel
property in Mozambique, as well as large
renovation and management efforts in the DRC
of major government owned hotels. In 2013, we
expect to expand the “easyHotel by Lonrho”
brand all over South Africa, and to launch into
North, East and West Africa. 
FastJet Plc is in the midst of converting Lonrho’s
much appreciated Fly540 brand of smaller
regional planes, ﬂying local routes, into a
continental budget airline, ﬂying larger planes,
following the separation of Lonrho’s aviation
division in June 2012. FastJet Plc, in which
Lonrho is the largest shareholder, will still service
the under-served “connector” market, as well as
extending ﬂights to regional destinations, with
reliable, safe and inexpensive ﬂights, using very
modern pricing algorithms. From the start of the
new operating model in Tanzania four months
ago, we expect FastJet Plc to expand its no-frills,
reliable service in 2013. 
Throughout its 100 year old legacy, Lonrho has
been known for its Corporate Responsibility
(“CR”) across Africa. In 2012, each of our
companies named a CR coordinator, so that we
can better focus in our chosen areas, education
and good environmental citizenship. You will see
photographs throughout this report of our CR
activities, which should be a source of pride to all
Lonrho shareholders. We have instituted,
company wide, an annual CR prize, trained our
Directors in CR, and joined the UN Global
Compact which monitors CR globally. We are
committed to leaving a positive “footprint”
wherever we work, and to being a good
corporate citizen in the 18 countries where we
are engaged. We know you would not expect
anything less.
Ambassador Frances Cook
Non-Executive Chairman
27 March 2013
Luba Freeport was awarded the Cook
Award, 2012, in recognition of successful
strategies and initiatives implemented in
pursuit of corporate responsibility
values.
Luba Freeport sponsored school, Centro
Prescolar Virgin de Monsterrat. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
16
This transition took longer to complete than
expected, and there were some delays in 2012
plans that caused potential 2012 business to
move to 2013, but entering 2013 the Group is
well positioned to deliver positive results for
shareholders going forward.
Lonrho remains solely focused on Africa and
being aligned with economic development
across the Continent. 
In 2013 African growth is being stimulated by the
burgeoning oil and gas industry, agricultural
opportunities and a consumer market that is
young, communicative and developing as a very
signiﬁcant segment of society. The formal sector
of the African consumer market is forecast to be
US$1.3 trillion by 2020, and the informal sector is
forecast to be similar in size. 
Africa is becoming one of the world’s largest
consumer markets. 
There is now an increasing commercial
momentum to address this growing consumer
market that can be seen across much of Africa,
where the development of infrastructure,
shopping centres, and consumer focused
projects is expanding rapidly, albeit from a very
low base. 
Surprising to many, seven of the top ten fastest
growing economies in the world are now in
Africa.
The consumer market, of over one billion people,
a large percentage of which are under the age of
25, creates a signiﬁcant commercial opportunity,
and Lonrho’s businesses entering 2013 are
strategically aligned with the requirements and
services needed to meet some of the central
demands of African consumer growth.
The growing demand of the consumer market
within Africa provides signiﬁcant opportunities for
Lonrho’s core businesses.
Our core businesses focus on the oil and gas
industry, and the agriculture sector, and these are
not only helping to fuel African consumer growth
by creating investment and prosperity, but are
also fundamentally changing the standing and
importance of Africa to the world. For the ﬁrst
time, the wider world is becoming dependent on
Africa for energy and for food production. 
Chief Executive
Officer’ s Statement
“20 1 2 was a very significant year for
Lonrho and saw the conclusion, by the
end of the year , of the transition of
Lonrho into a Company that has
successfully completed the
establishment of its core business units
and is now in a strong position to
build on the opportunities in Africa.”
Geoffrey White
Director and Chief
Executive Officer Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17
25% of the world’s oil and gas is now believed to
be in Africa and 60% of the world’s potentially
arable land is in Africa. These are important
statistics that make the Africa of today of growing
global signiﬁcance. The tide is beginning to turn,
rather than Africa being dependent on the world,
the world is increasingly becoming dependent on
Africa for energy and for food production. 
Lonrho has, over the past four years, strategically
positioned its core businesses to be well placed
to service the requirements of this new dynamic
market. Having invested heavily in building the
international standard infrastructure to meet this
trend, global food retailers are now approaching
Lonrho to source fresh and frozen produce from
Africa, and the global oil and gas industry is
encouraging and supporting our development of
the essential infrastructure and logistics
necessary to commercially develop Africa’s oil
and gas resources.
In September 2012, David Lenigas, who was the
Executive Chairman of Lonrho since 2006,
stepped down from the position to become the
Executive Chairman of FastJet Plc. The Board
thank him for his guidance, time and effort as the
Executive Chairman of Lonrho over the past
seven years.
Following a review, the Company’s senior
independent director, Ambassador Frances Cook,
was appointed as the Non-Executive Chairman of
the Company on the departure of Mr Lenigas.
Ambassador Cook brings a unique network of
contacts and experience in Africa and the
Company looks forward to further beneﬁtting
from her guidance and knowledge of the
Continent.
Human resources are key to successful
operations in Africa. During 2012 the Group
continued to recruit industry specialists to further
bolster and develop each of the divisional
operations. The most senior during 2012 being
the appointment of Ben Ward as the CEO of the
Agribusiness division. Ben brings with him a long
and experienced understanding of the sector. 
Lonrho’s four operating business divisions are
speciﬁcally structured to help provide the
requirements of African growth.
Entering 2013 Lonrho is structured into four
divisions: 
Agribusiness (66% of core operating revenues)
Sourcing, production, cold chain logistics,
processing and packaging of fruit, vegetables
and seafood for African and international
supermarkets
At the end of 2012, Lonrho completed the
development of a unique, vertically integrated,
international standard, cold chain logistics and
processing infrastructure. This incorporates the
capacity required to source; produce, process,
package and deliver fresh and frozen produce
from across the countries of southern Africa to
market. This division supplies leading retailers in
Africa such as Shoprite, Checkers, Makro, Food
Lovers and Spar who are all geographically
expanding their operations to serve the growth in
the African consumer market. 
The division also increasingly supplies produce
into international supermarket chains such as
Costco, Walmart, Asda, Tesco, Spinneys,
Waitrose, Carrefour and others. 
The world is becoming more and more
dependent on Africa for food security. Lonrho
provides the international standard delivery
infrastructure required for the export of fresh
produce from Africa to the global marketplace
meeting demand from Europe, the USA, Middle
East and, increasingly, China and the Far East. 
Lonrho is helping to fulﬁl the rapidly increasing
demand from global supermarkets as they look
to Africa as an essential source of fresh produce.
Within the division, Lonrho has also established
niche market, demand driven, growing
programmes aligned with speciﬁc customer
requirements.
The division also distributes John Deere
agricultural equipment into Africa.
Infrastructure (13% of core operating revenues )
Providing the logistical infrastructure necessary
for the expanding oil and gas industry in Africa
Lonrho Ports division has developed an exclusive
oil and gas logistics terminal, Luba Freeport, that
is a ‘one stop shop’ that supports the growing
logistics requirements of the offshore industry in
Equatorial Guinea. Equatorial Guinea is Africa’s
third largest oil producer. Following completion
Left to right Lonrho operations:
Luba Freeport, Rollex,
Oceanfresh. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
18
Chief Executive Officer’ s Statement continued
of the second phase expansion of the Luba
Freeport project, entering 2013, the oil services
terminal has grown and is now forecast to handle
85%+ of all the support logistics for the
Equatorial Guinea offshore ﬁelds. 
Long term tenants at Luba Freeport include
ExxonMobil, Schlumberger, Noble, MI Swaco,
Ophir, CNOOC, Baker Hughes, Tenaris, Hess,
Marathon and others.
Lonrho is seeking to replicate the success of the
Luba Freeport project into other locations in both
West and East Africa supporting the increasing
infrastructure requirements for oil and gas ﬁnds
on both sides of the Continent, the most
advanced being a proposed oil and gas logistics
terminal in Ghana. 
Hotels (6% of core operating revenues)
The provision of safe, quality accommodation is
an essential precursor for economic growth and
development in an emerging market
During 2012 Lonrho Hotels division continued
with the plan to roll-out its hotel management
company and create a Lonrho branded,
corporate focused, hotel chain in Africa. Lonrho
Hotels has won management contracts and
leases to operate some of the leading hotels in
Africa. Managing hotels in ﬁve countries, the
Lonrho Hotels brand is becoming the choice of
travellers to Africa. During 2012 the division
successfully added the Grand Hotel Kinshasa,
DRC, and The Lansmore Hotel in Gaborone,
Botswana to the portfolio. 
In early 2013 Lonrho Hotels launched the ﬁrst
‘easyHotel by Lonrho’ to meet the growing
market demand for budget hotels. The objective
being to establish a chain of budget hotel
properties managed on behalf of owners,
branded ‘easyHotel by Lonrho’ that provide safe
budget accommodation to a consistent standard
with reliable quality across the whole of Africa. 
Support Services (15% of core operating
revenues)
Providing a single point service solution for
resource companies, large corporates, NGO’s
and Governments
Lonrho’s Support Services division provides a fully
cohesive support service to major clients across
the Continent, delivering a one stop shop for
logistics, accommodation, catering, IT and
services. Customers are typically oil companies,
“Africa is forecast to deliver strong
growth in 2013, and Lonrho has
strategically aligned its operations
with what it believes are the most
important growth opportunities
occurring in Africa, supporting the
increasing demand from the
expanding agriculture, oil and gas
and consumer markets.”
Lonrho Agribusiness, Rollex processing and packing facility, OR T ambo
International Airport, Johannesburg, South Africa Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19
mining companies, NGO’s, the UN, and
international Governments who see the beneﬁt in
a one stop shop provider offering a total solution
for their requirements as they deploy into Africa.
FastJet Plc
In June 2012, Lonrho announced that it had
agreed to separate its aviation division, Lonrho
Aviation, into Rubicon Diversiﬁed Investments
Plc, an AIM listed investment company that was
subsequently renamed FastJet Plc (LON: FJET).
As a consequence of the separation, Lonrho
became the largest shareholder of FastJet Plc
with a 74% holding. The founder and largest
shareholder in easyJet, Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou’s
investment company easyGroup, became a
shareholder in FastJet Plc and provides strategic
management of the company. 
FastJet Plc, in which Lonrho maintains a passive,
arm’s-length, shareholding has subsequently
launched as a low cost carrier domestically in
Tanzania and believes that with Sir Stelios’
direction and experience FastJet Plc has the
potential to develop into Africa’s leading low cost
carrier.
Lonrho’s stake in FastJet Plc has been reduced
from 74% to 55% post-separation as FastJet Plc
raises development capital to implement its
business plan.
Due to current market conditions experienced by
FastJet Plc, an impairment review has been
carried out which resulted in an impairment
charge being recorded in the income statement
of £7.7m. 
Outlook
2012 was a very signiﬁcant year for Lonrho and
saw the conclusion of the transition of Lonrho
into a Company that has successfully completed
building the foundations of its core business
units. Africa is forecast to deliver strong growth in
2013, and Lonrho has strategically aligned its
operations with what it believes are the most
important growth opportunities occurring in
Africa, supporting the increasing demand from
the expanding agriculture, oil and gas and
consumer markets. 
Despite challenging global market conditions,
Lonrho’s outlook for 2013 remains in line with
the Board’s expectations and the Group expects
to continue to deliver improved performance
across each of its operating divisions.
The Board believes that the strategic action taken
in Q3 and Q4 2012, to focus on increasing
margins through operational efficiencies and
build long term sustainable customer
relationships, coupled with the decision to
withdraw from less proﬁtable lines of business,
positions Lonrho strongly for entering 2013.
Geoffrey White
Director and Chief Executive Officer
27 March 2013
Left to right Lonrho operations:
Luba Freeport, easyHotel
signage Johannesburg, Home
Farms produce. 20
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Operating
Review
Agribusiness
Lonrho ’ s Agribusiness division is directly aligned with the
opportunities for the development of African agriculture. These
opportunities are not just to meet the growing demands of the one
billion people who are becoming the consumer market in Africa, but
also to capitalise on the increasing demand from supermarket chains
around the world to source and deliver African produce to meet their
increasing requirements.
Contribution to
Group T urnover
66% 
£123.6m
Revenue Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21
The Opportunity
Lonrho’s strategic focus for the agriculture
division is predicated on the macro economic
fact that 60% of the world’s potentially arable
land is in Africa, combined with the projections of
the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the
United Nations (www.fao.org) that the world will
struggle to produce sufficient food to feed the
9 billion people forecast to be on the planet by
2050.
As a result of the above Africa’s potential
agricultural output is going to become very
important to feeding the world.
The potential for Africa to play a signiﬁcant part in
world food markets starts with the sheer scale of
vacant African arable land with abundant natural
water and suitable microclimates creating
seasonal production advantages. 
Lonrho believes that some of the best agricultural
opportunities in Africa in 2012 are found in the
producing countries across southern Africa,
including Mozambique, Tanzania, Zambia,
Zimbabwe, Angola and southern Democratic
Republic of the Congo. This region has the water,
climate, available land and seasonal advantages
to become a highly important part of global
production.
An essential component for the
commercialisation of this opportunity is the
ability for fresh produce to be packed, processed,
handled and delivered from producers across this
region of Africa and then delivered to market. 
Lonrho’s position
To meet this growing demand, Lonrho has,
during 2012, completed developing an
international standard, vertically integrated, cold
chain logistics network, across the southern
African region, that can pack and process fresh
and frozen produce and deliver it to market,
whether the market be in Africa or in China, USA,
Europe or the Middle East.
Lonrho’s vertically integrated cold chain provides
an auditable, single ownership, traceable, delivery
solution for African produce to reach
international supermarket chains. This vertical
integration is important in building customer
conﬁdence in the quality and traceability of
products being delivered to market.
Lonrho cold chain logistics undertakes the
majority of the export of fresh produce from
southern Africa to market, including fruit,
vegetables, crustacea and ﬁsh by air. It is also a
signiﬁcant general logistics business handling
fresh produce and frozen goods by road and sea
freight for both Lonrho and for third parties.
Lonrho also operates the largest ‘high care’
facilities in the region that can take fresh produce
and pack and process it to customers’ demands.
For example, rather than delivering a tomato to a
European supermarket, the tomato can be sliced
and diced in a Lonrho high care facility, added to
other ingredients and developed into a salad or a
stir-fry. This ‘value add’ is all completed within the
Lonrho facilities in Africa, including the
processing, pricing, date stamping and packing in
retail brand packs for customers across Europe
and the Middle East.
Lonrho operates a ‘demand driven’ agricultural
business, where speciﬁc products are grown for
speciﬁc retailers to meet their demands. Lonrho
focuses on the fruit and vegetable sectors of the
market, where Lonrho believes there is a
signiﬁcant market opportunity to meet the
increasing global demand from consumers for
fruit and vegetables as disposable incomes rise
and eating habits upgrade. 
Since completing the development of its
vertically integrated, one stop, delivery platform
towards the end of 2012, Lonrho has seen
increasing interest from retailers, both in Africa
and internationally, in developing long term,
sustainable growing programmes with Lonrho to
meet their requirements. 
As a result, at the end of 2012, Lonrho began to
undertake annual growing programmes for
retailers in Africa and in Europe. These long term
demand focused relationships with supermarkets
are now being replicated into other markets such
as the ASEAN and China markets and the USA. 
For example, Lonrho has supplied in excess of
180 tonnes of strawberries to leading South
African supermarkets during 2012. The business
model for Lonrho is to understand and work
closely with supermarket chains to fully
comprehend their needs and then grow directly
to meet their requirements. These requirements
are often in relation to meeting seasonal
production shortages, or the provision of ‘high
care services’ to develop value added products
for customers.
Lonrho satisﬁes retailer demand from a
combination of our internal growing
programmes on Lonrho farming operations
combined with produce coming from Lonrho
managed and sourced third party producers and
outgrower co-operatives. 20% of the Lonrho
requirement is from its own farming operations
and 80% comes from outgrower and contract
co-operative initiatives working closely under
Lonrho’s oversight.
Left to right:
Home Farms, Oceanfresh
supplying in-house brand
products for leading
supermarkets including
Walmart and Costco, Rollex
facility . 22
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Where Lonrho is utilising co-operatives and
outgrowers, Lonrho provides off-take
agreements and monitors and assists with
growing programmes, encouraging and
monitoring standards of local production. Where
necessary, Lonrho provides agronomists to
support local production to increase yields and
the quality of the output and provides training
and skills development.
The various sources of production are
consolidated and delivered into the Lonrho
Logistics cold chain to provide a one stop
delivery solution that operates to an
international standard and seamlessly delivers
produce to the end customer in the best
possible condition. 
The completion of this demand driven ‘farm to
fork’ infrastructure in 2012 now provides a
simple and reliable platform for the world’s
supermarket chains to be able to access the
potential productivity of African fresh produce.
Lonrho does not own title to agricultural land in
Africa, preferring to have long term leases for
farm land and exclusive off-take agreements
with suppliers. 
A speciﬁc example of Lonrho’s demand driven
growing operations in 2012 would be Lonrho’s
177,000 tree stone fruit plantation, the largest in
Africa. Lonrho identiﬁed the speciﬁc market
requirement with retailers, and started planting
in 2010. This plantation is now maturing and
delivering peaches and nectarines into the
European market for the six weeks prior to
Christmas ﬁlling a market gap where retailers
had traditionally struggled to ﬁnd ripe stone fruit.
2012 production was around 500,000 kg of
peaches and nectarines and as the plantation
reaches maturity in 2014, the yield should
increase to 4 million kgs. 
As highlighted previously, exceptionally low
temperatures earlier in 2012 caused frost
damage to a proportion of the fruit on the very
young tree stock affecting last year’s harvest. As
the trees mature, they become stronger and
more resilient and measures have been put in
place to ensure that, in the future, there will be
minimal loss of fruit, and minimal impact on the
biological asset valuation, if the temperatures
were again to reach such unprecedented lows. 
Similarly, Lonrho is planting 240,000 blueberry
bushes over the next three years to meet a
market gap identiﬁed in the USA, UK, EU and
South Africa when Africa has seasonal
advantages over USA and South American
producers.
Fish and Crustacea
Lonrho’s Oceanfresh division primarily provides
Hake from Namibia and South Africa to retail
clients. Hake is a quality white ﬁsh similar to cod.
It is wild caught, not farmed, and is ﬁshed under
a sustainable sourced ﬁshing policy operated by
the WWF. SASSI (Southern African Sustainable
Seafood Initiative) controls the volume of ﬁsh
being landed and sets and enforces quotas to
ensure that Hake is not over ﬁshed and therefore
remains a long term and sustainable resource.
Lonrho’s Oceanfresh is a signiﬁcant buyer of
Hake from the ﬁshing ﬂeets and processing
companies in Namibia and South Africa, and
packages and delivers the product selling into
retailers in both Africa and internationally. 
In Africa, during 2012 Lonrho has exclusively
launched the ‘Cape Point’ own brand range for
Shoprite/Checkers and supplies their whole
range of Cape Point branded ﬁsh products.
Likewise, Oceanfresh exclusively provides the
own brand ranges to Makro stores and to Spar
stores in Africa.
On the international market, Oceanfresh
provides Hake to Walmart stores in the USA and
at the end of 2012 started also delivering Hake
into Sam’s Club stores in the USA. 
At Costco, from an initial supply of Oceanfresh
branded Hake in 2011, the product has sold
strongly and was upgraded to a Costco ‘Kirkland
Signature’ own brand line at the end of 2012. As
a result, it is currently being rolled out to every
Costco store worldwide.
Costco have also agreed two other ‘Kirkland
Signature’ lines to be supplied by Oceanfresh,
the ﬁrst of which has started to be supplied at
the end of 2012 and will see traction in 2013.
Lonrho Hake is also supplied to numerous other
markets, such as a rolling contract for supply to
United Airlines where it is served in ﬁrst and
business class, into commercial catering
companies, and other global retail chains.
On the East Coast of Africa, in 2012, Lonrho has
been awarded an exclusive ﬁve year tuna
catching licence for the coastal waters up to
200 miles off Mozambique. This will begin to be
operated with contracted vessels in mid-2013.
Also in Mozambique, the Oceanfresh processing
and handling facility in Maputo Port has been
upgraded to become the leading EU rated
facility in Mozambique for the export of lobsters,
langoustines and seafood. Mozambican lobsters
and langoustines are a highly sought after
commodity, that Lonrho supplies into markets
such as the USA, Switzerland and the Far East.
John Deere Equipment
Lonrho is the exclusive distributor of John Deere
agricultural equipment into Angola and
Mozambique and in 2012 also became the
exclusive distributor into Tanzania and South
Sudan. Lonrho also became the exclusive
distributer of John Deere construction
equipment into South Sudan in 2012. Lonrho
also distributes Komatsu equipment into
Mozambique.
As African agriculture develops, so the
requirement for equipment is forecast to grow.
Lonrho sees this business as synergistic with its
agricultural strategy to develop African
agriculture and support local production
capabilities.
John Deere agricultural equipment is a world
leading brand, beneﬁtting from excellent quality
products and decades of product development.
Lonrho strategy is to build long term market
share for its John Deere businesses. This is
established by a signiﬁcant focus on implements,
service, spare parts and maintenance. Each
Lonrho John Deere business is resourced with
the service capabilities and carries the spare
parts to support the equipment that has been
supplied. Lonrho sees this as an essential
commitment to its customers, and fundamental
in growing customer allegiance and long term
relationships.
As a result of this strategy, in 2012, Lonrho is
seeing strong growth in its agricultural
equipment businesses, driven by the expanding
markets in which it operates, but also by the
reliable and professional support provided by
each Lonrho John Deere distributor. Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23
Agribusiness V alue Chain
Refrigerated distribution to local and global markets
Low care
Products are cared for in their original  
form and packed for shipment.
High care
Value added products are processed,  
packaged and date stamped.
From field to fork From sea to shelf
Refrigerated transport
Lonrho Agribusiness trucking fleet transports  
produce to local cold stores.
Lonrho cold storage
Handling fresh, chilled and frozen products. 24
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Infrastructure
As Africa discovers an increasing quantity of commercially
viable oil and gas resources, so it requires the necessary
infrastructure to meet the demands of the expanding oil
and gas industry . Lonrho Ports provides the infrastructure
necessary for the oil and gas industry to operate its
exploration and production programmes in Africa.
Contribution to
Group T urnover
13% 
£23.5m
Revenue Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25
It is believed that 25% of the world’s oil and gas
reserves are in and around East and West Africa.
The Continent will play an increasingly signiﬁcant
role in meeting the world’s energy requirements
in the coming decades.
Large producing countries such as Angola and
Nigeria already have Government owned
infrastructure to support the industry, however
the smaller and newly producing countries still
need to develop the required infrastructure for
the industry. This is often made more critical as
existing, traditional, ports are already heavily
congested as they struggle to meet the growing
demand of general trade and are often incapable
of meeting the demands of a highly efficient new
industry.
Lonrho Ports developed a PPP (Public Private
Partnership) with the Government of Equatorial
Guinea in 2006 and has subsequently developed
Luba Freeport on Bioko Island in the Gulf of
Guinea to a position where it is forecast to handle
85%+ of all the oil and gas logistics for the
territorial waters of Equatorial Guinea. Lonrho
owns 63% of the PPP, the Government National
Oil Company, GEPETROL, 37%.
Luba Freeport has attracted the world’s leading
oil and gas support service companies to
become tenants and operate from Luba Freeport,
where Lonrho has developed 270 metres of deep
water quay and has 200 acres of land assigned as
a free trade zone exclusively for the oil and gas
industry.
Lonrho Ports has negotiated the sole rights to
develop a further oil and gas terminal in western
Ghana to support the burgeoning oil and gas
industry in the country. The potential client base
for the project is similar to Luba Freeport, and
Lonrho has now completed the site selection
process for the project, the feasibility study for
the project, the environmental impact
assessment , bathometric surveys, wave analysis
and construction tenders. Following the elections
in Ghana, it is hoped that the project will move
forward in the ﬁrst half of 2013.
Lonrho Ports believes that the opportunities exist
for further oil services terminals in both the East
and West coasts of Africa.
e-Kwikbuild
e-Kwikbuild manufactures and supplies quality
prefabricated buildings across Africa. Designed to
have a 30 year product life, e-Kwikbuild buildings
provide a fast-track solution for customers, at a
lower cost, than traditional construction methods
for buildings, and can be delivered and installed
much faster than traditionally built buildings.
e-Kwikbuild supplies buildings for a wide range of
applications, including classrooms, schools,
medical clinics, police stations, wards, offices,
workers’ camps and accommodation.
e-Kwikbuild’s clients range from Governments to
the private sector and e-Kwikbuild supplies and
installs buildings across southern Africa with
e-Kwikbuild contracts delivered in South Africa,
Angola, DRC, Mozambique, Lesotho, Uganda,
Kenya and Tanzania.
During 2012 e-Kwikbuild successfully won a large
tender for the supply of 398 school classrooms
to the Eastern Cape Province of South Africa. The
fulﬁlment of this contract has been challenging
for the Company due to the remote locations of
many of the school sites, which has impacted
both the delivery of materials to site, site security
and the ability to have on-site interaction with
the customer representatives. As a result, the
contract has over run and was not completed as
expected in 2012 but which will carry on into the
second quarter of  2013.
During 2012 a new CEO was appointed to
e-Kwikbuild  to move the strategic focus further
towards enlarging its private sector customer
base, supplying mining camps, offices and
medical clinics into the rest of Africa. 26
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Hotels
Lonrho Hotels division has had a strong year in 20 1 2
during which it has successfully added to its portfolio
of properties with the addition of the Lansmore Masa
Square in Botswana and the Grand Hotel Kinshasa in
the DRC.
Contribution to
Group T urnover
6% 
£11.9m
Revenue Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27
The strategic focus for the Lonrho Hotels brand
remains to supply quality corporate grade
accommodation for business travellers and
others visiting and trading in Africa. 
The Lonrho portfolio now includes ﬁve hotels;
Hotel Cardoso, Maputo, 
Mozambique 130 rooms
Grand Karavia Hotel, 
Lubumbashi, DRC 198 rooms
Lansmore, Gaborone, Botswana 158 rooms
Grand Hotel Kinshasa, Kinshasa, 
DRC (management contract) 220 rooms
(plus 200 under 
refurbishment by 
the owners) 
Leopard Rock, Mutare, 
Zimbabwe (management contract) 57 rooms
A number of further management agreements
are being negotiated across Sub-Saharan Africa
to increase the footprint for the Lonrho Hotels
brand and the number of properties on offer to
guests. 
Lonrho Hotels pays special attention to guests
needs, and takes pride in understanding the local
commercial environment and traditions around
each of its properties and being able to advise
guests accordingly.
With the portfolio of Lonrho Hotels extending its
geographical coverage, the division is seeing an
increasing ability for guests to make Lonrho
Hotels their hotel of choice as they travel in
Africa. 
easyHotel by Lonrho
The budget hotel market has been developed
successfully throughout the world. Lonrho
believes that this market is now applicable to the
growing African marketplace as consumer
spending increases, and has signed the exclusive
rights for Africa to the easyHotel brand. 
This product is aimed at the lower end business
traveller, who is seeking a safe, clean and
comfortable place to stay with good
communications but who travels on a budget.
Customers are not looking for the expensive frills
and costs of a four star hotel. The market sector
for this in Africa is undeveloped and underserved,
and Lonrho believes that it can roll-out a chain of
easyHotels by Lonrho across the Continent,
meeting this market opportunity. 
The ﬁrst easyHotel by Lonrho opened in
Johannesburg at the end of the ﬁrst quarter of
2013 and it is planned to grow this into a chain of
50 easyHotels by Lonrho across the Continent. 
Lonrho Hotels’ policy is not to build hotels or
develop a real estate portfolio, but rather to be a
recognised operator and manager of hotels, or in
exceptional circumstances, to lease hotel
properties.
Left to right:
Grand Kinshasa Hotel,
easyHotel de Korte St.
Johannesburg, a LONRHO
Hotel, Grand Karavia Hotel. 28
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Support Services
Lonrho plays an integral part in providing support services to 
businesses and organisations working in Africa.
Contribution to
Group T urnover
15% 
£27.0m
Revenue Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29
Africa is attracting larger and more international
companies to operate within the Continent as
global corporates increasingly understand the
potential size of the African opportunities.
Lonrho Support Services division provides ‘one
stop, single solution’ to clients operating in Africa.
The beneﬁts of a one stop solution to clients is
that they have a single point of contact for all
their support requirements, as opposed to having
multiple suppliers. This structure allows the
continuity of service and the quality of support to
be improved and provides a simple administrative
solution to clients, who pay a per person per day
fee for a comprehensive support service,
providing transport, logistics, accommodation,
catering, connectivity and security services under
one single contract.
The Support Services division has strong synergy
with Lonrho’s other activities in Africa and clients
that have used Lonrho Support Services in 2012
include Tullow, UN, USAID, Fluor, Barrick and
others.
Lonrho IT
Lonrho’s IT division works within the Support
Services division offering integrated IT solutions
to companies across Africa.
Lonrho IT comprises a number of leading IT
businesses in Africa: Bytes & Pieces, CES and
IndIT. Bytes & Pieces operates in Mozambique
and is the foremost commercial IT provider to
large corporates, banks and the Government.
Bytes & Pieces is a top tier Dell Certiﬁed Partner,
Microsoft Gold Certiﬁed Partner and authorised
reseller for CISCO Networking Systems and other
speciﬁc leading product lines. It provides full
systems design, integration, management and
maintenance services to its clients.
During 2012 Lonrho IT has developed operations
in Zambia, Zimbabwe and Namibia providing IT
services to corporates, banks and Governments,
representing the roll-out of the successful Bytes
& Pieces business model in Mozambique across a
growing African footprint.
AFEX Group 
AFEX headquarters are in Nairobi, Kenya – with
associated offices in South Sudan, Tanzania,
Uganda and the  United States. AFEX provides a
cost-effective solution speciﬁcally to remote site
project support needs and offers organisations an
opportunity to outsource to professionals with
extensive regional experience. The company has
built a reputation for providing the highest
standard of service in remote areas and often
under harsh and difficult conditions. Specialists in
rapid response, AFEX delivers immediate
assistance and support in international
emergencies.
AFEX owns the largest accommodation camp in
Juba in South Sudan, River Camp, which is the
premier place to stay for visitors to South Sudan.
Clients in 2012 include corporates such as
Deloitte, USAID, UN, World Bank, oil companies
and others working in the region as South Sudan
goes through the transition post-independence.
South Sudan has signiﬁcant oil reserves and other
natural resources and potential, all of which are
largely undeveloped.
Arlington Associates
Arlington Associates is an entity in which the
Group has a 25% interest and charges a
management fee. It has implemented an initial
contract with the Government of Nigeria for the
inspection of crude oil and gas exported from
Nigeria. The process is governed by the Nigerian
Export Supervisory Scheme (NESS) which was
established as Law 10/96. Arlington was
appointed to assist in the monitoring role by
Presidential Decree in 2012.  Inspection is
primarily intended as veriﬁcation of what is being
exported and at what price so the Central Bank
can have a clearer understanding of the revenues
and taxes associated with the country’s primary
income. 
Monitoring and evaluation has various
components which are being trialled and the
overall purpose is to create a comprehensive and
robust export veriﬁcation organisation and
process for the Ministry of Finance and the
Nigerian Oil and Gas Industries, including both
monitoring and inspection, in order to minimise
export fraud and improve ﬁnancial oversight with
the objective of increasing Government
revenues.
AFEX Security  Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Group Performance
In 2012 the Group deliberately reduced its
acquisition activity and concentrated on bedding
in recent acquisitions and stimulating organic
growth across each sector. This resulted in
strong sales growth across each division and
improvement in the Group’s gross margins from
26.9% to 28.9%.
In September the Executive Directors carried out
a thorough review of the Group’s strategy with an
emphasis on driving proﬁtability ahead of
prioritising top-line growth. The impact of this
was the withdrawal from certain distribution
contracts within the Agribusiness division and a
much more rigorous assessment of new business
across the Group. The full beneﬁt of these
decisions will be seen in 2013 and beyond but
the short-term impact saw revenue in certain
parts of the business fall.
Financial
Review
The Group continues to grow
rapidly largely through organic
growth but also assisted by new
business start-ups in key markets
and the maturing of recent
acquisitions. Margin improvements
and cashflow delivery are the
priorities for the Group moving
forwards.
David Armstrong
Finance Director
30 Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31
Revenue from core operating divisions for the 12 months to 31 December 2012 was £186.3m
compared with £152.9m for the 15 months to 31 December 2011.
Full Year
Reported
Growth
vs 15 *Adjusted
12 months to months to *Adjusted like-for-like
December December like-for-like (Constant
2012 2011 growth FX)
Continuing Operations £m
Revenue
Agribusiness 123.6 30.8% 12.8% 24.5%
Infrastructure 23.5 7.8% 25.9% 30.4%
Support Services 27.0 7.6% 20.5% 19.9%
Hotels 11.9 3.5% 12.4% 9.7%
Other 0.3
Core Divisions 186.3 21.8% 15.4% 23.6%
Transportation 20.2
Lonrho Plc 206.5
On an adjusted like-for-like basis at constant currency* revenue in the 12 months to 31 December 2012
has increased across all four divisions, with an overall increase of 23.6%. This ﬁgure demonstrates the
underlying strength of businesses in the Group and the value Lonrho is able to add to new acquisitions.
A diagrammatic representation of the increase in like-for-like revenue from core operating divisions is set
out below:
* Adjusted like-for-like ﬁgures include acquisitions (pre-acquisition comparables based on unaudited management accounts),
exclude start-up businesses trading for less than 12 months and are adjusted to the comparable 12 month period January to
December and constant currency.
Net operating proﬁt/(loss) is used as a consistent non-GAAP measure of business performance year-to-
year. It is deﬁned in accounting policy 3(w). In the 12 months to 31 December 2012 net operating loss
from core operating divisions was £3.4m, compared with net operating proﬁt of £20.6m in the 15 months
to December 2011. However, the 2011 proﬁt included a one-off gain of £15.8m in respect of assets
purchased below fair value. In 2012 the value of biological asset gains were £9.2m compared with £27.4m
in the comparative period.
Return on Equity
As the Group’s core businesses mature, the Board has started to develop and evaluate what would be the
most appropriate way of setting and measuring long-term ﬁnancial performance across each division,
taking into account the different business models, market sectors and geographic mix of the business.
The Board has chosen Return on Equity as the initial measure on which to focus and this will be
implemented during the 2013 ﬁnancial year.
Return on equity (a non-IFRS ﬁnancial measure) is deﬁned as attributable proﬁt to owners of the company
for the preceding twelve months divided by the opening shareholder equity at the beginning of the
relevant 12 month period. Benchmarks have been set at Group and divisional level to allow comparison
with companies operating in the same sectors which also supported the development of long term
targets. The Group is not yet performing at the target levels but the Board will expect to see progress
towards these benchmarks over the course of each ﬁnancial year.
 
120
130
140
150
160
170
180
190
2011
Agribusiness
Infrastructure
Support Services
Hotels
2012
£m Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
32
Transfer of the Transportation Division to a Jointly Controlled Entity
By the end of 2011 the Transportation Division (trading as Fly540) had successfully created the foundation
of its network with three strategic operational hubs in Kenya, Angola and Ghana. As the business reviewed
its options for growth Lonrho entered into discussions with Rubicon Diversiﬁed Investments Plc (later
renamed as FastJet Plc (“FastJet Plc”)) and easyGroup, the investment vehicle of Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou
(the founder of easyJet Plc) about a potential strategic co-operation.
On 29 June 2012 the Transportation division (headed by Lonrho Aviation BVI) was transferred to FastJet
Plc at a market value of US$85.7m (£55.7m) in exchange for shares representing approximately a 73.6%
equity interest in FastJet Plc. FastJet Plc is considered to be a jointly controlled entity as Lonrho does not
exercise control over the business but is capable of doing so by acting jointly with easyGroup. In
accordance with IFRS 3 the resulting interest in FastJet Plc was recognised at its fair value and the
resulting gain recognised in the income statement. Up to 31 December 2012 Lonrho’s shareholding had
been diluted to approximately 63% through subsequent equity raises by FastJet Plc.
The Group records jointly controlled entities initially at cost, and thereafter cost, plus share of results, less
provision of impairments. These investments are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether
there is any objective evidence that it is impaired and if any such indication exists, an impairment charge is
recorded in the income statement. Due to current market conditions experienced by FastJet Plc, an
impairment review has been carried out which resulted in an impairment charge being recorded in the
income statement of £7.7m.
In Lonrho’s ﬁnancial statements the results of the Transportation Division are consolidated for the ﬁrst 6
months of the year. In the second half of the year the income statement only includes the Group’s share
of the results of the jointly controlled entity. FastJet Plc has not released its audited results for the period
to 31 December 2012 at the date of this report and, accordingly, the Directors have included an estimate
of the Group’s share of results of FastJet Plc for the period from 29 June 2012 to 31 December 2012. The
table below sets out the full impact on the Group income statement. A full explanation of the impact is
set out in Note 11 to the ﬁnancial statements.
£m
Revenue 20.2
Cost of sales (16.7)
GROSS PROFIT 3.5
Operating costs (9.9)
Depreciation (1.1)
Net interest payable (1.4)
OPERATING LOSS (8.9)
Amortisation (0.5)
LOSS BEFORE TAX (6 Months to June 2012) (9.4)
Gain on contribution of subsidiary to jointly controlled entity 33.5
Share of jointly controlled entity results to 31 December 2012 (10.6)
Impairment of jointly controlled entity at 31 December 2012 (7.7)
PROFIT BEFORE TAX FOR YEAR FROM TRANSPORTATION ACTIVITIES 5.8
Financial Review continued Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
Associate companies and investments
During 2012 the Board took the decision to focus on its core operating sectors and to exit from its
associate and investment holdings. The three key holdings affected were Cambria Africa Plc (formerly
LonZim Plc), Lucapo Diamond Company Limited (formerly Lonrho Mining Limited) and SouthWest Energy
(an oil exploration company based in Ethiopia). The ﬁnancial impact of these disposals is shown below:
Carrying
Shareholding at value at Shares of
31 December 31 December Results prior Gain/(loss)
2011 2011 Impairment to disposal on Disposal Total
Company £m £m £m £m £m
Cambria Africa 22.92% 5.9 (2.0) (2.6) (0.2) (4.8)
Lucapo Diamond 13.96% 1.0 – – 0.4 0.4
SouthWest Energy 2.40% 1.3 – – (0.3) (0.3)
Total 8.2 (2.0) (2.6) (0.1) (4.7)
Lonrho still retains its 20% holding in Swissta DRC, a water bottling company. At 31 December 2012, the
carrying value for this investment was £0.1m.
Change of accounting reference date
The Company's accounting reference date was changed from 30 September to 31 December in 2011.
Accordingly, the 2012 comparative ﬁgures shown in these ﬁnancial statements are in respect of the
15 months period to 31 December 2011.
The change has aligned the Lonrho accounting period with the statutory obligations in various countries
where the Group operates and where December year end is a legal requirement.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings/(loss) per share as deﬁned by IAS33 were 0.11 pence loss per share (2011: 0.49 pence
earnings per share).
Dividend
The Board do not recommend the payment of a dividend (2011: £nil).
The Directors keep under review the capital structure of the Group, with the objective of adopting a
progressive, prudent dividend policy once the Company has sufficient distributable reserves and has
achieved a level of sustained proﬁtability, taking into account the Group’s ﬁnancial position, underlying
earnings and cash ﬂows, the resources required for the Group’s development and the prevailing market
outlook.
Key factors driving growth of the business
The Group continues to grow rapidly through a combination of organic growth, integration of
acquisitions and new business start-ups. During the year the Group made progress in all three aspects.
Acquisitions
During the year the Group deliberately reduced its acquisition activity in order to concentrate on the core
business portfolio and to complete the transfer of the Transportation Division into FastJet Plc. One small
acquisition was completed, the purchase of LonAgro Tanzania, as management continued its strategy of
identifying bolt-on acquisitions which complement its existing business models.
Pre-
Acquisition
Carrying
Consideration Value of Fair Value Net Assets
Paid Assets Adjustments Acquired Goodwill
Company Division £m £m £m £m £m
LonAgro Tanzania Agribusiness 0.9 – 0.9 0.9 – Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
34
Business Start-ups
In addition to the acquisitive growth seen by the Group, Lonrho furthered its expansion by taking existing
business models into new territories. New business start-ups in the period are set out in the table below:
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure in the period amounted to £14.3m (2011: £43.4m). The largest part of this expenditure
was £7.2m in Agribusiness to increase production in the farming operations, new cold storage facilities at
Oceanfresh and expansion of the John Deere business into Tanzania and South Sudan.
Outside the Agribusiness division, the main expenditure on ﬁxed assets has been at Luba Freeport where
approximately £3m was spent on development and expansions for the port. Within the Hotels division a
further £3m of capital expenditure was incurred, mainly in relation to the opening of Lansmore Masa
Square Hotel.
Capital structure and Group ﬁnancing
The pace of growth of the Group, especially within the Agribusiness division, has enabled a wider range of
ﬁnancing options to be put in place to support the business. The ongoing capital structure of the Group
reﬂects the judgement of the Directors as to the appropriate balance of funding required.
During the period the Group completed the following key funding activities:
• Lonrho Agribusiness secured additional divisional funding through Standard Chartered Bank in the
period drawing down US$13m from a pre-existing headroom facility.
• Oceanfresh secured a multi-currency, multi-jurisdictional trade ﬁnance facility from Standard
Chartered Bank for up to US$25m. This facility covers ﬁnancing of the full product life cycle from Letter
of Credit through stock ﬁnancing to sales invoice ﬁnancing with speciﬁc focus on the growth of the
Oceanfresh business in the USA and Asia.
• Lonrho Hotels issued £2.4m promissory notes with Botswana Insurance Fund Management to ﬁnance
the purchase of furniture, ﬁttings and equipment at the new Lansmore Masa Square Hotel. The notes
are repayable over three years from 2020.
In total repayments of bank debt and other ﬁnancing liabilities of £6.6m were made during the year. At
31 December 2012 the Group had undrawn facilities amounting to £7.3m.
Business Sector Start-up Date Description
Lansmore
Masa Square 
(100%
shareholding)
Hotels July 2012 The new property was opened as ‘Lansmore
Hotel by Lonrho’, Lonrho Hotels four/ﬁve-star
brand and in the heart of the central business
district.  It is expected that the property will
become the hotel of choice for those visiting
Gaborone.
LonAgro 
South Sudan
(100%
shareholding)
Agribusiness November 2012 With the completion of the facilities in
South Sudan, trading at LonAgro began in
November. The business is working on signiﬁcant
orders from major agricultural projects as well as
sales to individual farmers.
CES 
Namibia
(50%
shareholding)
Support Services November 2012 The CES franchise, grown from the blueprint
built by Bytes & Pieces in Mozambique, has now
been rolled-out to Namibia. The business will
provide IT hardware and support services to
businesses and organisations.
Arlington
Associates
(25%
shareholding)
Support Services April 2012 This new business start-up in the Support
Services division implemented an initial contract
with the Government of Nigeria for the
inspection of crude oil and gas exported from
Nigeria.
Financial Review continued Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35
Capitalisation and indebtedness
During the period the Group has undergone signiﬁcant changes with regard to the composition of its
balance sheet and facilities available to the Group have appreciably increased. The table below sets out
some of the changes which have been seen in the period.
31 December 31 December
2012 2011
£m £m
Total Shareholder Funds 174.2 155.7
Total Current Debt 30.0 20.1
Total Non-Current Debt 77.6 95.3
Guaranteed 43.0 44.4
Unguaranteed 34.6 50.9
Cash at bank 17.0 12.7
Net indebtedness* 87.2 99.1
* Excludes loans from minority shareholders
Finance costs
Net ﬁnance expense including foreign exchange gain/(loss) for the period was £9.1m (2011: £9.4m) and of
this total, £1.4m related to the Aviation division in the period prior to disposal. The total cost also includes
a non-cash charge of £2.3m in respect of accrued redemption premium on the Convertible Bond.
The average cost of ﬁnance across the Group's debt facilities was 7.3% compared with an average interest
cost in 2011 of 8.4%.
Treasury activity
The Group Treasury activities are overseen by the Executive Committee which includes the Group's
Finance Director and the Group Treasurer. All treasury activities are managed in accordance with the
framework of treasury policies and guidelines approved by the Board. A key principle of these policies is
that speculative trading in ﬁnancial instruments is prohibited, and such instruments are used solely for risk
management purposes. All borrowings are overseen by the Finance Director and Group Treasurer. Surplus
funds are invested with suitably creditworthy counterparties and in such a way as to ensure liquidity is
available when required. The credit status of counterparties is kept under regular review.
Currency
The Group's objective is to reduce its exposure to volatility in earnings and cashﬂows from movements in
foreign currency exchange rates. The Group is exposed to a number of foreign currencies, the most
signiﬁcant being the US Dollar and the South African Rand. Currency risk is broken down into
Transactional Risk and Translation Risk.
Transactional risk
The Group is increasingly exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates in respect of foreign
currency denominated transactions, most notably from the export of products from Africa to the USA,
Europe and Asia. To mitigate this risk the Group has commenced to hedge clearly identiﬁable and
material transaction exposures through the use of internal netting, forward foreign exchange contracts,
swaps and options as appropriate. There were no signiﬁcant foreign exchange ﬁnancial instruments
extant at 31 December 2012 requiring recognition at market value on the Group balance sheet.
Translation risk
The Group is also exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates in respect of the translation
of the net assets and income statements of foreign subsidiaries and Group borrowings denominated in
currencies other than sterling. The Group does not seek to fully hedge the translation effect of these
movements, but mitigates its exposure where it is possible to match the currency denominations
exposures of assets and liabilities. This objective is secondary to ensuring that obligations are matched as
closely as possible to the currency of trading cash ﬂows generated.
Interest rates
Given the historically low interest rates in certain of the currencies in which the Group has borrowings,
and to provide certainty over future cash ﬂow requirements, the Group has intentionally increased the
proportion of debt bearing interest at ﬁxed rates. During the year, the amounts outstanding under term
loan facilities in the Agribusiness division were hedged by way of a ﬁxed-for-ﬂoating interest rate swap,
meaning that the interest obligation is no longer vulnerable to changes in reference rates over the full
facility value and term. The market value of this interest rate swap is recognised on the Group balance
sheet.
As at 31 December 2012, 72% of Group debt instruments bore interest at ﬁxed rates, compared with 57%
at 31 December 2011. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
36
Working capital management
Cash and working capital positions are monitored on a daily and weekly basis from Head Office. This
enables surplus cash resources to be deployed in the most effective manner and the Group’s trade
receivable and payable days to be managed. At 31 December 2012 both trade receivables and trade
payable days reduced to 50 days (2011: 56 days) and 59 days (2011: 85 days) respectively. However, on a
like-for-like basis (excluding the Transportation division) trade receivables reduced to 55 days from 61
days at 31 December 2011 and trade payables had reduced from 75 to 66 days.
Taxation
The Group had a tax credit of £0.3m (2011: tax charge of £0.3m). This tax credit largely comprises local
corporation tax payable in respect of the Group's proﬁtable operating subsidiaries offset by deferred tax
credits.
The Group utilises available tax losses to offset corporation tax liabilities wherever possible. The Group is
carrying out a full review of its corporate structure in order to ensure maximum tax efficiency on future
proﬁtability as it arises.
David Armstrong
Finance Director
27 March 2013 Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
Corporate
Responsibility
As a Group operating in eighteen African countries
and in sectors as diverse as agribusiness, hotels,
infrastructure and support services, Lonrho’s
approach to corporate responsibility reflects the
variety of risks and opportunities faced by its
businesses. At the same time, stakeholders need to
depend upon a sufficiently consistent approach that
they can understand what to expect from the Lonrho
brand of companies.
Using a principles
and values based
framework, the
Group is applying
a more strategic
and consistent
approach to
corporate
responsibility .
Lonrho continues to support the United Nations
Global Compact with its ten principles in the area
of human rights, labour, environment and anti-
corruption. These principles are also consistent
with the Group’s own corporate responsibility
values which were developed in 2011 and
continue to be embedded across all of its
operations. 
2012 has been a year of review of the Group’s
corporate responsibility practices, a focus on our
management systems and the establishment of
minimum requirements for all subsidiaries.
At head office, Lonrho’s Directors and some of
the divisional managers have received training on
environmental and social risk management. Our
business development processes now
incorporate a requirement to take into account
these risks at the earliest stages of a transaction
proposal and subsidiaries must report quarterly
not only on their business operations but also on
any corporate responsibility issues that may have
arisen or been addressed in their operations. 
A number of corporate policies and procedures
on Environmental Management, Community
Investment, Human Resources, Human Rights,
Local Procurement, Stakeholder Engagement,
Quality Management, and Whistleblowing have
either been updated or are under development
(incorporating full consultation with our
subsidiaries).
The Company has attained ISO 14001 on
Environmental Management Systems and
ISO 9001 for Quality Management.
The system of having corporate responsibility
officers in each subsidiary is having a valuable
effect to improve and embed a more consistent
understanding of how to practically apply
Lonrho’s corporate responsibility values. To
encourage excellence, in 2012 the Company
announced there would be an internal annual
competition for the best corporate responsibility
programme of an operating company, the Cook
Award. 
Luba Freeport has been awarded the Cook Award
in 2012 in recognition for their outstanding
approach to improving the opportunities
available to their staff and the surrounding
communities. Through a comprehensive
programme of occupational training and
education for members of the community, many
lives have been improved at Luba. The award was
presented in February 2013 and includes a
donation to a local charity supported by the
subsidiary and a bonus to the manager and team
involved in the work. 
During 2013, Lonrho will develop a number of
non-ﬁnancial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
relating to each corporate responsibility value.
Baselines will then be captured and reported
against in future Annual Reports. 
A short description of some practical activities
that Lonrho has taken to implement its ﬁve
corporate responsibility values and the UN Global
Compact principles is presented below. More
detail on such activities are found on the
subsidiaries’ own websites. 
Investing in our workforce and their wellbeing 
(UN Global Compact Labour Principles)
We have updated all human resources policies
and procedures for staff at headquarters and are
working with all our subsidiaries to ensure that
minimum requirements are achieved across the
Group in 2013. 
In August 2012, Luba Freeport presented to the
Ministry of Labour in Equatorial Guinea the Luba
Freeport nationalisation programme. This
programme is designed to maximise the number
of local staff at Luba– currently 80 per cent. All
new employment opportunities are advertised in
the Ministry of Labour, local tv and radio. Training
of the local workforce in a wide range of
occupational skills has enabled Luba Freeport to
consistently meet international standards of
operations.
Oceanfresh successfully completed an external
social audit undertaken by Intertek Group Plc on
behalf of Costco in May 2012. It will be repeated
each year. 
Lonrho Logistics is on track to attain the
international standard ISO 18001 on
Occupational Health and Safety at its
Johannesburg, Cape Town, George and Port
Elizabeth branches in South Africa. 38
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Corporate Responsibility continued
Luba regularly assist the local hospital by supplying medicines and mosquito nets and providing the
assistance of Dr. Suhas Narayan Patil (above) with consultations or medical procedures.
Supporting communities
We will be developing a Group Community
Investment Policy and a Group Stakeholder
Engagement Policy during 2013.
In 2012, Lonrho concluded a Feasibility Study into
a planned Oil Services Terminal in the Western
Region of Ghana. Throughout the Feasibility
Study, which included a full Environmental and
Social Impact Assessment, Lonrho has prioritised
its engagement with stakeholders in the project
area. By directly engaging with the three
communities who stand to be most affected by
the project, Lonrho has established constructive
relationships which reﬂect mutual respect and
trust. As well as holding regular meetings with
traditional leaders and government
representatives, Lonrho continues to discuss the
project and its expected impacts with
development agencies, non-governmental
organisations and local stakeholders such as
ﬁshermen, farmers, women and the elderly. Such
consultations provide important input into the
design of both mitigation measures and ways to
enhance the wealth of opportunities the project
is anticipated to bring.
Lonrho realised that often stakeholder
engagement activities can overlook the
importance of involving local children. However,
it is especially important for children to be
informed and engaged by the opportunities
envisaged. A special art project was created, with
the support of the local primary and junior
schools in each community. Each school was
visited and the proposed Oil Services Terminal
explained. Pictures of rigs, vessels, cranes and a
graphic representation of the terminal were
posted on the community noticeboards. Paper,
crayons, pencils and paints were distributed to
each school and children were asked to use their
imagination and draw their vision of the new Oil
Services Terminal. The children and the schools
put in a huge amount of effort and we are
grateful for their support in the project. Each
school put forward its best pictures and members
of the Livelihood Restoration Committee
selected a winner from each school with one
overall winner. Prizes, including a new computer
for the school, were awarded in November 2012
by the Vice President of Ghana’s wife, Mrs Matilda
Amissah-Arthur.
Conducting our business with integrity (UN
Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principles)
In addition to the Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Policy, Lonrho has developed a Whistle-blowing
Policy, which has been disseminated throughout
the Group. To date no incidents have been
reported.
Strengthening the local economy
Research has shown that companies already
operating on the Continent are overwhelmingly
positive about Africa’s prospects and potential. In
contrast, those who do not currently invest are
surprisingly pessimistic. Lonrho is therefore
excited to announce that it has become a
founding partner in a new initiative, ‘Invest in
Africa’ (IIA). IIA aims to challenge the perceptions
of business on the Continent and so inspire new
partnership with local African companies to grow
markets and deliver enterprise. 
By harnessing the ﬁrst-hand experience and
knowledge of ﬁrms which have been successfully
working in Africa for many years, IIA will bridge
this gap between perception and reality. IIA will
work to demystify the investment process, create
new partnerships and drive growth into local
economies and wider development. 
Luba Freeport medical facility . Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
Lonrho’s subsidiaries are now keeping records of
the extent to which they source goods and
services from local companies and are
encouraged to develop their own local
procurement policies. Levels of local
procurement will become a Key Performance
Indicator for the Group to report on in due
course.
Hotel Cardoso also provides a complimentary
venue at its Café Accaccia for a monthly trade fair
of locally produced handicrafts.
Environmental stewardship
(UN Global Compact’s Environment Principles)
The Company has become certiﬁed for ISO
14001. In 2013, subsidiaries will be encouraged to
also achieve this international standard in their
own operations.
In line with forthcoming UK legislation, Lonrho is
planning to record greenhouse gas emissions
across its operations and will report on these in
future  Annual Reports.
Oceanfresh is an active certiﬁed member of the
Marine Stewardship Council – Chain of Custody,
an active member of the World Wildlife Fund’s
South African Sustainable Seafood Initiative and
has passed an international audit on sustainability
and traceability.
As resource security and climate change are
interconnected, and in light of the growing
recognition of the effects that a change in
climate is going to have on business, a number of
measures have been implemented.
Across the Group, water use is being more
closely monitored and efforts made to reduce
consumption and re-use water and recycle
where appropriate. For example, Fresh Direct has
conducted responsible irrigation training to
employees to educate on the sustainable use of
water and the importance of maintaining
irrigation systems to reduce water waste. In 2013,
it is planning to create a drought action plan with
a view to helping local communities, where
possible. 
In addition all Lonrho companies are being
encouraged to reduce their energy consumption.
For example, AFEX has installed solar powered
hot water at its accommodation facilities in Juba,
and Rumbek in South Sudan and Lokichoggio in
Kenya. 
All Lonrho companies are also being encouraged
to reduce, re-use and recycle materials used in
their operations. 
Lonrho Logistics tests all vehicles for carbon
emissions and has introduced fuel saver plans by
using locally developed fuel additives to reduce
fuel consumption and carbon emissions on all
ﬂeet vehicles.
UN Global Compact Human Rights Principles
Lonrho’s approach to corporate responsibility
does not include a stand-alone value on
respecting human rights because it is covered
across its other ﬁve corporate responsibility
values. However, a Group Human Rights Policy is
being developed in consultation with our
subsidiaries. It will reﬂect new international
guidance on how businesses must respect
human rights and will guide the Group on how to
identify and avoid human rights risks in
operations.
Above and top right: Luba Freeport sponsored school, Centro Prescolar Virgin de Montserrat.  40
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
1. Ambassador Frances Cook (67, American)
Chairman
Chair: Nomination and Corporate 
Responsibility Committees
A former U.S. Ambassador to Burundi, to
Cameroon and to the Sultanate of Oman,
Ambassador Cook also held numerous senior
positions in the Department of State, including
Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Refugee
Programs, and Deputy Assistant Secretary of
State for Political-Military Affairs, Consul General
in Alexandria, Egypt, and Director for West Africa.
She transitioned to the private sector in May
1999, where she runs an international business
consulting ﬁrm, The Ballard Group LLC.
Ambassador Cook is a Distinguished Senior
Fellow at the Center for Naval Analyses, and a
member of the Council on Foreign Relations and
Phi Beta Kappa. She also serves on the Board of
Trustees of Center for American 0verseas
Research Centers, and the Institute for American
Universities (Aix-en-Provence, France), as well as
a board member for various NGOs which work in
Africa and the Middle East. She was educated at
the Universities of Virginia, Harvard and the
Universite d'Aix-Marseille. She also holds an
Honorary LLM.
She was appointed a Non-Executive Director on
23 0ctober 2007 and was appointed Chairman
on 13 September 2012.
Board of Directors
1.
2.
3.
5.
4.
6. Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
2. Geoffrey White (52, British)
Director & Chief Executive Officer
Geoffrey White holds a BSc in Economics and
Management Science and joined the Board of
Lonrho Plc on 5 0ctober 2007, having been Chief
Operating Officer from 1 May 2007. During his
career he has held senior management roles with
Thomas Tilling Plc, BTR Plc, Dee Corporation Plc,
Asda Plc and latterly worked for ﬁve years for a
private investment ﬁrm based in London. He has
been responsible for the planning, ﬁnancing,
development and management of a range of
projects in the hotel, industrial and natural
resource sectors.
He is also an Executive Director of FastJet Plc
and was formerly an Executive Director and Chief
Executive Officer of Cambria Africa Plc (formerly
LonZim Plc).
3. David Armstrong (48, British)
Finance Director
David Armstrong (FCA) joined Lonrho Plc as
Finance Director on 1 December 2008 and brings
with him extensive experience of operating
across Africa having been the Commercial
Director of Diageo Africa with combined
functional responsibility for ﬁnance, information
systems, strategy and business development. He
contributed to the successful deployment of
Diageo's pan-African growth strategy,
encompassing over 50 countries. He also held
roles previously with PepsiCo and Compass
Group Plc and was also the COO of
McArtherGlen in the UK and Europe.
He was formerly the Finance Director of Cambria
Africa Plc (formerly Lonzim Plc).
4. Emma Priestley (40, British)
Executive Director
Emma Priestley was appointed Executive Director
on 24 February 2006, having worked in
investment banking for the previous ﬁve years
following a career as a mining engineer. She has
a background in mining and ﬁnancial services
having worked with consultants IMC Mackay &
Schnellman, investment bank CSFB, advisers VSA
Resources and Ambrian Partners, where she
worked as a corporate broker and adviser. Emma
is a graduate of Camborne School of Mines, a
Chartered Mining Engineer and Chartered
Mineral Surveyor.
She was formerly an Executive Director of
Cambria Africa Plc (formerly Lonzim Plc).
5. Kiran Morzaria (38, British)
Senior Independent Director
Chair: Audit and Remuneration Committees
Kiran Morzaria holds a Bachelor of Engineering
(Industrial Geology) from the Camborne School
of Mines and an MBA (Finance) from CASS
Business School. He has thirteen years of
experience in the mineral resource industry
covering gold and diamonds. Mr Morzaria spent
his ﬁrst four years in exploration, mining and civil
engineering. After completing his MBA in 2003
he was appointed Finance Director of Vatukoula
Gold Mines Plc in 2004. He has served on several
other boards in the role of Non-Executive
Director and covered numerous industries
including retail, technology, oil and gas and
mining. Apart for his roles as Finance Director of
Vatukoula Gold Mines Plc and as a Non-
Executive Director of Lonrho Plc, Mr Morzaria
holds no other directorships of publicly listed
entities. 
He was appointed a Non-Executive Director on
28 September 2010.
6. Jean Ellis (43, British)
Non-Executive Director
Jean Ellis is a Chartered Accountant and
Chartered Tax Adviser, and holds an Insolvency
Practitioner's license. She is the senior partner in
the regional ﬁrm of Chartered Accountants,
Duncan Sheard Glass, having been a partner
there since 2002. Prior to this, she was Group
Financial Controller and Tax Manager with
Lonrho Plc and holds a number of directorships
for its subsidiary companies. Jean has a Bachelor
of Arts Degree in Pure Mathematics from
Liverpool University. She was formerly Finance
Director of Lonrho Plc, having been appointed on
1 June 2007, and became a Non-Executive
Director on 1 December 2008.
She was formerly a Non-Executive Director of
Cambria Africa Plc (formerly Lonzim Plc). 42
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Combined Code compliance
Lonrho is committed to good corporate governance across the
Group, for which the whole Board is accountable.
The principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on
the London Stock Exchange are contained in The UK Corporate
Governance Code (“the Combined Code”) that is appended to the
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Listing Rules require all companies with a premium listing of
equity shares (incorporated in the UK) to report on the extent to
which they comply with the provisions of the Combined Code and to
explain and justify any non-compliance. The Company did not fully
comply with the Combined Code as at 31 December 2012 because:
1. The composition of the Board and its Remuneration, Audit and
Nomination Committees was not consistent with the
recommendations of the Combined Code as detailed on pages
43 and 46 to 48.
2. In addition, whilst the Company has a separate Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer, the former Chairman had a signiﬁcant
executive function due to his ambassadorial role within the
Group and as he provided entrepreneurial leadership with regard
to the strategy of the Group. The Board made the decision to
appoint David Lenigas as Chairman whilst retaining his executive
role following consultation with major shareholders. Mr Lenigas
left the Company on 13 September 2012 and Ambassador
Frances Cook, who was the Senior Independent Director at that
date, was appointed Non-Executive Chairman in his place.
The Company will continue to monitor its corporate governance
framework to ensure that it remains appropriate for the Company,
having regard to the scale and complexity of its business.
Board composition
The Board currently comprises six Directors: a Non-Executive
Chairman, three Executive Directors and two Non-Executive
Directors.
During the year, Sir Richard Needham resigned from the Board as a
Non-Executive Director on 28 May 2012 and David Lenigas
resigned as Executive Chairman on 13 September 2012.
The biographies of all members of the current Board are set out on
pages 40 to 41.
Role of the Board
UK company law requires Directors to act in a way they consider,
in good faith, would promote the success of the Company for the
beneﬁt of shareholders as a whole. In doing so, the Directors must
have regard (amongst other things) to:
• the likely consequence of any decision in the long term
• the interests of Lonrho employees
• the need to foster business relationships with suppliers,
customers and others
• the impact of operations on the community and the
environment
• the desirability of maintaining a reputation for high standards of
business conduct
• the need to act fairly as between shareholders
In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure that
the Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
Its role includes the establishment, review and monitoring of
strategic objectives, approval of major acquisitions, disposals,
capital expenditure and ﬁnancing arrangements, and to the
Group’s systems of internal control, governance and risk
management. It also ensures adequate succession planning for
senior management and monitors policies and performance on
corporate responsibility.
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Group:
the Executive Directors are directly responsible for running the
business operations and the Non-Executive Directors are
responsible for constructively challenging proposals on strategy,
scrutinising the performance of management, determining levels
of remuneration and for succession planning for the Executive
Directors. The Non-Executive Directors must also satisfy
themselves on the integrity of ﬁnancial information and that
controls and systems of risk management are robust.
The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis and exercises
control over the performance of each operating company within
the Group by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring
performance against those targets.
Following presentations by executive management and a
disciplined process of review and challenge by the Board, clear
decisions on the policy and strategy are adopted and the executive
management are fully empowered to implement those decisions.
The powers of the Board are set out in a formal schedule of
matters reserved for Board approval. These matters are signiﬁcant
to the Group as a whole due to their strategic, ﬁnancial,
operational or reputational implications.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed and
updated regularly.
A summary of those matters is set out below. 
Summary of matters reserved for the Board:
• the approval of the Group’s long term objectives and
commercial strategy;
• the approval of the Group’s annual budgets and material
changes to them;
• the extension of the Group’s activities into new businesses or
geographic areas;
• changes to the Group’s capital structure – both debt and equity;
• ensuring maintenance of a sound and effective system of
internal controls and risk management processes;
• approval of material transactions, major capital projects and
material contracts and conduct of material litigation;
• composition of the Board and the remuneration and the reward
of the Directors, company secretary and other senior executives;
and
• the Group’s corporate governance framework.
Chairman/Chief Executive Officer functions
The Chairman is responsible for leading and managing the Board and
ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, and setting the
Board agenda taking into account the issues and concerns of all
Board members. She provides strategic guidance to the executive
management and promotes the highest standards of corporate
governance. She is responsible for maintaining close contact with
major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns and
ensuring that they are regularly informed of the progress and
direction of the Company. The Chairman is fully engaged on all
issues on which the Board will need to make a decision through
ongoing consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and members
of the executive management.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading the Executive
Directors and the senior team in the day to day running of the
Group’s businesses and, in particular, for developing the Group’s
objectives, strategy and annual budgets having regard to the Group’s
Corporate Governance Statement Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and other
stakeholders and for achieving those objectives, executing that
strategy and achieving that budget following approval from the
Board. The Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for, amongst
other matters, leading the Executive Committee examining all trade
investments and major capital expenditure proposed by Group
companies, leading geographical and sector diversiﬁcation initiatives
and ensuring effective internal controls and risk management
systems are in place.
Due to the nature of the risks associated with working in Africa, the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer work to have a close
understanding of each other’s roles to minimise risk and maximise
continuity.
Senior Independent Director
The Combined Code also recommends that the Board should
appoint one of the Independent Directors as the Senior Independent
Director to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve
as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary. The Senior
Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have
concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors has failed to
resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate. The Board has
appointed Kiran Morzaria as its Senior Independent Director.
Non-Executive Directors 
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of the
executive management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and
monitor the reporting of performance. They will review the integrity
of the ﬁnancial information and determine whether internal controls
and systems of risk management are robust. They also determine
appropriate levels of remuneration of the Executive Directors and are
involved in the appointment and, where necessary, the removal of
Executive Directors. They also monitor succession planning. 
Appointments to the Board
The Company’s Articles of Association empower the Board to
appoint new Directors. To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent
procedure for appointing new Directors to the Board, a Nomination
Committee has been created, whose work is described on 
page 48.
In order for any Board to discharge its duties and responsibilities
effectively, it must comprise the right blend of individuals, whose
skills and experience were gained in a diverse range of backgrounds.
Above all, the Directors must exhibit independence of mind, integrity
and the courage to challenge constructively when appropriate.
Appointments are therefore made on personal merit and against
objective criteria. In the case of candidates for Non-Executive
Directorships, care is taken to ascertain that they have sufficient time
to fulﬁl their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities.
As part of this process, candidates disclose all other time
commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board
of any changes. 
Diversity
As the current composition of the Board demonstrates, Lonrho
strongly supports the beneﬁts of diversity, having three female
members on a Board of six.
The Board acknowledges that diversity extends beyond the
boardroom and supports management in their efforts to build a
diverse organisation throughout the Group by attracting and
developing a highly qualiﬁed and diversiﬁed workforce, ensuring all
selection decisions are based on merit and that recruitment activities
are fair and non-discriminatory. 
The Board acknowledges the importance of diversity, including
gender, to the effective functioning of the Board and continues to
focus on encouraging diversity of business skills and experience;
recognising Directors with diverse skills sets, capabilities and
experience gained from different geographic and cultural
backgrounds enhance the Board. 
Balance between Independent and Non-Independent Directors
The Combined Code recommends that a “smaller company” within
the meaning of the Combined Code should have at least two
Independent Non-Executive Directors. For the purposes of the
Combined Code a smaller company is one that is below the
FTSE 350. A director is considered independent if the board
determines that the director is independent in character and
judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances
which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the director’s
judgement.
Currently, the Board is composed of six members: three Executive
Directors, two Non-Executive Directors and a Non-Executive
Chairman. 
Although Jean Ellis is not considered to be independent, as that term
is deﬁned by the Combined Code, the Board considers that she is
independent of management and free of any relationship which
could materially interfere with the exercise of her independent
judgement. Jean Ellis is not considered to be independent as deﬁned
in the Combined Code because of her previous position as an
Executive Director and as she is a partner of DSG Chartered
Accountants, which provides an immaterial level of services to the
Group. However, she makes a valuable contribution to the strategic
direction of the Group because of her objectivity and ﬁnancial
experience and she also has signiﬁcant historical knowledge of the
Group.
The Board believes that it has an acceptable number of members
with a sufficiently diverse balance of backgrounds, experiences and
skills to discharge its functions effectively and to manage succession
issues. The Board keeps its membership, and that of the Committees,
under review, to ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience. It
is satisﬁed that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their
roles and that it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals. 
Composition of the Board
The Board has been considering the appointment of another
Independent Non-Executive Director during the year. Upon the
proposed appointment of another independent Non-Executive
Director the Committee memberships will be adjusted to bring their
composition into compliance with the Combined Code. 
Conﬂicts of interest
Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation before
taking up any position that conﬂicts, or may possibly conﬂict, with
the interests of the Company. Lonrho’s Articles of Association
contain provisions to allow the Directors to authorise situations of
potential conﬂict of interests so that a Director is not in breach of his
or her duty under company law. All Directors are aware of the need
to consult regarding any conﬂicts which may arise so that prior
consideration can be given by the Board as to whether or not such
conﬂicts should be approved.
Re-election of Directors
In line with the Combined Code, all Directors seek re-election every
three years and any Director appointed during the year also seeks re-
election at the next Annual General Meeting. 44
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Induction and business awareness 
On appointment, Non-Executive Directors, who are expected to
provide a time commitment to the Company of at least 24 days a
year or to devote such time as is necessary for the proper
performance of their duties, are provided with an induction
programme. This covers the Group’s operations, including social,
ethical and environmental matters, and meetings with senior
management as part of a guided tour of the Group’s main
operations, as well as access to and guidance through Board policies,
prior papers and minutes.
The Directors may, at the Company’s expense, take independent
professional advice. They are also expected to take responsibility for
identifying their training needs and to take steps to ensure that they
adequately informed about the Company and their responsibilities as
a Director. 
Performance evaluation
The Combined Code recommends that an evaluation of
effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is conducted annually
and that the process is externally facilitated at least every third year.
This year an internal performance evaluation of the Board and its
Committees and each individual Director was carried out in
accordance with the Combined Code.
The Directors were asked to consider and comment on the
performance of the Board as a whole. The Chairman led the
assessment of the Directors. She held one-to-one interviews with
each Director and these discussions were facilitated by the Directors
being asked to consider a number of questions in advance. Amongst
other things, Directors were asked for their views on Company
strategy; key challenges for the business; the mix of skills, experience,
independence, knowledge and diversity on the Board (including
gender); effectiveness of the Board’s engagement with shareholders;
and how well the Board operates. The outputs of the interviews were
discussed at the Board meeting in February 2013. 
Each Board Committee member also undertook a detailed self-
assessment questionnaire and feedback reported to the Board at the
Board meeting in February 2013. 
The performance of the Chairman was not reviewed due to her short
time in office but will be by the Senior Independent Director. 
The Board found the performance of each Director to be effective
and concluded that the Board provides effective leadership and
control required for a listed company. The evaluation found the
Board Committees were working well. As a result of
recommendations made in this year’s Board performance evaluation,
each Board meeting will be preceded by a meeting of the Chairman
and Non-Executive Directors; more time will be given during Board
meetings to discuss growth opportunities and for strategic debate;
and more opportunities will be given to Directors to visit various
Group businesses. The Board will continue to review its procedures,
its effectiveness and development in the ﬁnancial year ahead. 
Succession planning
The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for
directorships and key management roles. The purpose of this is
twofold – to mitigate the risk of not having identiﬁed successors for
key roles and to identify development opportunities for talented
individuals within agreed career plans, which may help to retain them
in the Group’s employment. the Board is therefore actively engaged
in ongoing succession planning in order to ensure that plans are in
place for the orderly and progressive refreshing of the Board and for
the identiﬁcation and development of senior management with
potential for Board and senior positions. 
Information, training and development 
Keeping up to date with key business developments is essential for
the Directors to maintain and enhance their effectiveness. From time
to time the Board receives presentations from executives in Lonrho’s
businesses on matters of signiﬁcance. Financial plans, including
budgets and forecasts, are regularly discussed at Board meetings.
The Directors also have the opportunity to learn the views of major
investors throughout the ﬁnancial year.
In the last year the Board received training focusing on recent
corporate governance developments and has recently received
training on environmental and social risk management. 
The Board intends to hold one meeting overseas each year, to
facilitate the Directors’ understanding of the Group’s African
operations. 
Throughout their period in office, Directors are regularly updated on
the Group’s businesses and the regulatory environment in which they
operate. Updates are by way of meetings with senior executives and,
where appropriate, external sources. 
As a further aspect of their ongoing development, each Director will
receive feedback on his or her performance following the Board’s
performance evaluation in each year.
The Board is conﬁdent that all its members have the knowledge,
ability and experience to perform the functions required of a director
of a listed company. 
Board meetings
The Board previously had four board meetings scheduled each year,
which with effect from 2013, has been increased to six. In addition to
the scheduled meetings during the year, there were a number of
additional Board meetings to consider signiﬁcant acquisitions,
fundraisings and other corporate activities.
Scheduled Board and Committee meetings were previously arranged
up to one year in advance, although, with effect from 2013, this has
been increased to three years, and all Directors are expected to
attend each meeting. All Directors are provided with the papers and
relevant information in advance of each meeting. If a director is
unable to attend a meeting due to exceptional circumstances, he or
she will still receive the supporting papers and will discuss any
matters they wish to raise with the Chairman of the Board or the
Chairman of the relevant committee, in order to ensure that his or
her views are given consideration.
Corporate Governance Statement continued Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
Meeting attendance for the year ended 31 December 2012 is set out in the table below:
Board and Committee attendance
Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee Corporate
Board meetings meetings Committee meetings meetings Responsibility meetings
––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––
Name of Director A B C B C B C B C B
Non-Executive Chairman
Chairman
Ambassador Frances Cook (a) 4 4 6 6 3 3 4 4
Executive Chairman
David Lenigas (c) 3 3
Executive Directors
Geoffrey White 4 4 3 3 4 4
David Armstrong 4 4
Emma Priestley 4 3
Non-Executive Directors
Jean Ellis 4 3 6 6 4 2
Kiran Morzaria (b) 4 4 6 5 6 6
Sir Richard Needham (d) 1 1 2 2 1 1
Notes:
A Maximum number of scheduled meetings Director could have attended
B Number of meetings Director actually attended
C Maximum number of meetings Director could have attended
a Senior Independent Director until 27 November 2012
b Senior Independent Director from 27 November 2012
c Resigned from the Board on 13 September 2012
d Resigned from the Board 28 May 2012
Board activities in 2012
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer reported to the
Board on the businesses within the Group and the performance of
the Group as a whole. Reports were also made by each of the
principal Board Committees.
Internal controls
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of internal
controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate
risk of failure to meet business objectives and can provide only
reasonable not absolute assurance against material misstatement or
loss.
Consistent with the guidance provided for directors on internal
control by the Financial Reporting Council (“Internal Control: Revised
Guidance for Directors on The Combined Code”), the Board
conﬁrms that there is an on-going process for identifying, evaluating
and managing assessed signiﬁcant risks faced by the Group, that this
has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of
approval of the Report and Accounts and accords with the guidance.
Included in this review was an assessment of the effectiveness of the
processes used to escalate emerging issues from the operating units
to senior management and the Board. 
The Board affirms the importance it attaches to continuous review
and application of the guidance, the regular and systematic
assessment of the risks facing the Group and the value of embedding
risk management and internal control systems with its business
processes.
Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an internal
audit function, choosing instead to outsource the function to a ﬁrm
of chartered accountants, TAG International, based in South Africa,
which carries out a rolling programme of visits to the Group’s
subsidiaries and reports back to the Audit Committee and the Board.
In addition, a rolling programme of review of key controls is
conducted through a combination of the external audit process,
external internal audit advisers or through reviews by members of the
ﬁnance team, as appropriate.
The key features which the Board and Audit Committee have applied
in reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal
controls include:
• a comprehensive system of ﬁnancial reporting and business
planning;
• a deﬁned schedule of matters for decision by the Board;
• an organisational structure with clearly deﬁned levels of authority
and division of responsibilities;
• formal documentation procedures;
• the close involvement of the Executive Directors in all aspects of
day-to-day operations, including regular meetings with senior
management to review all operational aspects of the business and
risk management systems;
• the Board reviewing Group strategy and progress on
developments at each scheduled Board meeting; and
• a formal whistleblowing policy.
Relations with shareholders
The Board is keenly aware of the importance of there being a
dialogue with shareholders to ensure that the Board keeps abreast of,
and understands, shareholders’ views and opinions.
It achieves this as set out below:
• the Chairman and the Executive Directors regularly meet
institutional shareholders, potential investors and analysts;
• there are presentations to, and/or conference calls with, analysts
and investors at the time of the announcement of results;
• to provide a more detailed knowledge of the Group, the Company
arranges seminars, and investor and analyst visits to the Group’s
operations; 46
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Corporate Governance Statement continued
• investor relations reports describing investor and analyst opinions
are provided to the Board;
• at the Annual General Meeting, shareholders have the opportunity
to raise questions with the Board in the meeting;
• Directors also make themselves available before and after the
formal general meeting to talk informally to shareholders;
• the Company’s website helps shareholders keep abreast of
developments. It is regularly updated with press releases,
comments and interviews. Shareholders may register on the
website for the Company’s mailing list to be sent news releases
automatically.
Model Code
The Company has a code of securities dealing in relation to the
Group (including the Ordinary Shares) which is based on, and is at
least as rigorous as, the Model Code as published in the Listing Rules.
The code applies to the Directors of the Company and persons
discharging managerial responsibilities.
Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy
The Company’s commitment to high standards of ethical behaviour
pre-dates the UK Bribery Act 2011. However, the Board is cognisant
of the heightened legal risks arising as a result of the anti-bribery
legislation and increased global enforcement activity.
Lonrho has in place an Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy, which has
been adopted across all divisions of the Group. The Board has overall
responsibility for ensuring compliance by Directors, employees and
other persons associated with the Group with applicable legal and
ethical obligations. The Group’s Finance Director has primary and
day-to-day responsibility for implementation of the policy.
Management at all levels of the Group are responsible for ensuring
those reporting to them are made aware of and understand the
policy. The policy gives guidance on risk identiﬁcation and the
procedures to follow where a risk is identiﬁed, together with clear
guidelines on gifts, entertainment and donations.
Board Committees
As recommended by the Combined Code, the Board has Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination Committees with formally delegated
duties and responsibilities with written terms of reference, which are
periodically reviewed. In addition, the Company has established a
Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its
responsibilities with regard to ﬁnancial reporting, external and
internal audits and controls, including reviewing the Company’s
interim and annual ﬁnancial statements, reviewing and monitoring
the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors,
advising on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit activities, internal
controls and risk management systems. The ultimate responsibility
for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and the
half yearly reports remains with the Board.
The Combined Code recommends that the Audit Committee should,
in the case of smaller companies such as the Company, comprise
two Independent Non-Executive Directors. At least one member of
the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant ﬁnancial
experience.
The members of each committee are currently as follows:
Committee Chairman Members
Audit Kiran Morzaria Ambassador Frances Cook
Remuneration Kiran Morzaria Ambassador Frances Cook
Nomination Ambassador Frances Cook Kiran Morzaria and Geoffrey White
Corporate Responsibility Ambassador Frances Cook Jean Ellis, Emma Priestley and Geoffrey White Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
The membership of the Company’s Audit Committee comprises two
members: Kiran Morzaria (Chairman) and Ambassador Frances Cook.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee was Jean Ellis until
27 November 2012, when she stepped down, Kiran Morzaria was
appointed as Chairman and Ambassador Frances Cook was
appointed to the Committee. The Deputy Company Secretary acts as
secretary of the Audit Committee. The Company recognises that the
Audit Committee did not comply with the Combined Code
recommendations regarding the composition of the Audit
Committee during the year ended 31 December 2012 because:
i) from 1 January 2012 to 28 May 2012, only one of the three
members then on the Committee was an independent non-
executive director; 
ii) from 28 May 2012 to 27 November 2012, only one of the two
members then on the Committee was an independent non-
executive director; and 
iii) from 27 November 2012 to 31 December 2012, only one of the
two members then on the Committee was an independent
non-executive director.
However, the Board considered that, in order to ensure the effective
working of the Audit Committee, and in particular having regard to
their recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience, it was appropriate for
Jean Ellis and Kiran Morzaria to serve as members of the Audit
Committee, and was conﬁdent of their experience to ensure that the
Committee’s affairs were conducted in an impartial and objective
manner. 
The Board considers that Kiran Morzaria became independent prior
to his appointment as Chairman of the Committee.
The quorum for meetings of the Audit Committee is two members.
The Lonrho Finance Director and a representative of the external
auditors normally attend meetings of the Audit Committee. There is
at least one meeting, or a part of a meeting, each year which the
external auditors attend without management present to discuss the
remit of the Audit Committee and any issues arising from the audit.
The Audit Committee meets as and when requested by either its
Chairman or the Chairman of the Company. The Chairman of the
Audit Committee ensures that meetings are held sufficiently
frequently for the Audit Committee to fulﬁl its duties. However, in any
event, the Audit Committee has particular regard to the management
and mitigation of risk, matters of internal control (including the
governance of subsidiaries) and value for money. The Audit
Committee is authorised by the Board at the expense of the
Company to obtain external professional advice and to secure the
attendance of outsiders with relevant experience at meetings when it
considers necessary.
Duties of the Audit Committee
The principal duties of the Audit Committee include the following:
• to review and monitor the external auditor’s independence and
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into
consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory
requirements;
• to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account
relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit
services by the external audit ﬁrm;
• to make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the
shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to
the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external
auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of
engagement of the external auditor;
• to monitor the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements of the
Company, reviewing signiﬁcant ﬁnancial reporting judgements
contained in them;
• to discuss problems and reservations arising from the interim and
ﬁnal external audits, as well as any matters the external auditor
may wish to raise;
• to review the Group’s internal control and ﬁnancial reporting
systems (including ﬁnancial, operational, compliance and risk
management) and to make recommendations to the Board; and
• to review from time to time the need for an internal audit function
and, where such a function exists, to review the implementation of
the programme ensuring its smooth efficient running and
appropriate standing within the Group.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining its
responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making
recommendations to the Board on the Company’s policy on
executive remuneration, determining the individual remuneration and
beneﬁts package of each of the Executive Directors and
recommending and monitoring the remuneration of senior
management below Board level.
The Combined Code provides that the Remuneration Committee
should, in the case of smaller companies such as the Company,
consist of at least two independent Non-Executive Directors.
The membership of the Company’s Remuneration Committee
comprises two members: Kiran Morzaria and Ambassador Frances
Cook. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee was
Ambassador Frances Cook until 27 November 2012, when Kiran
Morzaria Chairman of the Committee was appointed, in her place,
following her appointment as Chairman of the Company. The
Deputy Company Secretary acts as the secretary of the
Remuneration Committee. The Company recognises that the
Remuneration Committee did not comply with Combined Code
recommendations regarding the composition of the Remuneration
Committee during the year ended 31 December 2012 because;
i) from 1 January 2012 to 13 September 2012, only one of the two
members then on the Committee was an independent non-
executive director; 
ii) from 13 September 2012 to 31 December 2012, only one of the
two members then on the Committee was an independent
non-executive director;
However, the Board considered that, in order to ensure the effective
working of the Remuneration Committee, it was appropriate for Kiran
Morzaria and Ambassador Frances Cook to have been members of
the Remuneration Committee and was conﬁdent that the
Committee’s affairs were conducted in an impartial and objective
manner. The Board considers that Mr. Morzaria became independent
prior to his appointment as Chairman of the Committee.
The quorum for meetings of the Remuneration Committee is two
members. The Remuneration Committee may invite any Director to
join meetings. However, no-one other than the Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee and its members is entitled to attend and
vote at a meeting. No Director is involved in any decisions as to his or
her own remuneration. The Remuneration Committee meets
formally at least twice a year and otherwise as required. The
Remuneration Committee is authorised at the expense of the
Company to obtain professional advice and to secure the attendance
of outsiders with relevant experience at meetings when it considers it
necessary.
Duties of the Remuneration Committee
The principal duties of the Remuneration Committee include the
following:
• to make recommendations to the Board on the Company’s
framework of Executive Director remuneration and its cost; 48
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
• to ensure that the Executive Directors and the Chairman are fairly
and appropriately rewarded for their individual contributions to the
Group’s overall performance, drawing on outside advice as
necessary;
• to monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior
management and make recommendations regarding their
remuneration packages;
• to advise on and monitor any performance related bonus or other
incentive schemes; and
• to see that awards under the Group’s share option schemes and
bonus or other incentive plans, if any, are consistent with the
Group’s overall performance and the performance of individuals
and provide an additional incentive to management.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its
responsibilities relating to the composition and make-up of the
Board. The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the
balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, the size,
structure and composition of the Board, retirements and
appointments of additional and replacement directors and will make
appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
The Combined Code provides that a majority of the members of the
Nomination Committee should be Independent Non-Executive
Directors and that the Chairman or an Independent Non-Executive
Director will chair the Nomination Committee.
The membership of the Company’s Nomination Committee
currently comprises three members: Ambassador Frances Cook
(Chairman), Kiran Morzaria and Geoffrey White. The Deputy
Company Secretary acts as the secretary of the Nomination
Committee. The Company recognises that the Nomination
Committee did not comply with the Combined Code
recommendations regarding the composition of the Nomination
Committee during the year ended 31 December 2012 because:
1) from 28 May 2012 to 13 September 2012, only one of the two
members then on the Committee was an independent non-
executive director; 
2) from 13 September 2012 to 27 November 2012, neither of the
two members then on the Committee was an independent
non-executive director; and
3) from 27 November 2012 to 31 December 2012 only one of the
three members then on the Committee was an independent
non-executive director.
However, the Board considers that, in order to ensure the effective
working of the Nomination Committee, it was appropriate for
Ambassador Cook and Geoffrey White to serve as members of the
Nomination Committee, and was conﬁdent of their experience to
ensure that the Committee’s affairs were conducted in an impartial
and objective manner. 
The quorum for meetings of the Nomination Committee is two
members. No-one other than the Chairman of the Nomination
Committee and its members is entitled to attend or vote at a meeting
of the Nomination Committee, although Directors may attend if
invited to do so by the Nomination Committee. Meetings of the
Nomination Committee shall be held at such times as the Chairman
of the Nomination Committee, or the Chairman of the Company,
deems appropriate, and in any event not less than twice per year. The
Nomination Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain
whatever professional advice it considers necessary.
Duties of the Nomination Committee
The principal duties of the Nomination Committee include the
following:
• to review regularly the structure, size and composition of the
Board (including the skills, knowledge and experience) and make
recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes;
• to identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, appropriate
candidates to ﬁll Board vacancies as and when they arise;
• to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the
Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of
the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment;
• to give full consideration to succession planning taking into
account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and
what skills, knowledge and expertise will be needed on the Board
in the future and to make recommendations as regards plans for
succession for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors;
• to review annually the time required for each Non-Executive
Director having regard to their particular committee appointments
and any other speciﬁc roles and to use performance evaluation to
assess whether a Non-Executive Director has devoted sufficient
time to their role and duties;
• to keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation,
both Executive and Non-Executive, with a view to ensuring the
continued ability of the Company to compete effectively in the
marketplace;
• to recommend to the Board the re-election (or not) by
shareholders of any Director under the retirement and re-election
provisions in the Company’s Articles of Association;
• to make recommendations as regards the re-appointment of any
Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of his or her speciﬁed
term of office;
• to make recommendations to the Board concerning membership
of the Audit and Remuneration Committee; and
• to ensure that, on appointment to the Board, Non-Executive
Directors receive formal written terms of appointment.
Our policy on appointments to the Board
All recommendations for Board appointments are made on merit and
against objective criteria and take into account the beneﬁt of diversity
in all its forms. A job speciﬁcation is drawn up which includes, in the
case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of the time
commitment required. Generally, the Committee will engage
executive search consultants to assist in conducting a
comprehensive listing of potential candidates from a range of
backgrounds for the Committee’s consideration. 
Ambassador Frances Cook was appointed as Non-executive
Chairman during the year, following the departure of David Lenigas.
She brings extensive knowledge of Africa, sound judgement and
suitable personal perspective on the need for the Company to meet
its transformation imperatives. As she had been a Non-Executive
Director for ﬁve years, the Nomination Committee had a deep
understanding of her capabilities and her other signiﬁcant
commitments, which are disclosed on page 40. 
The Committee has developed a crisis management plan in the event
of the untimely demise, indisposition or departure of the Chief
Executive Officer or Finance Director. It is also developing plans for
the orderly succession for appointments to the Board and to senior
management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and
experience within the Company and on the Board and to ensure
progressive refreshing of the Board.
Corporate Responsibility Committee
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is responsible for reviewing
and approving policies and initiatives relating to corporate
responsibility matters and implementing the Group’s corporate
responsibility values, as determined by the Board, viz.:
• Investing in the Group’s workforce and their wellbeing
• Supporting communities
Corporate Governance Statement continued Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49
• Integrity
• Strengthening the local economy
• Advancing Environmental Stewardship
The Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises four Directors of whom one is a Non-Executive Director. The current members are
Ambassador Frances Cook, Jean Ellis, Emma Priestley and Geoffrey White. The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by Ambassador
Frances Cook and supported by the Company’s commercial manager for corporate projects. The Corporate Responsibility Committee meets
at least twice each year. The Deputy Company Secretary acts as the secretary of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Duties of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 
The principal duties of the Corporate Responsibility Committee relate to identifying, evaluating and reviewing issues in relation to the
following:
• Employment
• Health and safety
• Human rights
• Workforce diversity and inclusion
• The environment
• Community and social investment
• Ethical trading and business practices
• Other Corporate Responsibility related matters as may be determined by the Committee from time to time
Executive Committee
In addition to the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Committees, the Company has also established an Executive
Committee.
The Company’s Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors and certain managers including the Group’s General Counsel,
Treasurer and the Group Financial Controller. The Chairman of the Executive Committee is the Chief Executive Officer. Its terms of reference
provide for at least eight regular meetings per year. The Executive Committee’s primary responsibilities are to review the operating
performance of each Group company, manage the Group’s strategic planning process and corporate acquisitions and disposal programme,
monitor and approve capital expenditure and contracts entered into by the Group and to manage the Group’s HR policies. In addition, the
Executive Committee is responsible for monitoring announcements required under the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency
Rules and ensuring that they are made in a timely fashion.
Key activities for the Committees in the year ended 31 December 2012
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee
Met 6 times Met 6 times Met 3 times Met 4 times
Approved annual audit plan
Approved whistleblowing policy
Group Corporate responsibility
values rolled out and monitored
Consideration of appointment
of further independent Non-
Executive Director
Approved the grant of awards
over shares under the
Company’s Performance Share
Plan
Reviewed scope and
effectiveness of internal and
external audit functions
Approved senior management
appointments
Reviewed senior management
remuneration
Received reports from external
and internal auditors
Consideration of succession
planning
Appointed Opus Executive
Partners as advisers to the
Committee
Monitored effectiveness of
corporate governance, internal
controls and risk management
Approved environmental policy Approved payments in lieu of
notice and other beneﬁts to
former Executive Chairman
Reviewed provision of non-
audit services by external
auditors
Approved extension of notice
periods to 12 months for Chief
Executive Officer and Finance
Director
Anti-Corruption and Bribery
Policy rolled out
Approved quality policy
Ghana Oil Services Terminal
development reviewed and
monitored
Agreed to develop a Group
Human Rights policy
Reviewed international
corporate responsibility
standards
Reviewed Board and Board
Committee composition to
ensure the correct mix of skills
and experience
Reviewed Executive Directors’
remuneration including salaries,
bonuses and pension
allowances
Reviewed ﬁnancial statements
in annual report, half year
results and quarterly results
statements 50
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Remuneration Report
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to
present to you the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year
ended 31 December 2012.
Remuneration strategy
The Remuneration Committee is acutely aware of increasing public
scrutiny of executive pay and concern regarding unmerited
payments. At Lonrho, the close linkage of reward to the performance
of the Group is a guiding principle underlying executive
remuneration. The balance of remuneration for the Executive
Directors is, therefore, such that a signiﬁcant part of their overall
reward is conditional upon the attainment of yearly proﬁt and cash
ﬂow targets and the long term performance of the Group relative to
its peers.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for recommending to
the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer, Executive Directors and senior management
below Board level.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter reserved to
the Executive Directors.
Within the terms of the agreed policy, the Committee recommends:
• the total individual remuneration package including, where
appropriate, bonuses and share-based incentives;
• the targets for any performance-related incentives;
• the scope of any pension arrangements;
• contractual terms of engagement and any payments to be made
on termination;
• any major changes in employee beneﬁt structures throughout the
Group; and
• the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer.
Details of Committee members who served during the period, and
their attendance at Committee meetings, are shown in the table on
page 45.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Finance Director attend
meetings by invitation.
The terms of reference of the Committee are summarised in the
Corporate Governance Statement and can be found on the
Company’s website or are available upon request.
Adviser to the Remuneration Committee
During the year, the Committee was materially assisted in its work by
Opus Executive Partners, which had been appointed by the
Committee, to advise on various aspects of the Executive Directors’
remuneration and provide general on-going advice on remuneration
matters.
Internal relativity
The Remuneration Committee is sensitive to the need to set
Directors’ remuneration having regard to pay and conditions in the
Group as a whole and is satisﬁed that the approach taken by the
Company is fair and reasonable in light of current market practice
and the best interests of shareholders.
Risk alignment
The Committee has considered the alignment of the performance
related pay systems with the Company’s key risks, and believes that
the design of the pay systems incentivises effective risk management,
including in relation to environmental, social and governance risks.
The risk of the pay systems themselves causing perverse incentives
has also been reviewed by the Committee. The current bonus
scheme contains a “claw back” mechanism, discussed more fully on
page 51.
Relations with shareholders
The Committee is strongly committed to open and transparent
dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters. At the AGM
held in May 2012, the advisory vote on the Directors’ Remuneration
Report received the support of 77% of those voting, with holders of
13% of the register either voting against or withholding their votes. 
Remuneration policy
The overall aims of Lonrho’s remuneration policy are to:
• ensure that the organisation has a continued ability to attract,
motivate and retain the high calibre individuals required at Board
level;
• provide the opportunity for executives and other talented
individuals to receive, within their overall remuneration package,
competitive rewards for performance as a result of sustained
Group performance over a longer period of time;
• support the Group’s strategy and its execution;
• provide consistency in, and alignment with, the Group’s approach
to performance-based pay and Lonrho’s overall executive
compensation strategy.
The implementation of this policy involves:
• paying a base salary that reﬂects individual roles, performance and
contribution, taking into account salaries at companies of similar
size and complexity and international markets;
• giving executives the opportunity to increase their base earnings
by meeting measures that support the Group’s strategy and
budget, thereby linking executive rewards to the Group’s
performance;
• rewarding executives fairly and responsibly for their contribution to
the Group’s performance;
• encouraging executives to hold shares in the Company.
As well as setting the speciﬁc remuneration packages for Executive
Directors, the Remuneration Committee monitors the level and
structure of remuneration for the Group’s most senior and highly
remunerated executives.
At the Company’s next Annual General Meeting shareholder approval
will be sought for the remuneration policy by way of an advisory
vote.
Salary and beneﬁts
Base salaries and fees are established by reference to surveys of the
terms offered by comparable quoted companies. The starting point
for comparative surveys is the scope of the position and associated
performance of each Executive Director. Excluding his own position
and performance, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the
deﬁnition of the scope of positions and assessment of the
performance of each Executive Director, for approval by the
Remuneration Committee. Salaries for the Executive Directors are
reviewed at the beginning of each year and are set at competitive
levels.
This report sets out the Company’s current policy on Directors’
remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2012. Subsequent to
the Company’s move from AIM to the main market the Committee
carried out a review of the Executive Directors’ remuneration and
implemented changes with effect from 1 April 2012. This report sets
out both the arrangements that were in place during the period from
1 January 2012 to 31 March 2012 and the new arrangements that
were adopted from 1 April 2012.
Directors’ Remuneration Report Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
The Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy
needs to be sufficiently ﬂexible to take account of future changes in
the Group’s business environment and remuneration practice.
Remuneration of Executive Directors for the year ended
31 December 2012
i) Remuneration from 1 January 2012 to 31 March 2012
Base salary
From 1 January 2012 to 31 March 2012, the annual base salary of the
Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was £500,000
respectively, whilst the annual base salary for the Finance Director
was £300,000 and the other Executive Director was £330,000.
Incentive based salary
In addition, between the period of 1 January and 31 March 2012
incentive based salaries were paid to the Executive Chairman, Chief
Executive Officer and the Finance Director to encourage the
achievement of pre-deﬁned annual ﬁnancial objectives, taking into
account in particular the accelerated revenue growth targets of the
Group.
The aggregate of the base and performance based salaries for the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was set equal to 0.5% of the
Group’s turnover, whilst the base and performance based salary for
the Finance Director was set equal to 0.3% of the Group’s turnover.
Details of the amounts paid are as follows and are detailed on
page 54.
£’000
D.A. Lenigas (resigned 13.09.12) 139
G.T White 139
D.J Armstrong 83
361
Bonuses
To align remuneration with shareholders’ interest, a proportion of the
Executive Directors’ potential remuneration were related to annual
corporate performance.
Bonuses paid in the year ended 31 December 2012, which related to
the 15 month period ended 31 December 2011, were as follows and
are detailed on page 54.
£’000
D.A. Lenigas (resigned 13.09.12) 61
G.T White 61
D.J Armstrong 36
158
None of the bonuses referred to above are pensionable.
ii) Remuneration from 1 April 2012 to 31 December 2012
As mentioned above, following a review of Board remuneration
conducted during the period following the move from AIM to the
main market, the remuneration arrangements of the Executive
Directors were substantially adjusted in 2012 as set out below.
Base salary
With effect from 1 April 2012, the annual base salary of the Executive
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was £550,000 respectively,
whilst the annual base salary for the Finance Director were £350,000.
The performance based salary arrangements was revised as set out
below.
The annual base salary of the other Executive Director was £330,000.
Bonuses
A new bonus scheme was also put in place for 2012 whereby the
Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director
would receive an annual bonus of up to 100% of their base salaries,
based on performance divided into three measures: Proﬁt before Tax
(“PBT”), to reﬂect business performance; net cash ﬂow, to incentivise
them to perform well and to budget; and personal performance to be
decided by the Committee. Each of the three components would
account for up to 33.3% of base salaries.
The PBT calculation would be normalised to remove the effect of
foreign exchange gains or losses and the effect of acquisitions and
disposals. If PBT is on target (based on the Group’s consolidated
budget approved by the Board), a 15% bonus would be awarded. If
PBT is on target plus 17%, a 25% bonus would be awarded. If PBT is
on target plus 30%, a 33.3% bonus would be awarded.
If net cash ﬂow is on target (based on the Group’s consolidated
budget approved by the Board), a 15% bonus would be awarded. If
net cash ﬂow is on target plus 17%, a 25% bonus would be awarded.
If net cash ﬂow is on target plus 30%, a 33.3% bonus would be
awarded.
Personal performance targets are set by the Committee on an
individual basis, annually. These targets are stretching and include a
mix of operational, strategic and ﬁnancial targets selected to
incentivise delivery of key Group priorities.
Any bonus awarded over 60% of base salary would be used to
purchase shares in the Company, unless shares were already owned
to the value of the individual’s annual base salary. Within ﬁve years all
Executive Directors should own shares equal to their level of annual
net base salary at that time.
A clawback mechanism will operate whereby the previous bonuses
awarded to Executive Directors can be recovered from them for a
period of up to 12 months. The clawback would apply where:
• A bonus had been awarded on the basis of performance which is
later found to have been overestimated;
• It is discovered that an award had been paid out at a time when
the Executive Director was in serious breach of his employment or
ﬁduciary duties, which would have blocked the payment if known
at the time;
• It is discovered that an award had been paid out at a time when
there had been any material misstatement of the Group ﬁnancial
statements.
An annual bonus for the other Executive Director would be
recommended by the Committee and approved by the Board based
on ﬁnancial and personal performance.
During the year ended December 2012, the Chief Executive Officer
and Finance Director had three personal performance targets each.
Each target would contribute 11.1% of their potential bonus. If all
three personal performance targets were achieved a 33.3% would be
awarded.
Whilst the criteria for the PBT and net cashﬂow targets were not met,
during the year both the Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director
achieved one of their three personal targets. Therefore under the
agreed bonus plan they were each awarded a 11.1% bonus on their
base salary. The personal target achieved for both the Directors was
the strategic disposal and listing of Lonrho Aviation which was
completed on 29 June 2012. 52
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
The amounts paid in relation to the year ended 31 December 2012
are as follows:
£’000
G.T. White 61
D.J Armstrong 39
100
It is envisaged that the structure of the bonus scheme will remain the
same for 2013.
Pension arrangements
With effect from 1 April 2012, the Executive Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer received a pension allowance of £150,000 per
annum, and the Finance Director a pension allowance of £100,000
per annum.
Beneﬁts in kind
The value of beneﬁts for Executive Directors during the year is
included in the table of remuneration on page 54. These include a
car allowance or provision of a company car, and life and health
insurance. The value of each Director’s beneﬁts is assessable to
income tax but is not pensionable. 
Unapproved Share Option Plan (“the Scheme”)
During the year, no options were granted over shares by the
Company. It is envisaged that no further share options will be granted
to the Executive Directors under the Scheme. Exercise of share
options under the Scheme were not subject to prior achievement of
a performance condition.
Share usage under Unapproved Share Option Plan
Based on the number of options outstanding as at 31 December
2012, the number of new shares issued under the Scheme over the
last eight years, together with the number potentially to be issued,
totalled an amount equal to 7.68% of the Company’s issued ordinary
capital.
This is within the dilution limits of 10% set by the Association of British
Insurers and reﬂected in the rules of the Scheme.
Share based incentives
It is the intention of the Committee that all future share-based
incentives to Executive Directors should be made under a Long-Term
Incentive Plan (the “LTIP Scheme”). Under the LTIP Scheme, annual
awards of shares would be made which vest at the end of a three
year period subject to a number of conditions including continued
employment and the satisfaction of a Total Shareholder Return
(“TSR”) target. The initial allocation would be equal to 100% of annual
base salary. Awards would be structured so that 25% of the shares
would vest if Lonrho’s TSR over a 3 year period was in the top half of
the relative comparator index and 100% of the shares would vest if it
was in the top quartile of the same index. In addition, the maximum
award under the LTIP Scheme would be no more than twice annual
base salary. A comparator index of 27 companies was initially chosen
from the FTSE SmallCap, FTSE SmallCap Support Services Index and
FTSE 350 Food Producers Index, which has since reduced to 25 as a
result of acquisitions, as detailed below: 
Speedy Hire plc St. Ives plc
Smiths News plc Xchanging
Ricardo plc Cranswick plc
Lavendon Group Dairy Crest Group
Hyder Consulting plc Mears Group plc
Robert Walters plc Anglo-Eastern Plantations
Premier Foods plc plc
Fiberweb plc Rea Holdings plc
Hilton Food Group plc Sthree plc
John Menzies plc Hogg Robinson Group plc
Brammer plc Management Consulting
Devro plc Group plc
VP plc CPP Group plc
On 13 September 2012, the Company granted the following awards,
structured as additional rights to shares, under the LTIP Scheme:
No of
shares
G. White 6,411,228
D.J. Armstrong 4,079,872
The awards will ordinarily vest on 29 May 2015, and will ordinarily
lapse on cessation of employment (save for in circumstances
speciﬁed in the Scheme rules). 
It is envisaged that the grant of awards under the LTIP Scheme will
remain unchanged. 
Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”)
The following graph indicates the value by the end of 2012 of £100
invested in Lonrho Plc ordinary shares on 1 January 2009 compared
with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE SmallCap over the same
period. The graph was selected as the most appropriate comparison
measure because the Company became a constituent member of
the FTSE SmallCap index with effect from 26 April 2011 and the
members of inter alia the FTSE SmallCap will form the comparator
group for the purposes of the TSR performance test under the LTIP
Scheme.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53
Contractual terms
All Executive Directors have rolling contracts subject to notice of termination by either party, or to summary notice in the event by a Director
of serious breach of obligations, dishonesty, serious misconduct or other conduct bringing the Company into disrepute.
The following table sets out a summary of the Directors’ service contracts or terms of appointment:
Length of service as
Date of at 31.12.12 (or date
Contract Expiry Date Notice Period of resignation)
Executive Directors
D.A Lenigas (resigned 13.09.12) 01.05.07 – 6 months 6 years 9 months 
G.T. White 01.05.07 – 12 months 5 years 2 months
D.J. Armstrong 11.11.08 – 12 months 4 years 1 month
E.K. Priestley 28.02.06 – 12 months 6 years 10 months
Non-Executive Chairman
(1)
Ambassador F.D. Cook 22.10.07 12.09.13 1 month 5 years 2 months
Non-Executive Directors
J.M. Ellis 01.12.11 30.11.13 1 month 5 years 7 months
K. Morzaria 28.09.11 27.09.13 1 month 2 years 3 months
Sir Richard Needham (resigned 28.05.12) 23.03.11 28.05.12 1 month 1 year 2 months
(1) Non-Executive Director until 13.09.12
During the year, 8,138,352 ordinary shares of 1p in the Company were allotted to D.A. Lenigas, Lonrho’s former Executive Chairman, in lieu of
notice and other beneﬁts, as disclosed in this report. 
In summary, the shares allotted were in respect of six months’ pay in lieu of notice (£350,000) (being the Company’s contractual obligation to
meet his salary and contractual beneﬁts), a payment in respect of a discretionary bonus based on his performance to date (£178,750) and
compensation in relation to the LTIP Scheme based on the good leaver provisions of the scheme (£271,250). 
No other compensation on termination of employment was made during the year.
Cambria Africa Plc (formerly LonZim Plc)
The remuneration of the Directors in respect of their services to Cambria Africa Plc during the year ended 31 December 2012 were as follows:
£’000
D.A. Lenigas (resigned 24.02.12) 2
G.T. White (resigned 24.02.12) 2
D.J. Armstrong (resigned 24.02.12) 2
E.K. Priestley (resigned 24.02.12) 2
J.M. Ellis (resigned 24.02.12) 2
10
FastJet Plc
The remuneration of the Directors in respect of their services to FastJet Plc during the year ended 31 December 2012 were as follows:
£’000
D.A. Lenigas* 10
G.T. White 26
36
*Resigned from Lonrho Plc on 13 September 2012
Other external appointments
Executive Directors may retain any payment received in respect of external Executive or Non-Executive appointments.
Non-Executive Directors
The review of Board remuneration previously conducted also determined that the base Non-Executive Director fees were below the market
median. Accordingly, following the approval of the Chairman and the Executive Directors, the Non-Executive Director fee was increased to
£50,000 per annum. In addition, the Non-Executive Directors receive fees in respect of chairing and serving on the Audit, Remuneration,
Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Committees. 54
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
All Non-Executive Directors’ conditions of appointment provide for a one month period of notice within the intended term of one year. The
appointment may be renewed by mutual agreement for further periods.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, no Non-Executive Director participated, or will in future participate, in bonus, share option or
pension arrangements.
Directors’ remuneration and interests
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the following sections a) to d).
a) Emoluments of Directors excluding pension contributions for the year ended 31 December 2012
Payment in 15 months
Beneﬁts in lieu of Year to 31 to 31
Base Incentive kind and notice December December
salaries based taxable and other 2012 2011
and fees salaries Bonuses
(3)
expenses
(1)
beneﬁts Total Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors
D.A. Lenigas (resigned 13.09.12) 400 139 61 – 800 1,400 1,227
G.T. White 538 139 122 76 – 875 1,236
D.J. Armstrong 338 83 75 42 – 538 775
E.K. Priestley 330 – – 20 – 350 469
Total Executive Directors 1,606 361 258 138 800 3,163 3,707
Non-Executive Directors
Ambassador F.D. Cook 79–––– 79 106
J.M. Ellis 62–––– 62 85
K. Morzaria 65–––– 65 69
Sir R. Needham (resigned 28.05.12) 29–––– 29 48
Total Non-Executive Directors
(2)
235–––– 235 308
Total 1,841 361 258 138 800 3,398 4,015
1. Beneﬁts in kind include company cars and medical expenses insurance. Taxable expenses relate to allowances paid in lieu of company cars.
2. For Sir Richard Needham, Ambassador Frances Cook, Jean Ellis and Kiran Morzaria, their basic annual fee of £50,000 is increased by an additional £7,500 annual fee for
each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees they chair and serve on. In addition, Ambassador Frances Cook, Sir Richard Needham and Jean Ellis receive a
further £5,000 annual fee for chairing and serving on the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
3. The bonuses included in the table above relate to bonuses paid in 2012 in respect of the performance for the 15 months ended 31 December 2011. In addition, the amounts
include bonuses in respect of 2012 performance, which have been agreed by the Remuneration Committee and which were paid in 2013.
b) Directors’ pensions
Allowances paid or Company contributions to deﬁned contribution plans:
Year to 15 months
to 31 to 31
December December
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
G.T. White 113 200
D.J. Armstrong 75 –
D.A. Lenigas (resigned 13.09.12) 75 –
263 200
c) Directors’ total remuneration
Year to 15 months
to 31 to 31
December December
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Aggregate emoluments 3,398 4,015
Pension allowances 263 –
Company pension contribution to deﬁned contribution scheme – 200
Gains made on exercise of share options (see note 27 to the ﬁnancial statements) 439 578
4,100 4,793
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55
d) Directors’ interests in options to purchase shares
Details of the interests of the Directors in the Lonrho Unapproved Share Option Plan are contained on page 57.
e) Directors’ interests
Details of the beneﬁcial interests of the Directors or their families in the ordinary shares of the Company are contained on page 57.
Future reviews
Opus Executive Partners will continue to advise the Committee on various aspects of the Executive Directors’ remuneration.
I hope that you will support the advisory vote on the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report, which will be put forward at the next Annual
General Meeting.
Kiran Morzaria
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
27 March 2013
Company number: 2805337 56
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
The Directors of Lonrho Plc are pleased to submit their report, together with the audited ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 December
2012.
The Company number is 2805337.
Principal activities
The Group has a diverse portfolio of investments across Sub-Saharan Africa in four core operating sectors: Agribusiness, Infrastructure, Hotels
and Support Services. In order to create maximum value for shareholders the management is implementing the investment strategy outlined
earlier.
Business review and development
The year has seen strong growth in the existing businesses and Lonrho has entered into a number of major agreements, to further develop its
core divisions. 
During the year, Lonrho transferred its aviation division to a separate entity listed on the London Stock Exchange (AIM) to create FastJet Plc, an
African low cost airline in conjunction with Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou and easyGroup.
The Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement and the Operating Review contain information on developments during
the year and key potential future developments.
The requirements of the enhanced business review in relation to strategy and progress thereon are contained in the Chairman’s Statement,
the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement and the Operating Review. Information on the principal risks and uncertainties relating to the Group’s
businesses is contained on pages 10 to 13.
Going Concern
The ﬁnancial position of the Group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 30
to 36.
Although the current economic conditions create uncertainty, the Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible
changes in trading performance, together with mitigation actions that are within management’s control, show that the Group is expected to
be able to operate within the level of its debt facilities.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these ﬁnancial statements.
Key Performance Indicators
The Group has a number of key performance indicators which are measured at different tiers in the operation. At the divisional level the Group
tracks revenue and gross margin against budget. The Group uses a number of speciﬁc, non-ﬁnancial, key performance indicators at individual
business levels. For example, occupancy levels at Hotel Cardoso and ship movements at Luba Freeport.
Further information is contained on pages 8 to 9.
Risk
The Directors wish to mitigate risk by proper evaluation of every investment that is made and follow a risk analysis reporting procedure, which
links into the Company’s Corporate Governance procedures. The Group is continuing to strengthen its management team by the recruitment
of highly experienced individuals.
Further information concerning the Group’s objectives, policies and process for managing its capital and ﬁnancial risk management
objectives; details of its ﬁnancial instruments; and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in note 31 to the ﬁnancial
statements.
Results and dividend
The Group results for the year ended 31 December 2012 are set out on page 61.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend (2011: £nil).
The Company has not paid dividends since 1999. During 2012 the Directors had intended to adopt a progressive dividend policy once the
Company has sufficient distributable reserves and had achieved a level of sustained proﬁtability provided it was commercially prudent, bearing
in mind the Group’s ﬁnancial position, underlying earnings and cash ﬂows, the resources required for the Group’s development and the
prevailing market outlook. The Directors will keep this under review.
Directors
The following Directors have held office during the year: Mr D.A. Lenigas (appointed 21 December 2005; resigned 13 September 2012);
Mr G.T. White (appointed 5 October 2007); Mr D.J. Armstrong (appointed 1 December 2008); Ms E.K. Priestley (appointed 24 February 2006);
Ambassador F.D. Cook (appointed 23 October 2007); Mrs J.M. Ellis (appointed Finance Director 1 June 2007 and became a Non-Executive
Director 1 December 2008); Mr K.C. Morzaria (appointed 28 September 2010) and Sir Richard Needham (appointed 26 April 2011; resigned
28 May 2012).
At the next Annual General Meeting, Mr. G. T White and Mrs. J. M. Ellis will retire by rotation. Being eligible, they will both offer themselves for
re-election. Biographical details of all Directors are set out on pages 40 to 41.
Report of the Directors
For the year ended 3 1 December 20 1 2 Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57
Directors’ share interests
The Directors set out below served throughout the year unless otherwise indicated.
At 31.12.12
(or date 
of resignation) At 01.01.12
No. of shares No. of shares
D. A. Lenigas (resigned 13.09.12) 11,931,987 3,750,000
G. T. White 3,781,666 200,000
D. J. Armstrong 216,666 200,000
E. K. Priestley 187,926 40,712
Ambassador F. D. Cook 342,606 316,252
J. M. Ellis 104,333 4,000
K. C. Morzaria Nil Nil
Sir Richard Needham (resigned 28.05.12) 222,550 222,550
All of the above interests are recorded in the Company’s Register of Directors’ Share and Debenture Interests. No Director has a beneﬁcial
interest in the shares or debentures of any of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings.
Share options
During the period, unapproved share options were held by Directors over ordinary shares, as set out below. These options are embodied in an
individual contract between the Company and the individual and have been granted under The Lonrho Plc Unapproved Share Option Plan.
Granted
during Exercised As at
As at Exercise the during 31 December
01.01.2012 price period the period 2012 Exercise period
D.A. Lenigas 3,750,000 6.5p – 3,750,000** Nil April 2007-April 2012
D.A. Lenigas 1,615,000 6.5p – 1,615,000** Nil July 2007-July 2012
D.A. Lenigas 2,500,000 6.5p – 2,500,000** Nil Jan 2009-Jan 2014
D.A. Lenigas 20,000,000 13.75p – – 20,000,000 April 2010-March 2015
D.A. Lenigas 3,333,333 18.4p – – 3,333,333 Aug 2012-Aug 2016*
D.A. Lenigas 3,333,333 22.0p – – 3,333,333 Aug 2013-Aug 2016*
D.A. Lenigas 3,333,334 25.0p – – 3,333,334 Aug 2014-Aug 2016*
(resigned 13.09.12)
G.T. White 2,500,000 6.5p – 2,500,000 Nil April 2007-April 2012
G.T. White 1,065,000 6.5p – 1,065,000 Nil July 2007-July 2012
G.T. White 2,000,000 6.5p – – 2,000,000 Jan 2009-Jan 2014
G.T. White 20,000,000 13.75p – – 20,000,000 April 2010-March 2015
G.T. White 3,333,333 18.4p – – 3,333,333 Aug 2012-Aug 2016*
G.T. White 3,333,333 22.0p – – 3,333,333 Aug 2013-Aug 2016*
G.T. White 3,333,334 25.0p – – 3,333,334 Aug 2014-Aug 2016*
D.J. Armstrong 1,000,000 6.5p – – 1,000,000 Jan 2009-Jan 2014
D.J. Armstrong 6,500,000 13.75p – – 6,500,000 April 2010-March 2015
D.J. Armstrong 2,000,000 18.4p – – 2,000,000 Aug 2012-Aug 2016*
D.J. Armstrong 2,000,000 22.0p – – 2,000,000 Aug 2013-Aug 2016*
D.J. Armstrong 2,000,000 25.0p – – 2,000,000 Aug 2014-Aug 2016*
E.K. Priestley 1,250,000 6.5p – 1,250,000 Nil April 2007-April 2012
E.K. Priestley 1,065,000 6.5p – 1,065,000 Nil April 2007-July 2012
E.K. Priestley 1,000,000 6.5p – – 1,000,000 Jan 2009-Jan 2014
E.K. Priestley 1,000,000 13.75p – – 1,000,000 April 2010-March 2015
J.M. Ellis 350,000 6.5p – 350,000 Nil July 2007-July 2012
J.M. Ellis 500,000 6.5p – 500,000 Nil Jan 2009-Jan 2014
* These options do not vest immediately but vest from 2012 to 2014.
**Exercised post resignation. 58
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Insurance
The Company has effected Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover for Group Directors.
Business Review
Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, requires that the Directors present a Business Review in this report to inform the shareholders and
help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company. The information that fulﬁls this
requirement can be found in the sections set out below and is incorporated by reference into this report. For the purposes of DTR 4.1.5R(2)
and DTR4.1.8R, the management report is the Business Review consisting of all the sections referred to below:
• Chairman’s Statement on pages 14 to 15.
• Chief Executive Officer’s Statement on pages 16 to 19.
• Business Model and Strategy on pages 4 to 5.
• Summary of Lonrho divisions on pages 6 to 7.
• Key Performance Indicators on pages 8 to 9.
• Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 10 to 13.
• Operating Review on pages 20 to 29.
• Financial Review on pages 30 to 36.
• Corporate Responsibility on pages 37 to 39.
• Corporate Governance Statement on pages 42 to 49.
• This Director’s Report 
which effectively contain a discussion of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the
Company’s business. 
Substantial shareholdings
The Directors have been advised of the following substantial shareholdings at 26 March in the Company’s issued share capital:
% of Issued 
Number of shares Capital
UBS AG London Branch 215,159,956 13.34%
Zesiger Capital Group LLC 175,275,000 10.86%
Mackenzie Financial Corp. 154,000,000 9.55%
Share capital and control
The following information is given pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
On 31 December 2012, there were 1,597,278,988 ordinary shares of 1 pence each in issue. There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations
on the holding of the ordinary shares. None of the shares carries any special rights with regards to the control of the Company. There are no
known arrangements under which ﬁnancial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements on
restrictions on share transfers and voting rights.
As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with signiﬁcant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other than those noted
above.
The powers of the Directors are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. These include powers, subject to relevant legislation, to
authorise the issue of the Company’s shares by the Company, subject to authority being given to the Directors by the shareholders in general
meeting.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. Changes to the
Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with legislation in force from time to time.
Post-balance sheet events
On 9 January 2013, the Company granted options over 484,612 ordinary shares of 1p each in the Company, exercisable on 1 February 2016 in
accordance with the rules of the Lonrho Sharesave Scheme at 7.8p per share. 
On 18 January 2013, the Company granted options over 2,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each in the Company under the Lonrho Unapproved
Share Option Plan exercisable at 9.252p per share. The options have a two year vesting period and a four year exercise period from date of
grant. 
On 14 March 2013, 15,825,000 ordinary shares of 1p were issued in relation to the AFEX share purchase agreement.
Share price performance
Between 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012 the share price in London varied between a high of 12.75p and a low of 6.73p and in
Johannesburg a high of Rand 2.10 and a low of Rand 0.90. At 31 December 2012 the mid-market price of the shares was 8.46p in London and
Rand 1.20 in Johannesburg. At 26 March 2013, the mid-market price of the shares was 3.97p in London and Rand 0.9 in Johannesburg.
Political and charitable donations
No political or charitable donations, save for those disclosed on pages 37 to 39, have been made by the Group during the period. The Group is
involved in a number of charitable projects through its subsidiaries, details of which are set out on page 112. 
Report of the Directors continued
For the year ended 3 1 December 20 1 2 Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59
Payment to suppliers
The Group does not follow any code or standard with regard to the payment of its suppliers. The Group’s policy is to agree terms and
conditions with suppliers in advance; payment is then made in accordance with the agreement provided the supplier has met the terms and
conditions. Amounts due to suppliers at the balance sheet date are contained in note 28.
City Code on Takeovers and Mergers
The Panel on Takeovers and Mergers conﬁrmed that, at the date the Listing Particulars were issued in May 1998, Lonrho was subject to the
City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (the “Code”). The Directors believe that, so far as is practicable, they have operated and will continue to
operate the Group so that it will continue to be subject to the Code.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc and to authorise the Directors to ﬁx their remuneration will be proposed at the next Annual General
Meeting in accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the ﬁnancial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group and parent company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law they
are required to prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by
the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company ﬁnancial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the ﬁnancial statements unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their proﬁt or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and parent
company ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
• prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and parent company will
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that
its ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to
them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Report of the Directors, Directors’ Remuneration
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the Company’s
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors conﬁrm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no
relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have
taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s Auditors are aware of
that information.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual report
We conﬁrm to the best of our knowledge:
• the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the information that is cross-referred from the Business Review section of the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the
development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken
as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Registered Office:
J. Hughes Level 2
Company Secretary 25 Berkeley Square
27 March 2013 London
W1J 6HB 60
Financial Statements
We have audited the financial statements of Lonrho plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 set out on pages 61 to 112. The
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 59, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit,
and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at
31 December 2012 and of the group’s loss for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards
the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the financial statements
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 56, in relation to going concern;
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 42 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of
the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Ian Bone
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL
27 March 2013
Independent Auditor’ s Report to the Members of
Lonrho Plc Year ended 31 December 2012 15 months ended 31 December 2011
Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
operations operations Total operations operations Total
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 4, 5 206.5 – 206.5 188.4 0.2 188.6
Cost of sales 6 (146.9) – (146.9) (137.2) (0.7) (137.9)
GROSS PROFIT/(LOSS) 59.6 – 59.6 51.2 (0.5) 50.7
Gain arising on fair valuation of biological assets 6, 16 9.2 – 9.2 27.4 – 27.4
Other operating income 6
– Gains on acquisitions –– – 15.8 – 15.8
– Other 0.6 – 0.6 2.2 – 2.2
Operating costs 6 (77.0) (0.1) (77.1) (80.4) (0.6) (81.0)
OPERATING (LOSS)/PROFIT (7.6) (0.1) (7.7) 16.2 (1.1) 15.1
Finance income 10 5.5 0.1 5.6 6.8 – 6.8
Finance expense 10 (14.7) – (14.7) (16.2) – (16.2)
NET FINANCE (EXPENSE)/INCOME (9.2) 0.1 (9.1) (9.4) – (9.4)
NET OPERATING (LOSS)/PROFIT* (12.3) – (12.3) 9.6 (1.1) 8.5
Share based payments expense 6 (2.3) – (2.3) (0.7) – (0.7)
Amortisation 14 (2.2) – (2.2) (2.1) – (2.1)
OPERATING (LOSS)/PROFIT AFTER FINANCING (16.8) – (16.8) 6.8 (1.1) 5.7
Share of results of associates 18 (4.4) – (4.4) (5.9) – (5.9)
Share of results of jointly controlled entity 19 (10.6) – (10.6) –– –
Gain on contribution of subsidiary to jointly
controlled entity 11 33.5 – 33.5 –– –
Impairment of jointly controlled entity 19 (7.7) – (7.7) –– –
(Loss)/gain on other investments 19 (0.3) – (0.3) 1.0 – 1.0
(LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE TAX (6.3) – (6.3) 1.9 (1.1) 0.8
Income tax credit/(charge) 12 0.3 – 0.3 (0.3) – (0.3)
(LOSS)/PROFIT FOR THE YEAR/PERIOD (6.0) – (6.0) 1.6 (1.1) 0.5
ATTRIBUTABLE TO:
Owners of the Company 24 (1.7) – (1.7) 7.1 (1.1) 6.0
Non-controlling interests 24 (4.3) – (4.3) (5.5) – (5.5)
(LOSS)/PROFIT FOR THE YEAR/PERIOD (6.0) – (6.0) 1.6 (1.1) 0.5
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (pence) 13 (0.11) – (0.11) 0.58 (0.09) 0.49
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (pence) 13 (0.11) – (0.11) 0.57 (0.09) 0.48
The notes on pages 66 to 112 are an integral part of these financial statements.
* The directors have defined Net Operating (Loss)/Profit, a non-GAAP measure, as its key profit performance measure as explained in Note 3.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 3 1 December 2012 and 15 months ended 3 1 December 201 1 Group Company
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2012 2011 2012 2011
Notes £m £m £m £m
Foreign exchange translation differences 24 (14.8) (0.2) – –
Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 15 2.5 7.2 – –
Total other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year/period (12.3) 7.0 – –
(Loss)/profit for the year/period (6.0) 0.5 (21.6) (17.3)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (18.3) 7.5 (21.6) (17.3)
ATTRIBUTABLE TO:
Owners of the Company (13.1) 9.7 (21.6) (17.3)
Non-controlling interests (5.2) (2.2) – –
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (18.3) 7.5 (21.6) (17.3)
The notes on pages 66 to 112 are an integral part of these financial statements.
62
Financial Statements
Consolidated and Company statements of
comprehensive income
For the year ended 3 1 December 2012 and 15 months ended 3 1 December 201 1 2012 2011
Owners Non- Owners Non-
of the controlling of the controlling
Company interests Total Company interests Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
AT 1 JANUARY 2012/1 OCTOBER 2010 135.2 20.5 155.7 107.4 20.3 127.7
(Loss)/profit for the year/period (1.7) (4.3) (6.0) 6.0 (5.5) 0.5
Foreign exchange translation differences (12.9) (1.9) (14.8) (0.5) 0.3 (0.2)
Revaluation of property 1.5 1.0 2.5 4.2 3.0 7.2
Total comprehensive income (13.1) (5.2) (18.3) 9.7 (2.2) 7.5
Issue of shares 23.1 – 23.1 18.9 – 18.9
Costs associated with share issues ––– (0.4) – (0.4)
Provision for warrants 1.0 – 1.0 –––
Share based payment charge 2.3 – 2.3 0.7 – 0.7
Share options exercised 1.1 – 1.1 0.7 – 0.7
Shares issued in relation to earn out agreement 0.4 – 0.4 –––
Subsidiaries acquired ––– – 2.2 2.2
Subsidiaries disposed ––– – (0.2) (0.2)
Transfer from subsidiary to jointly controlled entity 0.5 8.6 9.1 –––
Non-controlling interest dividends – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2) (0.2)
Non-controlling interest put option ––– (2.3) – (2.3)
Capital element of Convertible Bond ––– 1.1 – 1.1
Elimination of non-controlling interest
(1)
––– (0.6) 0.6 –
AT 31 DECEMBER 150.5 23.7 174.2 135.2 20.5 155.7
The notes on pages 66 to 112 are an integral part of these financial statements.
The Company had total equity brought forward of £125.6m (2011: £123.0m), and during the period issued shares of £23.1m
(2011: £18.9m) with share based payment charges of £2.3m (2011: £nil), shares issued in relation to earn out agreement of
£0.4m (2011: £nil), share options issued of £nil (2011: £0.7m), provision for warrants of £1.0m (2011: £nil), share options
exercised of £1.1m (2011: £0.7m), costs associated with share issued of £nil (2011: £0.4m) and a loss for the period of £21.6m
(2011: £17.3m) resulting in total equity carried forward of £131.9m (2011: £125.6m).
(1)
The elimination of non-controlling interest relates to removal of the interest of minority shareholders during the period.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63
Consolidated and Company statements of
changes in equity
For the year ended 3 1 December 2012 and 15 months ended 3 1 December 201 1 64
Financial Statements
Group Company
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2012 2011 2012 2011
Notes £m £m £m £m
ASSETS
Goodwill 14 17.5 17.8 – –
Other intangible assets 14 16.8 21.9 – –
Property, plant and equipment 15 130.0 166.2 0.3 0.4
Biological assets 16 40.4 33.8 – –
Investments in subsidiaries 17 – – 31.5 31.5
Investments in associates 18 – 6.9 – 5.9
Investment in jointly controlled entity 19 37.4 – – –
Other investments 19 0.1 1.7 – –
Deferred tax assets 20 2.0 1.8 – –
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 244.2 250.1 31.8 37.8
Inventories 21 23.1 20.1 – –
Trade and other receivables 22 44.2 48.8 147.5 128.2
Cash at bank 23 17.0 12.7 – –
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 84.3 81.6 147.5 128.2
TOTAL ASSETS 328.5 331.7 179.3 166.0
EQUITY
Share capital 24 16.0 13.0 16.0 13.0
Share premium account 24 140.3 138.2 140.3 138.2
Revaluation reserve 24 9.0 9.1 – –
Share option reserve 24 7.8 5.4 7.8 5.4
Translation reserve 24 (20.7) (10.4) – –
Other reserves 24 31.4 11.0 38.1 17.7
Retained earnings 24 (33.3) (31.1) (70.3) (48.7)
TOTAL EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE COMPANY 150.5 135.2 131.9 125.6
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS 24 23.7 20.5 – –
TOTAL EQUITY 174.2 155.7 131.9 125.6
LIABILITIES
Loans and borrowings 25 76.3 76.7 – –
Deferred tax liabilities 20 3.3 4.1 – –
Obligations under finance leases 25 1.3 18.6 – –
Provisions 29 1.5 – – –
Trade and other payables 28 4.3 16.1 45.1 38.0
TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 86.7 115.5 45.1 38.0
Bank overdraft 23, 25 5.9 12.2 1.0 0.7
Loans and borrowings 25 22.9 3.0 – –
Obligations under finance leases 25 1.2 4.9 – –
Trade and other payables 28 37.2 39.7 1.3 1.7
Tax liability 0.4 0.7 – –
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 67.6 60.5 2.3 2.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES 154.3 176.0 47.4 40.4
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 328.5 331.7 179.3 166.0
The notes on pages 66 to 112 are an integral part of these financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 27 March 2013. They were
signed on its behalf by:
Geoffrey White
Director & Chief Executive Officer
Consolidated and Company statements of
financial position
As at 3 1 December 2012 and 3 1 December 201 1 Group Company
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2012 2011 2012 2011
Notes £m £m £m £m
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
(Loss)/profit for the period (6.0) 0.5 (21.6) (17.3)
Adjustments 30 1.9 (16.4) 14.0 4.9
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES BEFORE
MOVEMENTS IN WORKING CAPITAL (4.1) (15.9) (7.6) (12.4)
Change in inventories (8.1) (14.3) – –
Change in trade and other receivables (9.8) (17.3) (19.7) (43.1)
Change in trade and other payables 0.2 13.3 0.4 37.1
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS (21.8) (34.2) (26.9) (18.4)
Interest received 0.7 0.8 – 0.1
Interest paid (10.7) (8.1) – –
Interest element of finance lease rental payments (0.4) (0.5) – –
Income tax paid (0.9) (1.2) – –
NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (33.1) (43.2) (26.9) (18.3)
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 2.6 2.2 – –
Investment in restricted cash (3.2) (3.2) – –
Utilisation of restricted cash 3.2 – – –
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 7 (0.9) (6.1) – –
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 15 (12.6) (18.4) (0.1) (0.1)
Acquisition of intangible assets 14 (0.4) (5.1) – –
Acquisition of associates and joint ventures – (1.2) – (1.2)
Proceeds from sale of associates 18 2.5 – 1.1 –
Proceeds from sale of other investments 19 1.0 – – –
Bank overdraft transferred to jointly controlled entity 11 3.5 – – –
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertaking – 0.7 – –
NET CASH FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES (4.3) (31.1) 1.0 (1.3)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from the issue of share capital net of costs 24 24.1 18.9 24.1 18.9
Proceeds from the issue of share options 24 1.1 0.7 1.1 0.7
Loan advance 28.3 61.1 – –
Finance leases advanced 1.3 – – –
Repayment of borrowings (3.9) (10.6) – (1.3)
Payment of finance lease liabilities (2.7) (3.7) – –
Non-controlling interest dividends paid 24 (0.2) 0.2 – –
Dividends received from Group companies – – 0.4 –
NET CASH FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 48.0 66.6 25.6 18.3
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 10.6 (7.7) (0.3) (1.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period (2.7) 3.9 (0.7) 0.6
Foreign exchange movements – 1.1 – –
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF THE PERIOD 23 7.9 (2.7) (1.0) (0.7)
The notes on pages 66 to 112 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
Consolidated and Company statements of cash flows
For the year ended 3 1 December 2012 and 15 months ended 3 1 December 201 1 1. Reporting entity
Lonrho Plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial
statements of the Company for the 12 month period ended 31 December 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries
(together referred to as the “Group”) and the Group’s interest in associates and jointly controlled entities.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 27 March 2013.
The Company changed its financial year end from 30 September to 31 December annually with effect from the financial period
ended 31 December 2011. Accordingly the comparative period information is for the 15 month period to 31 December 2011.
2. Basis of preparation
Statement of compliance
Both the parent Company and the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (Adopted IFRS). On publishing the parent Company
financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in
section 408(4) of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of
these approved financial statements. The loss of the Company is disclosed in note 24 to the accounts.
Going concern
Although the current on-going economic conditions create uncertainty, the Group’s forecast and projections, taking into
account possible changes in trading performance, together with mitigating actions that are within managements control show
that the Group is expected to be able to operate within the level of its debt facilities.
The directors are carefully monitoring cash resources across the Group and have instigated a number of initiatives to ensure
funding will be available for planned projects.
Following the careful review of on-going performance, and after making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Functional and presentation currency
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the Company’s functional currency. All financial information
presented has been rounded to the nearest £0.1m.
Basis of measurement
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain long leasehold
properties, related derivative financial instruments at fair value and certain jointly controlled entities and biological assets at fair
value.
The accounting policies set out in these financial statements have been applied to all periods presented. A number of new
standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2013 and
have not been applied in preparing the Group accounts. None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the financial
statements of the group, except for IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The Group does not plan to adopt this standard early and the
extent of the impact has not been determined.
Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates
and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of
assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Estimates made by management in the application of Adopted IFRS that have significant effect on the financial statements with a
significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in the following notes:
• valuation of associates (note 18)
• valuation of biological assets (note 16)
• share of results of jointly controlled entity (note 19)
• impairment of interest in jointly controlled entity (note 19)
66
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements Judgements made by management in the application of Adopted IFRS that have significant effect on the financial statements
are:
• the determination of the functional currencies of subsidiaries (note 3c)
• the determination of the accounting treatment in respect of the acquisition of investments as either associates, joint ventures
or subsidiaries (note 3(a))
• the determination whether certain transactions represent business combinations (note 7)
• the determination of investments as jointly controlled entity based on relative shareholder interest (note 11)
• the conclusion as to whether certain businesses should be presented as part of continuing or discontinuing operations
(note 8)
The timing of revenue recognition is not subject to significant uncertainty.
3. Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial
statements. The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
(a) Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Lonrho Plc and entities controlled by Lonrho Plc
(its subsidiaries). Control is achieved where Lonrho Plc (the Company) has the power to govern the financial and operating
policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The portion of a non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the fair values of the assets and
liabilities recognised. Subsequently, losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of the non-controlling interest in
the subsidiary’s equity are allocated against the interests of the Group where the non-controlling interest has a specific
exemption from making an additional investment to cover the losses. Future profits attributable to the non-controlling interest
are not recognised until the unrecognised losses have been extinguished.
The results of entities acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Associates and Joint Ventures and jointly controlled entities
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and
operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power
of another entity. Jointly controlled entities are those entities whose activities the Group has joint control, established by
contractual arrangement.
Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities are accounted for under the equity method and are usually recognised
initially at cost. The cost of the investment includes transaction costs. Upon contribution of a subsidiary to a jointly controlled
entity, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, and replaces with the fair value of the jointly controlled
entity. Any gain arising is recognised in full in the income statement.
The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of
equity-accounted investees, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that
significant influence or joint control commences until the date that significant influence or joint control ceases.
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of the investment,
including any long term interests that form part thereof, is reduced to zero, and the recognition of further losses is discontinued
except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the investee.
The Company records interests in associate, joint ventures and jointly controlled entities initially at cost and thereafter at cost
less provisions for impairment.
The acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is
measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and
contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition
date, except for non-current assets that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, which are recognised and
measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67
2. Basis of preparation (continued) Business combinations
Goodwill arising on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the
Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
When the excess is negative the identified fair values are reassessed to ensure that all acquired assets and liabilities have been
recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The interest of non-controlling interests in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the
net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Put options
Equity put options held by non-controlling interest holders are recognised as financial liabilities at the present value of amounts
payable on their exercise with a corresponding entry to other reserves. The Group continues to recognise non-controlling
interests in respect of these equity investments where the risks and rewards of ownership are deemed to have been retained by
the non-controlling interest holders.
(b) Intangible assets 
Goodwill
Positive goodwill arising on consolidation is recognised as an asset.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is subject to impairment reviews, at least annually, and measured at cost less accumulated
impairment losses. The recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date. Any impairment loss is recognised immediately
in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed when the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable
amount.
Any impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any
goodwill allocated to cash-generating units (groups of units) and then, to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit
(groups of units) on a pro rata basis.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to adopted IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP
amounts, after being tested for impairment at that date.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are measured initially at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The carrying amount is reduced by any provision for impairment where necessary.
On a business combination, as well as recording separable intangible assets already recognised in the statement of financial
position of the acquired entity at their fair value, identifiable intangible assets that are separable or arise from contractual or
other legal rights are also included in the acquisition statement of financial position at fair value.
Amortisation on intangible assets is charged on a straight line basis over their useful economic life, on the following basis:
Brands 5 years
Intellectual property 5 years
Licences Life of licence, not to exceed 5 years
Customer relationships 5 years – 10 years
Franchises 5 years
Contractual rights Life of right, not to exceed 20 years
Costs directly associated with the acquisition of the licenses required to provide commercial airline services are capitalised as
intangible assets in accordance with IAS38 within contractual rights. Costs are capitalised from the point that it is highly likely
the conditions to acquire the licence will be met and the commercial success of the airline operations is anticipated. Capitalised
costs excluded start up losses and any costs not directly attributable to obtaining the licence. No such costs have been incurred
in 2012 as they did not meet the conditions for capitalisation as intangible assets.
(c) Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment
in which it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial
position of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the
presentational currency for the consolidated financial statements.
68
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated
into the respective functional currency of the Group entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the reporting date. Non-monetary assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the
exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in
the income statement for the period. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair
value in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity are also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are
translated at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. Income and expense are translated at the average exchange rates
for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case weighted average rates are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified in equity and are transferred to the Group’s foreign currency translation
reserve within equity. Such translation is recognised as income or as expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
All foreign exchange gains or losses that are reflected in the income statement are presented within financing income or
expense.
(d) Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current taxation
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that
are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted
for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences
and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises
from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction
that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the investments in subsidiaries and associates,
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates substantially enacted at the reporting date, that apply in the period when the liability is
settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items
charged or credited to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
(e) Investments
The Group’s investments in equity securities that are not associates or joint ventures are classified as either available-for-sale
financial assets or assets at fair value through profit and loss. This designation is made on acquisition of individual investments.
For available for sale financial assets subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value or cost where fair value
cannot be assessed and changes therein, other than impairment losses (see below), are recognised directly in equity. When an
investment is de-recognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to the income statement. For assets at fair value
through profit and loss, subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and changes recognised within
gains/losses on other investments in the income statement.
Impairment
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect
on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying
amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate. An
impairment loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset is calculated by reference to its fair value.
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Any cumulative loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial
asset recognised previously in equity is transferred to the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was
recognised. For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in the income statement. For available-
for-sale financial assets that are equity securities, the reversal is recognised directly in equity.
(f) Property, plant and equipment
Long leasehold land and buildings are stated in the statement of financial position at their revalued amounts, being the fair value
at the date of revaluation, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Revaluations are performed with sufficient regularity such that the carrying amount does not differ materially from that which
would be determined using fair values at the reporting date.
Any revaluation increase arising on the revaluation of such land and buildings is credited to the revaluation reserve, except to the
extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease for the same asset previously recognised as an expense, in which case the increase
is credited to the income statement to the extent of the decrease previously charged. A decrease in carrying amount arising on
the revaluation of such land and building is charged as an expense to the extent that it exceeds the balance if any, held in the
revaluation reserve relating to a previous revaluation of that asset. Depreciation on revalued buildings is charged to the income
statement. On subsequent sale or retirement of a revalued property, the attributable revaluation surplus remaining is transferred
directly to retained earnings.
All other assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets (less estimated residual values updated annually), other
than long leasehold land, over their estimated useful lives, on the following basis:
Long leasehold land and buildings 2% of cost
Short leasehold land and buildings Over the term of the lease
Plant and machinery 10% of cost
Fixtures and fittings 15% – 25% of cost
Aircraft 5% – 6.67% of cost
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying
amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement for the period.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where
shorter, over the relevant lease term.
In respect of aircraft, subsequent costs incurred which lend enhancement to future periods such as long term scheduled
maintenance and major overhaul of aircraft and engines are capitalised and amortised over the length of the period benefiting
from those enhancements. All other costs relating to maintenance are charged to the income statement as incurred.
(g) Biological assets
Certain Group subsidiaries involved in the production of fresh produce recognise biological assets, which includes agricultural
produce due for harvest on fruit plantations. Under IAS41, Biological Assets are required to be included at fair value. Fair value is
determined by reference to the net present value of the biological assets at the reporting date. Biological assets are stated at fair
value less estimated point of sale costs, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement. The valuation of the
fruit plantations is based on discounted cashflow models whereby the fair value of the assets is calculated using cashflows for
continuous operations taking into account growth and yield potential.
When the fruit or other biological asset is harvested, it is transferred to inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
(h) Impairment of assets excluding goodwill, inventories and deferred tax assets
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the
asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment loss. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that
are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset
belongs. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the
70
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been
adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount in which
case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount,
in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
(i) Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s statement of financial position when the Group becomes a
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits and other short term highly liquid investments that are
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts that
are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and
cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest rate method. Appropriate allowances for estimated recoverable amounts are recognised in the income
statement when there is objective evidence the asset is impaired.
Restricted cash
Restricted cash is cash at bank that is not freely available due to specific restrictions on its use (note 23). It is presented together
with Cash and cash equivalents as Cash at bank in the Statement of financial position.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
rate method.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative cash flow hedging instruments 
Derivative cash flow hedging instruments are initially recognised, and subsequently measured, at fair value. The fair values of
derivative hedging instruments are determined based on market data to calculate the present value of all estimated cash flows
associated with each instrument at the balance sheet date. Changes in their fair values are recognised directly in other
comprehensive income (to the extent that they are effective), with the ineffective portion being recognised in the income
statement. In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document prospectively the relationship between
the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging
instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis. This effectiveness testing is re-performed
periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, and is expected to remain, highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is derecognised (e.g. through expiry or disposal), or no longer
qualifies for hedge accounting. Where the hedged item is a highly probable forecast transaction, the related gains and losses
remain in equity until the transaction takes place, when they are reclassified to the income statement. When a hedged future
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) transaction is no longer expected to occur, any related gains and losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income,
are immediately reclassified to the income statement.
Derivative fair value changes recognised in the income statement are either reflected in arriving at operating profit (if the hedged
item is similarly reflected) or in finance expense.
(j) Capital management
The Board’s policy for the Group and Company is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and
market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors ROCE (return on capital
employed) and ROE (return on equity) as part of its capital management.
(k) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and where applicable direct
expenditure and attributable overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and
condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
(l) Share based payments
The Group provides benefits to certain employees, including senior executives, in the form of share based payments, whereby
employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (equity-settled transactions). The cost of these equity-
settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which
they are granted. The fair value is determined by using a Black-Scholes model. The dilutive effect, if any, of outstanding options
is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.
(m) Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value
being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
(n) Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised when paid and final dividends are recognised as liabilities in the period in which they are
approved by shareholders.
(o) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as
a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the
effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
(p) Revenue recognition
Revenue, for the other major segments not detailed below, is derived from the sale of goods and services and is measured at
the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value-added tax and other sales
taxes. A sale of goods and services is recognised when recovery of the consideration is probable, there is no continuing
management involvement with the goods and services and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
A sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer, the associated costs
and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably. This is when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer and the
goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
A sale of services is recognised when the service has been rendered.
Infrastructure division
Included within the infrastructures division is revenue from port activities. Revenue from port activities represents the income
earned from the provision of port facilities, which comprise cargo and other handling, towage, pilotage, conservancy and waste
management services and port related rental income. Such revenue is recorded once the service has been provided.
Agribusiness division
Revenue for the agribusiness division includes the invoice value of goods where the Group grows or takes ownership risk on the
relevant produce. Where the Group provides logistics or processing services without taking ownership risk on the relevant
produce, revenue comprises the invoiced value of the services provided. Revenue is recognised when the supply of the goods
or services are completed. There are no discounts or other arrangements that create uncertainty over the level of revenue
recognised.
72
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) Support services division
The Group supplies an immaterial amount of bundled IT services. When these occur revenue is allocated based on the fair
values of the respective services provided.
Aircraft division
Revenue for the aircraft division comprises the invoiced value of airline services, net of passenger taxes, discounts, plus ancillary
revenue. Revenue from the sale of flight seats (passenger revenue) is recognised in the period in which the service is provided.
Unearned revenue represents flight seats sold but not yet flown and is included within deferred income.
(q) Leases
Leases are classified according to the substance of the transaction. A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership to the lessee is classified as a finance lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Finance leases
Finance leases are capitalised in the statement of financial position at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability is shown as a finance lease
obligation to the lessor. Leasing repayments comprise both a capital and a finance element. The finance element is written off to
the income statement so as to produce an approximately constant periodic rate of charge on the outstanding obligation.
Operating leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
(r) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, which are assets that
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets,
until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is
deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
(s) Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted loss per share is based upon the weighted average number of shares in issue throughout the year, adjusted for the
dilutive effect of potential ordinary shares. The potential dilutive ordinary shares in issue are employee share options and the
equity conversion element of the convertible bond.
(t) Reportable Segments
Segments are determined to be the lowest operational segment that the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) evaluates
the result of the segment and allocates resources to that segment. This is based on the Group’s internal organisation and the
financial information provided to the CODM.
(u) Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale
Non-current assets (or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities) that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale
rather than through continuing use are classified as held for sale. Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets (or
components of a disposal group) are remeasured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter generally the
assets (or disposal group) are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. Any impairment loss
on a disposal group first is allocated to goodwill, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no
loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets and deferred tax assets, which continue to be measured in accordance with the
Group’s accounting policies. Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent gains or losses on re-
measurement are recognised in the income statement. Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
(v) Convertible bonds
Convertible bonds are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of a liability component and either an equity component
or an embedded derivative component.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-
convertible debt. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the
liability component represents the value of either an equity component or an embedded derivative component attributable to
the embedded option to convert the bonds into equity of the Group.
IAS 32 states that a derivative contract that will be settled by the entity receiving or delivering a fixed number of its own equity
instruments in exchange for a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset is an equity instrument. It also states that a
contract that will be settled by the entity delivering or receiving a fixed number of its own equity instruments in exchange for a
variable amount of cash or another financial asset is a financial asset or financial liability. For the purposes of the consolidated
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) financial statements, when making the assessment of whether a convertible bond, when exercised, gives rise to the exchange of
a fixed or variable amount of cash, or other financial asset, the functional currency of the parent company relative to the
currency denomination of the bonds is considered in addition to other features within the bond.
For convertible bonds issued by the Group where there is a difference between the currency of the bond and the functional
currency of the issuer, the embedded option to convert the bonds is recorded as a derivative liability because it is not a contract
to exchange a fixed number of shares for a fixed amount of bonds. The embedded derivative liability component is separately
identified and measured at fair value through profit or loss. For convertible bonds issued by the Group where the currency of the
bond and the functional currency of the issuer are the same, i.e. where on conversion of the bonds a fixed number of shares is
exchanged for a fixed amount of bonds, the value of the embedded option to convert the bonds is recorded within equity on
initial recognition.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and embedded option components of the convertible bonds (recorded as
equity or as a derivative liability) based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-
convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument. This interest expense, recognised in the income statement, is
calculated using the effective interest method, i.e. the difference between the interest expense on the liability component and
the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bond.
(w) Non-GAAP measures
Following a review of key performance indicators used by the Directors and consultations with key stakeholders, the Directors
have revised the key non-GAAP profit measure used to monitor performance of the business. From 1 January 2012 the key non-
GAAP profit measure used by the board is net operating profit which is defined as operating profit before amortisation of
acquired intangible assets and share based payment charges less net finance charges. The directors believe that this measure
best reflect the trading performance of the group.
4. Segment reporting
The “Chief Operating Decision Maker” (CODM) is deemed to be the Executive Committee who monitors the results of the
business segments to assess performance and make decisions about the allocation of revenues. Segment performance is
evaluated on both revenue and net operating profit/(loss).
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that are allocated on a
reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets and expenses.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used
for more than one period.
There is no inter-segment revenue.
Business segments
The Group has four core continuing reportable segments which are organised around the basis of products and services which
they provide:
• Agribusiness
• Infrastructure
• Support services
• Hotels
The Group has not aggregated any operating segment in arriving at this analysis. Following the contribution of a subsidiary to a
jointly controlled entity (note 11), the transportation division from the 29 June 2012 is no longer considered a core operating
division but remains a continuing operation. This is consistent with the reports provided to the (CODM).
The head office division includes head office costs that are not allocated to the operating divisions. The revenue from the head
office division relates to income from related parties.
Geographical analysis
All of the segments operate in various parts of Africa, Europe and Americas.
74
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies (continued) Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75
Business segments
Year ended 31 December 2012
Core Dis-
Agri- Infra- Support Head operating Trans- Continuing continued
business structure Services Hotels office divisions portation operations operations Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
EXTERNAL REVENUE 123.6 23.5 27.0 11.9 0.3 186.3 20.2 206.5 – 206.5
Net operating profit/(loss):
Segment result* 2.0 2.8 2.1 (1.9) (8.4) (3.4) (8.9) (12.3) – (12.3) 
Amortisation (1.4) – (0.3) – – (1.7) (0.5) (2.2) – (2.2)
Share based payments expense – – – – (2.3) (2.3) – (2.3) – (2.3)
OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS) 
AFTER FINANCING 0.6 2.8 1.8 (1.9) (10.7) (7.4) (9.4) (16.8) – (16.8)
Share of results of associates – – – – (4.4) (4.4) – (4.4) – (4.4)
Share of results of jointly controlled 
entity – – – – (10.6) (10.6) – (10.6) – (10.6)
Gain on contribution of subsidiary to 
jointly controlled entity – – – – 33.5 33.5 – 33.5 – 33.5
Impairment of jointly controlled entity – – – – (7.7) (7.7) – (7.7) – (7.7)
Loss on other investments – – – – (0.3) (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.3)
Income tax credit/(charge) 1.3 (0.3) (0.3) (0.4) – 0.3 – 0.3 – 0.3
PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR 1.9 2.5 1.5 (2.3) (0.2) 3.4 (9.4) (6.0) – (6.0)
Net operating profit/(loss) before 
financing 4.9 4.3 2.1 (0.4) (6.4) 4.5 (7.6) (3.1) (0.1) (3.2)
Net finance (expense)/income (2.9) (1.5) – (1.5) (2.0) (7.9) (1.3) (9.2) 0.1 (9.1)
NET OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS): 
SEGMENT RESULT* 2.0 2.8 2.1 (1.9) (8.4) (3.4) (8.9) (12.3) – (12.3) 
* See accounting policy note (w).
4. Segment reporting (continued) Business segments
15 months ended 31 December 2011
Core Dis-
Agri- Infra- Support Head operating Trans- Continuing continued
business structure Services Hotels office division portation operations operations Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
EXTERNAL REVENUE 94.5 21.8 25.1 11.5 – 152.9 35.5 188.4 0.2 188.6
Net operating profit/(loss):
Segment result* 32.5 (2.4) 1.4 3.1 (14.0) 20.6 (11.0) 9.6 (1.1) 8.5
Amortisation (1.0) (0.1) (0.4) – – (1.5) (0.6) (2.1) – (2.1)
Share based payments expense – – – – (0.7) (0.7) – (0.7) – (0.7)
OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS) 
AFTER FINANCING 31.5 (2.5) 1.0 3.1 (14.7) 18.4 (11.6) 6.8 (1.1) 5.7
Share of results of associates – – – – (5.9) (5.9) – (5.9) – (5.9)
Share of results of jointly controlled 
entity – – – – – – – – – –
Gain on contribution of subsidiary to 
jointly controlled entity – – – – – – – – – –
Gain on other investments 0.6 – – – 0.4 1.0 – 1.0 – 1.0
Income tax credit/(charge) (0.4) – (0.5) (0.2) 0.8 (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.3)
PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE PERIOD 31.7 (2.5) 0.5 2.9 (19.4) 13.2 (11.6) 1.6 (1.1) 0.5
Net operating profit/(loss) before 
financing 35.4 (1.6) 0.6 3.3 (9.5) 28.2 (9.2) 19.0 (1.1) 17.9
Net finance (expense)/income (2.9) (0.8) 0.8 (0.2) (4.5) (7.6) (1.8) (9.4) – (9.4)
NET OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS): 
SEGMENT RESULT* 32.5 (2.4) 1.4 3.1 (14.0) 20.6 (11.0) 9.6 (1.1) 8.5
* See accounting policy note (w).
Year ended 31 December 2012
Core Dis-
Agri- Infra- Support Head operating Trans- Continuing continued
business structure Services Hotels office divisions portation operations operations Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment operating assets 136.8 85.4 16.2 46.3 – 284.7 – 284.7 0.7 285.4
Other investments – – – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Investment in jointly controlled 
entity – – – – 37.4 37.4 – 37.4 – 37.4
Unallocated assets/interest bearing 
assets – – – – 5.6 5.6 – 5.6 – 5.6
TOTAL ASSETS 136.8 85.4 16.2 46.3 43.1 327.8 – 327.8 0.7 328.5
Segment operating liabilities 60.9 15.9 9.5 18.5 – 104.8 – 104.8 0.5 105.3
Unallocated liabilities/interest 
bearing liabilities – – – – 49.0 49.0 – 49.0 – 49.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES 60.9 15.9 9.5 18.5 49.0 153.8 – 153.8 0.5 154.3
Depreciation of segment assets 2.7 3.5 0.6 1.5 0.2 8.5 1.1 9.6 – 9.6
Amortisation of segment assets 1.4 – 0.3 – – 1.7 0.5 2.2 – 2.2
Capital expenditure 7.2 3.0 0.6 3.0 0.2 14.0 0.3 14.3 – 14.3
76
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
4. Segment reporting (continued) 15 months ended 31 December 2011
Core Dis-
Agri- Infra- Support Head operating Trans- Continuing continued
business structure Services Hotels office divisions portation operations operations Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment operating assets 112.2 82.1 15.3 46.4 – 256.0 53.0 309.0 0.3 309.3
Investments in associates – – – – 6.9 6.9 – 6.9 – 6.9
Other investments – – – – 1.7 1.7 – 1.7 – 1.7
Investment in jointly controlled 
entity – – – – – – – – – –
Unallocated assets/interest bearing 
assets – – – – 13.8 13.8 – 13.8 – 13.8
TOTAL ASSETS 112.2 82.1 15.3 46.4 22.4 278.4 53.0 331.4 0.3 331.7
Segment operating liabilities 47.1 13.2 9.0 16.9 – 86.2 39.5 125.7 0.1 125.8
Unallocated liabilities/interest 
bearing liabilities – – – – 50.2 50.2 – 50.2 – 50.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES 47.1 13.2 9.0 16.9 50.2 136.4 39.5 175.9 0.1 176.0
Depreciation of segment assets 2.3 4.1 0.6 1.5 0.2 8.7 1.2 9.9 – 9.9
Amortisation of segment assets 1.0 0.1 0.4 – – 1.5 0.6 2.1 – 2.1
Capital expenditure 6.4 4.7 0.8 0.5 0.1 12.5 30.9 43.4 – 43.4
Geographical analysis
Year ended 31 December 2012
Consolidated
Southern East West Central continuing Discontinuing
Africa Africa Africa Africa Europe Americas Asia operations operation
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue by location of 
external customers 123.7 27.3 18.4 18.8 5.7 10.9 1.7 206.5 –
Revenue by location of 
assets 144.3 25.2 17.7 18.8 0.5 – – 206.5 –
Net assets 99.4 2.1 69.5 8.8 (5.9) – – 173.9 0.3
Capital expenditure 9.9 0.5 2.9 0.9 0.1 – – 14.3 –
15 months ended 31 December 2011
Consolidated
Southern East West Central continuing Discontinuing
Africa Africa Africa Africa Europe Americas operations operation
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue by location of 
external customers 100.3 36.5 16.2 10.0 19.0 6.4 188.4 0.2
Revenue by location of assets 128.2 35.9 14.7 8.9 0.7 – 188.4 0.2
Net assets/(liabilities) 66.4 10.7 65.1 20.3 (7.0) – 155.5 0.2
Capital expenditure 7.7 30.3 4.9 0.3 0.2 – 43.4 –
5. Revenue
Continuing operations Discontinued operation Total
Year 15 months Year 15 months Year 15 months
ended 31 ended 31 ended 31 ended 31 ended 31 ended 31
December December December December December December
2012 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Sale of goods 80.3 52.1 – – 80.3 52.1
Services 126.2 136.3 – 0.2 126.2 136.5
206.5 188.4 – 0.2 206.5 188.6
Included in Revenue from services is £1.7m in the Infrastructure division (2011: £nil) from barter transactions where goods in
kind rather than cash was received for services rendered.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77
4. Segment reporting (continued) 6. Group net operating costs
Year 15 months
ended 31 ended 31
December December
2012 2011
£m £m
Cost of sales 146.9 137.9
Operating costs 77.1 81.0
Gain arising on fair valuation of biological assets (note 16)* (9.2) (27.4)
Other operating income (0.6) (18.0)
NET OPERATING COSTS 214.2 173.5
INCLUDED IN NET OPERATING COSTS ABOVE ARE:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9.6 9.9
Amortisation of intangible assets (other than goodwill) 2.2 2.1
Share based payments (notes 24 and 27) 2.3 0.7
Operating lease rentals:
– Land and buildings 3.1 1.7
– Plant and machinery 0.2 –
– Aircraft 3.4 6.0
Staff costs (note 9) 35.0 41.4
Legal fees and listing costs 1.6 2.8
Gain on acquisition – ATdm (note 7)* – (4.0)
Gain on acquisition – Home Farms (note 7)* – (11.8)
Restructuring and reorganisation costs 4.0 –
Pre-operating losses 1.8 –
Acquisition costs – 0.5
Impairment of trade receivables 0.5 0.5
Impairment of other investments – 0.4
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.4 –
Profit on disposal of subsidiary – (0.5)
Included in the prior period result of the transportation segment are start up costs of £8.1m.
* In accordance with the requirements of IAS 1, the Directors have presented movements in the fair value of biological assets and gains arising on acquisition as separate
items on the face of the income statement to provide full visibility of these items.
Auditors remuneration
Year 15 months
ended 31 ended 31
December December
2012 2011
£m £m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.1 0.1
For the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.4
Total audit fees 0.4 0.5
All services related to corporate finance transactions* – 0.8
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditors 0.4 1.3
* Fees relating to listing and share issues during the period.
78
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 7. Acquisition of subsidiaries
7(a) Acquisition of subsidiaries in the current period
LONAGRO TANZANIA
With effect from 17 January 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of LonAgro Tanzania Limited for a
consideration of US$1.4m (£0.9 m). LonAgro Tanzania is based in Dar es Salaam, the commercial hub of Tanzania, and has
exclusive John Deere distributorship for Tanzania.
Fair value Values
Pre acquisition adjustment recognised on
carrying value on acquisition acquisition
£m £m £m
Inventory 0.1 – 0.1
Intangible assets related to franchise – 1.2 1.2
Trade and other payables (0.1) – (0.1)
Deferred tax liability – (0.3) (0.3)
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES – 0.9 0.9
Consideration paid –– 0.9
Goodwill on acquisition – – –
LonAgro Tanzania contributed £1.8m to the Group’s revenue and £0.4m loss before tax for the period between the date of
acquisition and the reporting date.
There were no significant transaction costs incurred to acquire the company.
7(b) Acquisition of subsidiaries in the prior period
AFEX
With effect from 1 January 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Global Horizons Ltd a company
registered in the Isle of Man (which via subsidiaries in Kenya and South Sudan trades as AFEX) for an initial consideration of
US$3m (£1.9m). Further payments of up to US$5m (£3.1m) will be payable over two years based on an EBIT related earn-out
formula. AFEX’s main focus of current operations is in supplying secure accommodation in Juba in the Republic of South Sudan.
This infrastructure is in great demand from corporate clients, NGO’s, and Government Aid Agencies working in the Republic of
South Sudan.
The transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the net assets at 1 January
2011 is set out below:
Fair value Values
Pre acquisition adjustment recognised on
carrying value on acquisition acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 2.9 – 2.9
Inventory 0.1 – 0.1
Trade and other receivables 1.6 – 1.6
Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 – 0.6
Trade and other payables (3.3) 0.1 (3.2)
Deferred tax liability – (0.5) (0.5)
Intangible related to customer relationships – 2.3 2.3
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 1.9 1.9 3.8
Consideration paid 1.9
Contingent consideration 2.5
Goodwill on acquisition 0.6
The transaction costs incurred to acquire the company were £0.1m and have been expensed in operating costs in the income
statement.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of AFEX is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the distribution of the company’s
services to new customers and the value attributed to the skills and experience of the acquired work force.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79 In 2011, AFEX contributed £8.4m to the Group’s revenue and £0.7m profit to the Group’s profit before tax for the period
between the date of acquisition and the reporting date.
There have been no changes in the recognised amount of contingent consideration, which have been based on the future
probability of the business. 
FISH ON LINE (PTY) LIMITED
With effect from 1 June 2011, the Group acquired 51% of the issued share capital of Fish On Line (Pty) Limited for an initial
consideration of £0.3m.
Pursuant to the share purchase agreement, the sellers have been granted a put option to sell their remaining 49% to Lonrho
three years after the signature date at a purchase price of 6x multiple of Fish On Line’s profit before tax for the 2014 financial
year end, which is capped at a maximum of South African Rand (ZAR) 35.0m (£3.0m).
The transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the net assets at 1 June 2011 is
set out below:
Fair value Values
Pre acquisition adjustment recognised on
carrying value on acquisition acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 0.1 – 0.1
Inventory 0.8 – 0.8
Trade and other receivables 1.2 – 1.2
Cash and Cash equivalents (0.8) – (0.8)
Trade and other payables (0.7) – (0.7)
Loans and borrowings (0.2) – (0.2)
Intangible related to customer relationships – 0.1 0.1
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 0.4 0.1 0.5
Non-controlling interest share (0.2)
Consideration paid 0.3
Goodwill on acquisition –
The transaction costs incurred to acquire the company were £0.1m and have been expensed in operating costs in the income
statement. The transaction has been accounted using the present access method as the non-controlling interest is considered
to have an ongoing interest in the results of the company. The put option liability has been calculated at £2.3m allowing for the
effect of discounting. The corresponding entry has been recorded as a debit to other reserves.
In 2011, Fish On Line (Pty) Limited contributed £5.8m to the Group’s revenue and £0.1m loss to the Group’s profit before tax for
the period between the date of acquisition and the reporting date.
80
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
7. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
7(b) Acquisition of subsidiaries in the prior period (continued) Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81
GRINDROD PCA (now LONRHO LOGISTICS)
With effect from 1 July 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the trading assets of South African based Grindrod PCA for a
consideration of ZAR 50m (£4.6m).
The transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the net assets at 1 July 2011 is
set out below:
Fair value Values
Pre acquisition adjustment recognised on
carrying value on acquisition acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 0.6 – 0.6
Trade and other receivables 5.4 – 5.4
Cash and Cash equivalents 0.9 – 0.9
Trade and other payables (5.1) – (5.1)
Deferred tax liability – (0.3) (0.3)
Intangible related to customer relationships – 1.2 1.2
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 1.8 0.9 2.7
Consideration paid 4.6
Contingent consideration –
Goodwill on acquisition 1.9
The transaction costs incurred to acquire the company were £0.1m and have been expensed in operating costs in the income
statement.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Grindrod PCA is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the distribution of the
company’s services, and the experience and expertise of the acquired work force.
In 2011, Grindrod PCA contributed £17.2m to the Group’s revenue and £0.2m profit to the Group’s profit before tax for the
period between the date of acquisition and the reporting date.
7. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
7(b) Acquisition of subsidiaries in the prior period (continued) ALDEAMENTO TURISTICO DE MACUTI SARL “ATDM”
On 30 September 2011, the Group acquired 80% of the issued share capital of ATdM from Cambria Africa Plc (formally LonZim
Plc) for US$5.1m (£3.4m), which will be settled in cash over the next 5 years. Pursuant to the share purchase agreement, Lonrho
Hotels will also take responsibility for liabilities up to US$2.7m (£1.7m), the fair value of which has been determined at £1.2m.
The transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the net assets at 30 September
2011 is set out below:
Fair value Values
Pre acquisition adjustment recognised on
carrying value on acquisition acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 4.5 6.1 10.6
Trade and other payables (0.6) – (0.6)
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 3.9 6.1 10.0
Non-controlling interest share (2.0)
Liabilities acquired not attributable to non-controlling interest 0.6
Deferred consideration 3.4
Gain on acquisition (4.0)
The transaction costs incurred to acquire the company were £0.1m and have been expensed in operating costs in the income
statement.
As a first phase Lonrho Hotels plans to refurbish existing property on the site to establish an easyHotel by Lonrho and provide
quality office space for key companies seeking to establish offices in Beira.
The negative goodwill arising on the acquisition of ATdM is attributable to the fair value of the property reflecting its current
development potential and arises as the vendor was unable to provide the necessary experience and funding required to exploit
the business fully and realise its fair value. The gain arising from negative goodwill of £4.0m is presented within operating
income within the income statement.
In 2011, ATdM contributed £nil to the Group’s revenue and £nil profit to the Group’s profit before tax for the period between the
date of acquisition, and the reporting date. 
82
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
7. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
7(b) Acquisition of subsidiaries in the prior period (continued) HOME FARMS
On 31 August 2011 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Sportsgear Investments (Private) Limited, Burp Track
Investments (Private) Limited and Crosshairs Point (Private) Limited collectively known as Home Farms for a consideration of
US$60. Home Farms consists of 3 leased farms (20 year leases) and substantial leasehold buildings including a 58,000 square
feet agricultural packhouse and high care unit.
The transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The fair value of the net assets at 31 August
2011 is set out below:
Fair value Values
Pre acquisition adjustment recognised on
carrying value on acquisition acquisition
£m £m £m
Intangible related to operating leases – 11.8 11.8
Inventory 0.1 – 0.1
Trade and other payables – (0.1) (0.1)
NET IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 0.1 11.7 11.8
Consideration paid –
Contingent consideration –
Gain on acquisition (11.8)
The transaction costs incurred to acquire the company were £0.1m and have been expensed in operating costs in the income
statement.
The negative goodwill arising on the acquisition of Home Farms is attributable to the beneficial lease arrangements acquired in
respect of leasehold land and buildings. No fair value has been attributed to the work force or customer relationships acquired
as these were considered immaterial. Working capital assets and liabilities at date of transition remain with the vendors. The
negative goodwill arises as the vendors were unable to provide sufficient working capital to achieve the operations’ full potential
and did not have sufficient international experience to reach all potential markets.
The £11.8m benefit arising from the negative goodwill is presented within operating income within the income statement.
In 2011, Home Farms contributed £1.0m to the Group’s revenue and £0.5m loss to the Group’s profit before tax for the period
between the date of acquisition and the reporting date. 
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83
7. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
7(b) Acquisition of subsidiaries in the prior year (continued) 8. Discontinued operations 
2012
Support Services division
Following a review by the Board in December 2012, the Group decided not to continue to support operations of Lonrho Water
and Swissta Mozambique. Costs of discontinuing the operation were less than £0.1m. The comparatives have been re-presented
accordingly.
Year 15 months
ended 31 ended 31
December December
2012 2011
£m £m
CASH FLOWS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATION
Net cash used in operating activities (0.1) –
Net cash from financing activities – –
NET MOVEMENT IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (0.1) –
2011
Fly540 Uganda
Following a review by the Board in December 2011, the Group decided not to continue to support air freight operations of
Fly540 Uganda Ltd, which consequently ceased trading. Costs of discontinuing the operation in 2011 were less than £0.1m. 
15 months
ended 31
December
2011
£m
CASH FLOWS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATION
Net cash used in operating activities (1.7)
Net cash from financing activities 1.9
NET MOVEMENT IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 0.2
9. Staff numbers and costs
The aggregate remuneration comprised (including Directors):
Group Company
Year 15 months Year 15 months
ended 31 ended 31 ended 31 ended 31
December December December December
2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m
Wages and salaries 33.4 39.4 4.0 5.6
Compulsory social security contributions 1.3 1.8 0.4 0.5
Share based payments 2.3 0.7 2.3 0.7
Pension costs 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.2
37.3 42.1 7.0 7.0
84
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued The average number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
Group Company
Year 15 months Year 15 months
ended 31 ended 31 ended 31 ended 31
December December December December
2012 2011 2012 2011
Number Number Number Number
Infrastructure 265 234 – –
Agribusiness 2,388 1,634 – –
Transportation 288 521 – –
Support services 838 902 – –
Hotels 480 364 – –
Central 27 30 21 21
4,286 3,685 21 21
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS
Detailed disclosure of remuneration of Directors is given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
10. Net finance income
Year 15 months
ended 31 ended 31
December December
2012 2011
£m £m
Bank interest receivable 0.7 0.8
Foreign exchange gain 4.9 6.0
FINANCE INCOME 5.6 6.8
Interest on loans repayable within five years and overdrafts (10.6) (8.6)
Foreign exchange loss (3.7) (7.1)
Interest on finance leases (0.4) (0.5)
FINANCE EXPENSE (14.7) (16.2)
NET FINANCE EXPENSE (9.1) (9.4)
Included in interest payable on loans repayable within five years and overdrafts of £10.6m is an amount of £2.3m (2011: £nil)
relating to the premium payable at the maturity of the US$70m 7.0% Guaranteed Convertible Bonds due 2015 (refer to note 31).
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 85
9. Staff numbers and costs (continued) 11. Transfer of subsidiary to jointly controlled entity
On the 29 June 2012 Lonrho Plc transferred its Transportation division headed by Lonrho Aviation BVI to a jointly controlled
entity Rubicon Diversified Investments Plc (‘Rubicon’), renamed FastJet Plc (‘FastJet’) on the 6 August 2012, resulting in a 73.6%
equity interest in FastJet immediately post the transaction with a market value of £55.7m represented by 1,160,037,455 ordinary
shares in FastJet at 4.8p per share. Due to the terms of the articles of association, shareholder agreements in place and board
constitution the Directors do not consider that Lonrho has control of FastJet. The Directors consider that, due to the
composition of the board of Directors of FastJet, Lonrho controls this entity jointly with easyGroup and as such the Group's
interest in FastJet is consolidated as a jointly controlled entity. In accordance with IFRS3 (2008) the interest in FastJet was
recognised at its fair value at the date of transaction and the resulting gain recognised in the income statement. The assets and
liabilities transferred to FastJet and the gain at 29 June 2012 are set out in the table below:
29 June
2012
£m
ASSETS
Goodwill 0.1
Other intangible assets 3.4
Property, plant and equipment 30.7
Inventories 2.9
Trade & other receivables 11.7
TOTAL ASSETS 48.8
LIABILITIES
Loans and borrowings (1.1)
Deferred tax (0.2)
Obligations under finance leases (19.3)
Trade & other payables (15.2)
Bank overdraft (Net) (3.5)
TOTAL LIABILITIES (39.3)
NET ASSETS 9.5
Fair value of jointly controlled entity 55.7
Net assets of subsidiary contributed (9.5)
Non-controlling interests * (8.6)
Liabilities recognised on transaction and held in provisions (1.5)
Costs relating to transaction (2.1)
Cumulative foreign exchange translation differences recognised (0.5)
Gain on contribution of subsidiary to jointly controlled entity 33.5
* Non-controlling interest represents the accumulated share of results attributable to non-controlling interest of the Lonrho Aviation Group immediately prior to the
transaction.
86
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 12. Income tax expense
Year 15 months
ended 31 ended 31
December December
2012 2011
Recognised in the income statement £m £m
CURRENT TAX EXPENSE 
Current period 0.6 1.6
DEFERRED TAX
Credit for the period (0.9) (1.3)
TOTAL INCOME TAX (CREDIT)/EXPENSE IN THE INCOME STATEMENT (0.3) 0.3
Year 15 months
ended 31 ended 31
December December
2012 2011
Reconciliation of effective tax rate £m £m
(Loss)/profit before tax (6.3) 0.8
Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate (1.5) 0.2
Irrecoverable withholding taxes 0.3 0.2
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (2.7) (7.3)
Capital losses utilised in respect of gain on contribution of subsidiary to jointly controlled 
entity (8.2) –
Impairment of jointly controlled entity non taxable 1.9 –
Reversal of provision against carrying value of associate – 1.0
Losses for which deferred tax is unrecognised 8.5 10.5
Effect of tax losses utilised (2.3) (1.5)
Non taxable items 3.7 (2.8)
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE (0.3) 0.3
UK Corporation tax is calculated at a rate of 24.5% (2011: 26.8%) of the estimated assessable loss (2011: profit) for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Recognised in other comprehensive income and equity
There is no material taxation effect arising on transactions recorded in other comprehensive income and equity.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 87 13. Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted profit per share is based on the following data:
Year 15 months
ended 31 ended 31
December December
2012 2011
£m £m
(Loss)/profit for the purposes of basic earnings per share being net profit attributable to
equity holders of the parent (1.7) 6.0
(Loss)/profit for the purposes of diluted earnings per share (1.7) 6.0
Number of shares (millions)
2012 2011
No. No.
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 1,574.2 1,236.1
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
– Share options 1.8 20.1
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share* 1,576.0 1,256.2
* The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding. The weighted average number of ordinary shares
outstanding during the period was considered in light of the Convertible Bond (note 31). The potential ordinary shares associated with the bond issue are considered
anti-dilutive as their conversion to ordinary shares would increase earnings per share from continuing operations. The weighted average number of ordinary shares has
therefore not been adjusted in respect of the potential ordinary shares associated with the bond issue.
Earnings per share
Year 15 months
ended 31 ended 31
December December
2012 2011
(Loss)/earnings per share (0.11p) 0.49p
(Loss)/Diluted earnings per share (0.11p) 0.48p
88
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 89
14. Intangible assets
Development Customer Intellectual Contractual
Goodwill costs Franchises relationships Brands property rights Licences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
COST
Balance at 1 October 2010 16.1 – 1.7 3.4 1.0 0.1 – 0.2 22.5
Additions – 0.2 – – 0.4 – 4.5 – 5.1
Acquired through business 
combinations 2.5 – – 3.6 – – 11.8 – 17.9
Effect of movements in foreign 
exchange rates (0.2) – – (0.1) – – (0.9) – (1.2)
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 18.4 0.2 1.7 6.9 1.4 0.1 15.4 0.2 44.3
Balance at 1 January 2012 18.4 0.2 1.7 6.9 1.4 0.1 15.4 0.2 44.3
Additions – 0.2 – – – – – 0.2 0.4
Acquired through business 
combinations – – 1.2 – – – – – 1.2
Transfer of subsidiary to jointly 
controlled entity (0.1) – – – – (0.1) (4.4) (0.2) (4.8)
Effect of movements in foreign 
exchange rates (0.2) – – (0.1) – – (1.1) – (1.4)
Transfer to discontinued 
operations (0.6) – – – – – – – (0.6)
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2012 17.5 0.4 2.9 6.8 1.4 – 9.9 0.2 39.1
AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT
Balance at 1 October 2010 0.6 – 0.2 0.7 0.8 – – 0.2 2.5
Amortisation for the period – – 0.3 0.7 0.3 0.1 0.7 – 2.1
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 0.6 – 0.5 1.4 1.1 0.1 0.7 0.2 4.6
Balance at 1 January 2012 0.6 – 0.5 1.4 1.1 0.1 0.7 0.2 4.6
Amortisation for the year – – 0.4 0.7 0.1 – 1.0 – 2.2
Transfer of subsidiary to jointly 
controlled entity – – – – – (0.1) (1.0) (0.2) (1.3)
Effect of movements in foreign 
exchange rates – – – – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Transfer to discontinued 
operations (0.6) – – – – – – – (0.6)
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2012 – – 0.9 2.1 1.2 – 0.6 – 4.8
CARRYING AMOUNTS
At 1 October 2010 15.5 – 1.5 2.7 0.2 0.1 – – 20.0
At 31 December 2011 17.8 0.2 1.2 5.5 0.3 – 14.7 – 39.7
AT 31 DECEMBER 2012 17.5 0.4 2.0 4.7 0.2 – 9.3 0.2 34.3 Amortisation and impairment charge
The amortisation and impairment charge is recognised in the operating costs line of the income statement.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to
benefit from that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill had been allocated as follows:
2012 2011
Primary Reporting Segment CGU £m £m
AGRIBUSINESS Rollex (Pty) Limited 7.9 7.7
Trak Auto Lda 0.8 0.8
Oceanfresh Seafoods (Pty) Limited 0.5 0.5
Lonrho Logistics (Pty) Limited 1.5 1.9
10.7 10.9
INFRASTRUCTURE Luba Freeport Limited 3.5 3.4
KwikBuild Corporation Limited 2.7 2.8
6.2 6.2
TRANSPORTATION Five Forty Aviation Limited – 0.1
– 0.1
SUPPORT SERVICES Global Horizons Limited 0.6 0.6
0.6 0.6
TOTAL 17.5 17.8
At 31 December 2012 the Directors have reconsidered the economic lives attributed to these assets and consider they remain
appropriate. No cash generating unit is considered to have any individual significant amount of goodwill.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired
which include the current economic environment. The recoverable amounts are determined from value in use calculations. The
key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates, expected changes to selling
prices and direct costs during the periods considered.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money
and the risks specific to the units. The growth rates are based on management’s assessment of the markets in which the
businesses are operating and reflect known contracts and customer relationships combined with anticipated growth in markets
and market share. Industry growth forecasts are not always considered applicable as many of the businesses are operating in
non-established markets. Changes in the selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future
changes in the individual markets.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets included in the individual reporting
unit’s three year business plan which are approved by the Board. The Directors consider cashflow for a five year period as well a
terminal value in the sixth year in determining value in use. The forecasts used for these businesses are the three year plan
approved by the Board with years 4 and 5 based on year 3 performance escalated for growth rate determined for each
individual company considering historic and future compounded annual growth rates. The growth rates used for the year 4 and
5 forecast within Agribusiness are Rollex (Pty) Limited 4% (2011: 12%), Trak Auto Lda 10% (2011: 12%), Oceanfresh Seafoods (Pty)
Limited 5% (2011: 12%), Lonrho Logistics (Pty) Limited 6% (2011: 12%); Infrastructure, Luba Freeport Limited 8% (2011: 10%) and
KwikBuild Corporation Limited 16% (2011: 20%); and Support Services being Global Horizons Limited 6% (2011: 12%). The only
exceptions are for Luba Freeport Limited, reflecting the significant capital investments in the project and the length of the
remaining operating concession (16 years), the Directors have extended the 3 year forecast approved by the Board to reflect the
remaining life of the concession in determining value in use. For KwikBuild Corporation, reflecting the challenges faced in
delivering certain contracts, the directors have adjusted the 3 year forecast approved by the Board to reflect latest management
expectations. The directors are satisfied that, based on these revised forecasts, sufficient headroom exists for no impairment to
be required as at 31 December 2012. This will be revisited in future years when an impairment charge may be required if the
planned improvements to this business do not materialise. The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast cash flows within
Agribusiness are Rollex (Pty) Limited 13% (2011: 12%), Trak Auto Lda 15% (2011: 12%), Oceanfresh Seafoods (Pty) Limited 13%
(2011: 12%), Lonrho Logistics (Pty) Limited 13% (2011: 12%); Infrastructure, Luba Freeport Limited 13% (2011: 10%) and KwikBuild
Corporation Limited 15% (2011: 20%); and Support Services being Global Horizons Limited 15% (2011: 12%).
Management carried out a range of sensitivity analysis on all the assumptions used for each business. There is no single factor
impacting the sensitivity of the CGU analysis, other than the continued growth in the core markets as noted. The results of this
analysis confirmed that there was sufficient headroom in the carrying value of goodwill for these entities.
90
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Intangible assets (continued) Other than as noted above, the Directors do not consider that any reasonably possible scenario currently foreseen could result
in goodwill impairment.
Estimates and judgements
The Directors believe that the estimates and judgments used in preparing these financial statements would not have a material
impact on the carrying values of the intangible assets described above. The Directors’ do not consider there to be any indicators
of impairment on the other intangible assets.
15. Property, plant and equipment
Long Short 
leasehold leasehold 
land and land and Plant and Fixtures and
buildings buildings machinery fittings Aircraft Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
COST
Balance at 1 October 2010 40.9 63.6 12.1 6.0 5.5 128.1
Additions 1.2 2.8 8.0 1.7 29.7 43.4
Business combinations 10.6 2.0 0.9 0.7 – 14.2
Revaluations 6.6 0.1 – – – 6.7
Disposals (0.2) – (0.8) (0.1) (2.1) (3.2)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 1.9 1.0 (0.4) 1.3 1.0 4.8
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 61.0 69.5 19.8 9.6 34.1 194.0
Balance at 1 January 2012 61.0 69.5 19.8 9.6 34.1 194.0
Additions* 0.2 4.8 5.9 3.1 0.3 14.3
Revaluations 2.3– ––– 2.3
Disposals (0.1)(0.3) (1.1) (0.2) (3.3) (5.0)
Elimination of subsidiary to jointly controlled entity – – (1.2) (1.7) (30.6) (33.5)
Transfer between asset class – – 0.6 (0.6) – –
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (5.4) (3.3) (1.7) (1.0) (0.5) (11.9)
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2012 58.0 70.7 22.3 9.2 – 160.2
DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES
Balance at 1 October 2010 0.8 9.4 5.8 1.9 1.0 18.9
Depreciation charge for the period 0.2 4.2 3.1 1.6 0.8 9.9
Eliminated on revaluation (0.4) (0.1) – – – (0.5)
Disposals – – (0.7) – (0.3) (1.0)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 0.1 0.3 (0.3) 0.4 – 0.5
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 0.7 13.8 7.9 3.9 1.5 27.8
Balance at 1 January 2012 0.7 13.8 7.9 3.9 1.5 27.8
Depreciation charge for the year 0.3 3.7 3.2 1.5 0.9 9.6
Eliminated on revaluation (0.2) – – – – (0.2)
Disposals (0.1)(0.2) (0.7) (0.1)(0.9)(2.0)
Elimination of subsidiary to jointly controlled entity – – (0.4) (0.9) (1.5) (2.8)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – (0.8) (1.2) (0.2) – (2.2)
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2012 0.7 16.5 8.8 4.2 – 30.2
CARRYING AMOUNTS
At 1 October 2010 40.1 54.2 6.3 4.1 4.5 109.2
At 31 December 2011 60.3 55.7 11.9 5.7 32.6 166.2
At 31 December 2012 57.3 54.2 13.5 5.0 – 130.0
* Additions of £14.3m include £1.7m for non cash items. 
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 91
14. Intangible assets (continued) In the current period, the Company had fixed assets brought forward with a net book value of £0.4m (2011: £0.4m). During the
period, the Company acquired fixed assets for £0.1m (2011: £0.1m). The depreciation charge for the period was £0.2m (2011:
£0.1m). The net book value as at 31 December 2012 was £0.3m (2011: £0.4m). These fixed assets relate to fixtures and fittings.
Leased plant and machinery and aircraft
At 31 December 2012, the net carrying amount of leased assets was £4.0m (2011: £25.1m). See note 25 for details of the lease
obligations.
Long leasehold land and buildings
In 2010 £25.5m of long leasehold land and buildings were recognised in relation to the valuation of the land assigned under the
concession agreement from GEPetrol, following the completion of Phase 1 development at Luba Freeport and capitalisation of
Lonrho loans. The value had not previously been recognised as assignment and availability of the land was effectively
established following Phase 1 development completion. Depreciation has not yet commenced on this asset as it has yet to be
put into service. 
Long leasehold land and buildings relating to Hotel Cardoso SARL were revalued in December 2012 by SC Property Valuation
Services CC, independent valuers, on the basis of the profit method of valuation. The valuations conform to International
Valuation Standards and were based on historical feasabilities and comparative market information reflecting the current
demand for hotels in the relevant cities. A revaluation gain of £2.5m has arisen on Hotel Cardoso.
On 31 December 2012, had revalued long leasehold land and buildings been carried at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation, their carrying amount would be approximately £0.6m (2011: £0.8m). The revaluation surplus is disclosed in
note 24. The revaluation surplus arises in a subsidiary and cannot be distributed to the parent due its legal restrictions in the
country of incorporation.
Assets in the course of construction
Included within short leasehold land and buildings are assets in the course of construction totalling £2.6m (2011: £1.6m) which
are not depreciated until they are brought into use. Assets of £nil (2011: £nil) were brought into use in the period.
Capital commitments
Details of capital commitments in relation to property, plant and equipment are disclosed in note 33.
Borrowing costs
The amount of borrowing costs in respect of interest capitalised during the year was £nil (2011: £nil) and has been included
within long leasehold land and buildings.
16. Biological assets
Stone fruit orchards Blueberries Livestock Total
£m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2012 32.8 0.9 0.1 33.8
Transfer to inventory (0.2) – – (0.2)
Due to physical changes – 2.6 – 2.6
Changes in assumption: reduction in farming costs 1.4 – – 1.4
Changes in assumption: reduction in WACC 5.2 0.2 – 5.4
Changes in assumption: reduction in stone fruit yields (4.4) – – (4.4)
Discount unwinding 3.9 0.3 – 4.2
Foreign exchange movements (2.3) (0.1) – (2.4)
31 December 2012 36.4 3.9 0.1 40.4
The Group has a 200 hectare fruit orchard that grows a range of stone fruits, primarily peaches (188 hectares), and blueberry
bushes (12 hectares) which are part of a longer term farming operation. The stone fruit orchard was planted in 3 Phases
(Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3) over the period 2009 to 2011. The stone fruit trees take an average of 5 years to become fully
mature to give maximum yields and have on average 15 years of minimum productive life cycle thereafter. The blueberry bushes
plantation was also planted in 3 Phases (Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3) over the period 2010 to 2012. The blueberry bushes take
an average of 3 years to become fully mature to give maximum yields and have on average 10 to 12 years of minimum
productive life cycle thereafter. In the initial one to two years of life, the fair value of the plantation cycle is not considered
material due to the risks attached to the startup operations.
Under IAS 41, Biological Assets are required to be accounted for at fair value less costs to sell. Fair value less cost to sell is
determined by reference to the net present value of the biological asset at the reporting date. The calculation of the stone fruit
92
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
15. Property, plant and equipment (continued) and blueberries is based upon the expected life of the trees and bushes and the anticipated yield of each tree and bush per year
of life. These yields are multiplied by the anticipated selling price of each variety of stone fruit and blueberry based on the
current market price. Market price can be volatile depending on the date of harvest which can affect the quality of the product.
Management has sought to use prices that are considered conservative with regards to long term market trends.
Associated farming costs and cost of sales of the farm are then deducted from the forecast income to give a net income for
each of the years of production of the peaches and blueberries. The net income is discounted at 12.70% (2011: 14.86%) being
the group weighted average cost of capital of 8.7% (2011: 10.86%) plus 4% as a farming industry risk factor. The movement in fair
value arising on foreign exchange is taken to reserves (£2.4m), the transfer to inventory is taken to the balance sheet (£0.2m) and
the remaining net movement is taken to the income statement (£9.2m).
The change in discount rate to 12.70% (2011: 14.86%) has resulted in a fair value increase of £5.4m (stone fruit £5.2m, blueberries
£0.2m).
As the biological asset matures the discount rate unwinds year on year to give a movement in the fair value. Both fair value gains
and losses are taken to the income statement for the relevant year and disclosed as other operating income or other operating
costs as required by IAS 41. The unwinding of the discount rate has led to a fair value gain of £4.2m (stone fruit £3.9m,
blueberries £0.3m).
The base currency for the fair value calculations is the South African Rand as the market price for peaches and blueberries is
determined in that currency and the biological asset is held in a Rand functional currency entity. Each year after initial
recognition there will be a foreign exchange movement on the opening fair value. The exchange rate used on 31 December
2012 is 13.6859 (Rand to the Pound) (2011: 12.5437). This has resulted in a negative movement on opening fair value of £2.4m
arising on foreign exchange (stone fruit £2.3m, blueberries £0.1m).
At the point of harvest, the harvested fruits will be transferred to inventory and accounted for under IAS 2 – Inventory. In the
current period the stone fruit harvest amounted to £0.2m (2011: £0.1m).
The Group has used a third party to assist in its assessment of future yields for the biological assets.
In 2012, the life cycle for Phases 1, 2 and 3 progressed to reach a point where Phase 1 (48 hectares) is due to yield in full in 2013,
Phase 2 (92 hectares) is due to yield at approximately 67% in 2013 and Phase 3 (48 hectares) is due to yield at approximately
30% in 2013. Long term yield forecasts were revised down in the current year by 11%. This resulted in a net fair value loss of
£4.4m.
In 2012, a phase 2 and phase 3 planting program of blueberry bushes has been completed. The value of these bushes
recognised at 31 December 2012 is £2.6m (Phase 1 £0.2m, Phase 2 and 3 £2.4m).
As the orchard matures the associated costs of farming also become more stable and combined with savings generated from
improved efficiencies of scale and better use of technology this has resulted in a further increase in fair value of the total
orchard of £1.4m for the period. The orchard is part of a larger farming operation incorporating the growing of cash crops which
have further reduced the farming costs directly associated to the stone fruit orchard.
Over the life of the orchard, the fair value will be affected each year by the unwinding of the discount factors and this figure is
an increase in value of £4.2m for the current period (2011: £0.5m).
Sensitivities over critical assumptions are included here: A 1% change in discount rate would affect the value by £2.7m; a 10%
change in harvested yields would alter the valuation by £3.8m; and a 10% change in market prices would impact the valuation by
£4.9m.
The Directors note that there is significant estimation and judgment in the valuation of the biological assets. There is also
significant operational risk associated with the orchard including flooding, frost impact and general loss of plantation and
harvest.
At 31 December 2012 stone fruit trees comprised approximately 177,300 peach trees and 31,800 blueberry bushes (2011:
181,000 peach trees and 12,700 blueberry bushes) which range from newly established trees to plantations that are 3 years old
and are producing fruit for current harvest.
At 31 December 2012 livestock comprised 153 cattle, of which nil (2011: nil) are less than one year old and considered to be
immature assets. During the year the Group did not sell any cattle.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 93
16. Biological assets (continued) 17. Investments in subsidiaries
The principal investment by the Company is in respect of Lonrho Africa (Holdings) Limited is stated at cost. This is subject to
impairment testing.
A list of principal subsidiaries is set out in note 36.
18. Investments in associates
Group Company
2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012/1 October 2010 6.9 10.3 5.9 7.7
Additions to associate – 2.5 – 1.2
Share of (loss) after taxation – associates (2.6) (1.6) – –
Provisions in the year/period (2.0) (4.3) (4.6) (3.0)
Disposals (2.3) – (1.3) –
AT 31 DECEMBER – 6.9 – 5.9
Disposal of associates
During the year, the Company disposed of its interest in Cambria Africa Plc (formally LonZim Plc). In addition the Group
disposed of its interest in Lucapo Diamond Company Limited (formally Lonrho Mining Limited). The share of results of associates
on the income statement includes the trading results for the period when the Group had significant influence, as well as the
profit/loss on disposal.
Cambria Lucapo
Africa Plc Diamond Co Total
£m £m £m
Carrying value at 1 January 2012 5.9 1.0 6.9
Share of losses recognised in year (4.6) – (4.6)
Net book value at date of disposal 1.3 1.0 2.3
Sale proceeds 1.1 1.4 2.5
(Loss)/gain on disposal (0.2) 0.4 0.2
The Group had the following investments in associates at the 2011 reporting date. The Group has no interest in associates at
31 December 2012.
Ownership of
Country ordinary share capital
2012 2011
Associates
Cambria Africa Plc (formally LonZim Plc) Isle of Man 0% 22.92%
Lucapo Diamond Company Limited (formally Lonrho Mining Ltd) Australia 0% 13.96%
19. Investments in jointly controlled entity and other Investments
Investments in jointly controlled entity
2012 2011
£m £m
At 1 January 2012/1 October 2010 – –
Transfer from subsidiary (note 11) 55.7 –
Share of loss for the period (10.6) –
Impairment of investment in jointly controlled entity (7.7) –
AT 31 DECEMBER 37.4 –
The investment in jointly controlled entity represents the Group’s interest in FastJet Plc.
FastJet Plc
The market value of the Group's investment in FastJet Plc at 31 December 2012 was £44.4m (31 December 2011: £nil) with a
book value of £37.4m (31 December 2011: £nil). At 27 March 2013, the market value of the Group's investment in FastJet was
94
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued £28.4m. FastJet has not released its audited results for the period to 31 December 2012 at the date of this report and
accordingly the Directors have included an estimate of the Group’s share of the results of FastJet for the period from 29 June
2012 to 31 December 2012. This estimate has been derived from management accounts of FastJet updated to include an
overlay for appropriate IFRS adjustments. This process includes the application of judgements and assumptions but the directors
consider the amounts disclosed to be materially accurate. Whilst there were no individually significant estimates used in this
process it is possible that the reported result of FastJet will differ from those assumed. 
The carrying amount of jointly controlled entities are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any
objective evidence that it is impaired and if any such indication exists, an impairment charge is recorded in the income
statement. Due to current market conditions experienced by FastJet, an impairment review has been carried out which resulted
in an impairment charge being recorded in the income statement of £7.7m.
Summary of financial information on jointly controlled entity
Revenues Loss
for the for the
Assets Liabilities Equity period period
£m £m £m £m £m
2012
FastJet Plc 100.8 (50.9) 49.9 21.7 (17.0)
Other Investments
2012 2011
£m £m
At 1 January 2012/1 October 2010 1.7 0.6
Additions – 0.1
Fair value gain – 1.4
Impairment charge – (0.4)
Disposals (1.3) –
Elimination of subsidiary to jointly controlled entity (0.3) –
AT 31 DECEMBER 0.1 1.7
During the year the Group disposed of its interest in SouthWest Energy. The impact of this is shown below:
SouthWest
Energy
2012
£m
Carrying value at 1 January 2012 1.3
Sale proceeds 1.0
Loss on disposal (0.3)
20. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Assets Liabilities
2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012/1 October 2010 1.8 0.7 4.1 3.0
Origination of temporary timing differences 1.4 1.3 – –
Reversal of temporary timing differences (1.2) – (0.7) –
On acquisition of subsidiary – – 0.3 0.8
Disposals – – (0.1) –
Elimination of subsidiary to jointly controlled entity – – (0.2) –
Exchange differences – (0.2) (0.1) 0.3
AT 31 DECEMBER 2.0 1.8 3.3 4.1
The deferred tax liability at 1 January 2012 and 1 October 2010 related to the revaluation of property, plant and equipment and
deferred tax liabilities recognised on acquired intangibles.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 95
19. Investments in jointly controlled entity and other Investments (continued) There have been no deferred tax assets and liabilities off-set in the current or preceding period.
The deferred tax asset relates to previous trading losses in certain Group companies. The asset will be recoverable in future
periods, which is supported by the future cashflows of the relevant businesses. There are no expiry dates on the carry forward of
losses.
21. Inventories
2012 2011
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 2.4 3.7
Finished goods 20.7 16.4
23.1 20.1
22. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m
Amounts receivable from the sale of goods and services 27.3 28.3 – –
Amounts due from associates – 0.1 – –
Other receivables 11.2 12.7 0.6 0.1
Pre-payments and accrued income 5.7 7.7 0.9 0.8
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – – 146.0 127.3
44.2 48.8 147.5 128.2
The average credit period taken on sales of goods and services is 50 days (2011: 56 days). No interest is charged on receivables.
The Directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other receivables for the Group and Company approximates to their
fair value.
2012 2011
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts £m £m
At 1 January 2012/1 October 2010 1.0 0.9
Increase in allowance recognised in the income statement 0.5 0.5
Utilised (0.2) (0.4)
Elimination of subsidiary to jointly controlled entity (0.1) –
AT 31 DECEMBER 1.2 1.0
Refer to note 31 for further information on credit risk management.
23. Cash at bank
2012 2011
£m £m
Bank balances 13.8 9.5
Bank overdrafts (5.9) (12.2)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS IN THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 7.9 (2.7)
The Company had a bank overdraft of £1.0m at 31 December 2012 (2011: bank overdraft of £0.7m).
Included in Cash at bank of £17.0m (2011 £12.7m) as presented in the Statement of financial position is £3.2m (2011: £3.2m)
subject to restrictions on use that means it is not freely available and accordingly does not represent cash and cash equivalents.
96
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Deferred tax assets and liabilities (continued) Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 97
24. Capital and reserves
Group reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share Non-
Share Share Translation option Revaluation Retained Other controlling Total
capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings reserves Total interest equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2010 11.7 138.0 (8.7) 4.7 3.3 (36.1) (5.5) 107.4 20.3 127.7
Share capital issued 1.2 – – – – – 17.7 18.9 – 18.9
Share based payment charge – – – 0.7 – – – 0.7 – 0.7
Share options exercised 0.1 0.6 – – – – – 0.7 – 0.7
Costs associated with share 
issues –(0.4)–––––(0.4)–(0.4)
Non-controlling interest 
dividends – – – ––––– (0.2) (0.2)
Profit/(loss) for the period – – – – – 6.0 – 6.0 (5.5) 0.5
Subsidiaries acquired – – – ––––– 2.2 2.2
Subsidiaries disposed – – – ––––– (0.2) (0.2)
Transfer between accounts – – – – (0.1) 0.1––––
Revaluation of property, 
plant & equipment – – – – 4.2 – – 4.2 3.0 7.2
Non-controlling interest put 
option – – – – – – (2.3) (2.3) – (2.3)
Capital element of 
Convertible Bond – – – – – – 1.1 1.1 – 1.1
Elimination of non-
controlling interest – – – – – (0.6) – (0.6) 0.6 –
Foreign exchange 
translation – – (1.7) – 1.7 (0.5) – (0.5) 0.3 (0.2)
AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 13.0 138.2 (10.4) 5.4 9.1 (31.1) 11.0 135.2 20.5 155.7
At 1 January 2012 13.0 138.2 (10.4) 5.4 9.1 (31.1) 11.0 135.2 20.5 155.7
Share capital issued* 2.7 – – – – – 20.4 23.1 – 23.1
Share based payment charge 0.1 0.8 – 1.4 – – – 2.3 – 2.3
Provision for warrants – – – 1.0 – – – 1.0 – 1.0
Share options exercised 0.2 0.9 – – – – – 1.1 – 1.1
Shares issued in relation to 
earn-out agreement – 0.4––––– 0.4– 0.4
Non-controlling interest 
dividends – – – ––––– (0.2) (0.2)
Loss for the year – – – – – (1.7) – (1.7) (4.3) (6.0)
Elimination of subsidiary to 
jointly controlled entity _ _ 0.5 _ _ _ _ 0.5 8.6 9.1
Revaluation of property, 
plant & equipment – – – – 1.5 – – 1.5 1.0 2.5
Foreign exchange 
translation – – (10.8) – (1.6) (0.5) – (12.9) (1.9) (14.8)
AT DECEMBER 2012 16.0 140.3 (20.7) 7.8 9.0 (33.3) 31.4 150.5 23.7 174.2
* Share capital issued proceeds of £24.1m less non cash costs of £1.0m.  Share capital and share premium
Ordinary shares
In millions of 1p shares 2012 2011
On issue at 1 January 2012/1 October 2010 1,298.6 1,171.8
Issued for cash 269.5 118.0
Shares issued to former director 8.2 –
Shares issued in relation to earn-out agreement 4.3 –
Exercise of share options 16.7 8.8
ON ISSUE AT 31 DECEMBER – FULLY PAID 1,597.3 1,298.6
On 3 January 2012, 269.5m new ordinary shares of 1p each were issued by a placing of shares at 10.0p per share. The placing
structure utilised attracted merger relief under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, resulting in a net credit to a merger
reserve of £204.4m. Subsequent internal transactions required to complete the placing structure have resulted in this becoming
distributable.
On 20 May 2011, 118.0m new ordinary shares of 1p each were issued by a placing of shares at 16.5p per share. The placing
structure utilised attracted merger relief under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, resulting in a net credit to a merger
reserve of £17.7m. Subsequent internal transactions required to complete the placing structure have resulted in this becoming
distributable.
The costs of share issues of £nil have been deducted from the share premium account (2011: £0.4 m).
On 13 September 2012, 8.2m ordinary shares of 1p were issued to a former director, David Lenigas (see Remuneration Report).
The share price at that date was 10.3p. The cost of this award has been recognised in the income statement and then
transferred to share capital and share premium.
On 3 November 2012, 4.3m ordinary shares of 1p were issued in relation to the earn-out agreement with Trak Auto LDA. The
share price at that date was 11.2p.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per
share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
Company reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves
Share Share Share Other Retained
capital premium option reserve earnings Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2010 11.7 138.0 4.7 – (31.4) 123.0
Share capital issued 1.2 – – 17.7 – 18.9
Share options issued – – 0.7 – – 0.7
Share options exercised 0.1 0.6 – – – 0.7
Costs associated with share issues – (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Loss for the period – – – – (17.3) (17.3)
AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 13.0 138.2 5.4 17.7 (48.7) 125.6
At 1 January 2012 13.0 138.2 5.4 17.7 (48.7) 125.6
Share capital issued 2.7 – – 20.4 – 23.1
Share based payment charge 0.1 0.8 1.4 – – 2.3
Provision for warrants – – 1.0 – – 1.0
Share options exercised 0.2 0.9 – – – 1.1
Shares issued in relation to earn out agreement – 0.4 – – – 0.4
Loss for the year – – – – (21.6) (21.6)
AT 31 DECEMBER 2012 16.0 140.3 7.8 38.1 (70.3) 131.9
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of
foreign operations since the conversion to Adopted IFRS on 1 October 2006.
98
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
24. Capital and reserves (continued) Revaluation reserve
The revaluation reserve relates to property, plant and equipment (see note 15). 
Share based payment reserve
The share based payment reserve comprises the charges arising from the calculation of the share based payments posted to the
income statement (see note 27).
25. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more
information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 31.
2012 2011
£m £m
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Finance lease liabilities 1.3 18.6
Bank loans 25.2 27.9
Debt related derivative financial instruments 0.1 –
Convertible bond 43.0 44.4
Shareholder loans 3.2 3.6
Other loans 4.8 0.8
77.6 95.3
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Finance lease liabilities 1.2 4.9
Bank loans 22.0 2.9
Shareholder loans 0.2 –
Other loans 0.7 0.1
Bank overdrafts 5.9 12.2
30.0 20.1
At the reporting date the Company had interest bearing loans of £nil (2011: £nil).
Finance leases
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
2012 2011
Future Present value Future Present value
minimum of minimum minimum of minimum
lease lease lease lease
payments Interest payments payments Interest payments
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year 1.3 (0.1) 1.2 6.4 (1.5) 4.9
Between one and five years 1.4 (0.1) 1.3 13.6 (4.8) 8.8
More than 5 years ––– 11.6 (1.8) 9.8
2.7 (0.2) 2.5 31.6 (8.1) 23.5
Interest is payable on the leases within a range of 7.8% to 25% per annum. Under the terms of the lease agreements, no
contingent rents are payable.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 99
24. Capital and reserves (continued) Bank overdrafts
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and are unsecured. The currency profile is as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
South African Rand 3.8 5.7
Central African Franc – 0.3
US Dollar 0.1 5.5
Sterling 1.0 0.7
Mozambique Metical 0.6 –
Tanzanian Shilling 0.2 –
Botswana Pula 0.2 –
5.9 12.2
The weighted average interest rates paid were 8.9% (2011: 10%).
The Company overdraft of £1.0m (2011: £0.7m) was denominated in sterling.
26. Shareholder loans
2012 2011
£m £m
Shareholder loans 3.4 3.6
3.4 3.6
100
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
25. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (continued) 27. Share options
At 31 December 2012 there were 97,250,000 (31 December 2011: 119,510,000) share options in issue with an average exercise
price of 16.28p (2011: 15.73p). No share options were granted or re-priced in the current period.
The following share options were outstanding as at 31 December 2012:
Market price per
Number of share at 
share options Exercise Period during date of
Name Date granted granted Price which exercisable modification
Emma Priestley 13.01.2009 1,000,000 6.5p 13.01.2009–12.01.2014 5.8p
Geoffrey White 13.01.2009 2,000,000 6.5p 13.01.2009–12.01.2014 5.8p
David Armstrong 13.01.2009 1,000,000 6.5p 13.01.2009–12.01.2014 5.8p
Other employees and consultants 13.01.2009 1,750,000 6.5p 13.01.2009–12.01.2014 5.8p
David Lenigas 01.04.2010 20,000,000 13.75p 01.04.2010–31.03.2015 12.5p
Geoffrey White 01.04.2010 20,000,000 13.75p 01.04.2010–31.03.2015 12.5p
David Armstrong 01.04.2010 6,500,000 13.75p 01.04.2010–31.03.2015 12.5p
Emma Priestley 01.04.2010 1,000,000 13.75p 01.04.2010–31.03.2015 12.5p
Other employees and consultants 01.04.2010 5,500,000 13.75p 01.04.2010–31.03.2015 12.5p
David Lenigas 04.08.2011 3,333,333 18.4p 04.08.2012–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Lenigas 04.08.2011 3,333,333 22p 04.08.2013–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Lenigas 04.08.2011 3,333,334 25p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Geoffrey White 04.08.2011 3,333,333 18.4p 04.08.2012–03.08.2016 16.75p
Geoffrey White 04.08.2011 3,333,333 22p 04.08.2013–03.08.2016 16.75p
Geoffrey White 04.08.2011 3,333,334 25p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Armstrong 04.08.2011 2,000,000 18.4p 04.08.2012–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Armstrong 04.08.2011 2,000,000 22p 04.08.2013–03.08.2016 16.75p
David Armstrong 04.08.2011 2,000,000 25p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Other employees and consultants 04.08.2011 2,000,000 18.4p 04.08.2012–03.08.2016 16.75p
Other employees and consultants 04.08.2011 2,000,000 22p 04.08.2013–03.08.2016 16.75p
Other employees and consultants 04.08.2011 2,000,000 25p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Other employees and consultants 04.08.2011 6,500,000 18.4p 04.08.2014–03.08.2016 16.75p
Total options in issue 97,250,000
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 101 The following share options were exercised during the period:
Number of Share price Pre tax gain at 
share options at date of date of exercise
Name Date granted exercised exercise Exercise price Date of exercise £
Emma Priestley 30.04.2007 1,250,000 8.36p 6.5p 21.06.2012 23,250
Jean Ellis 20.07.2007 350,000 8.36p 6.5p 21.06.2012 6,510
Jean Ellis 13.01.2009 500,000 8.36p 6.5p 21.06.2012 9,300
David Lenigas (former director) 13.01.2009 2,500,000 9.98p 6.5p 11.10.2012 87,000
David Lenigas (former director) 30.04.2007 3,750,000 10.25p 6.5p 21.09.2012 140,625
David Lenigas (former director) 20.07.2007 1,615,000 10.25p 6.5p 21.09.2012 60,563
Emma Priestley 20.07.2007 1,065,000 9.16p 6.5p 25.09.2012 28,329
Geoffrey White 30.04.2007 2,500,000 8.85p 6.5p 26.09.2012 58,750
Geoffrey White 20.07.2007 1,065,000 8.85p 6.5p 26.09.2012 25,028
Other employees and consultants 30.04.2007 875,000 11.25p 6.5p 24.04.2012 41,563
Other employees and consultants 30.04.2007 850,000 8.36p 6.5p 21.06.2012 15,810
Other employees and consultants 20.07.2007 350,000 8.36p 6.5p 21.06.2012 6,510
16,670,000
The number of shares exercised in the table above is 5,590,000 less than the number of share options granted at the respective
grant date due to share options lapsed and forfeited. £1.1m was received from the exercise of the above share options.
In accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’ share options granted or re-priced during the year have been measured at
fair value at the date of grant or re-pricing and, in the case of re-priced options, the increase in the fair value compared with the
value of the original award at that date has been spread over the remaining vesting period. The fair value of the options granted
has been estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Date of Grant
04.08.2011 04.08.2011 04.08.2011
Share price 16.75p 16.75p 16.75p
Exercise price 18.4p 22.0p 25.0p
Expected volatility 48.00% 56.00% 85.00%
Expected life 5 years 5 years 5 years
Expected dividends 000
Risk-free interest rate 1.46% 1.46% 1.46%
Volatility has been calculated by reference to the movement of the Company’s share price over the previous three and a half
years.
All share options issued prior to 1 October 2010, vested at the date of grant and the basis of settlement is in shares of the
Company.
Long Term Incentive Plan:
On 13 September 2012, 10,491,100 potential ordinary shares were awarded to two directors in accordance with a long term
incentive plan.
The awards will be subject to a performance target based on the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR). An initial
comparator index of 27 companies has been chosen from the FTSE Small Cap Support Services Index, the FTSE Food Producers
Index and the FTSE 350 Food Processors Index. 25% of the shares subject to an award would vest if Lonrho’s TSR over the
period from date of grant to vesting date was in the top half of the relative comparator index and 100% of the shares would vest
if it was in the top quartile of the same index.
The Remuneration Committee may amend, vary or waive a performance target if events have occurred which cause the
Remuneration Committee to consider that it has become unfair or impractical.
102
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
27. Share options (continued) Where an award vests before the intended vesting date in circumstances where the performance target cannot be measured in
the manner originally intended, the Remuneration Committee will determine the extent to which the award vests by reference
to the Company’s performance over the period from the date the award was granted to the date of vesting, having such regard
to the performance target as it considers appropriate.
The income statement charge in 2012 for potential shares awarded under the long term incentive plan was not significant (less
than £0.1m).
Refer to remuneration report for further details.
28. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m
Trade payables 22.6 30.0 0.6 0.8
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – – 45.2 38.0
Indirect tax and social security liabilities 0.8 0.5 0.1 0.1
Deferred income 4.2 1.4 – –
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 13.9 23.9 0.6 0.8
41.5 55.8 46.5 39.7
Group Company
2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m
Analysed as:
Current liabilities 37.2 39.7 1.3 1.7
Non-current liabilities 4.3 16.1 45.1 38.0
41.5 55.8 46.4 39.7
Trade payables principally comprise outstanding amounts for trade purchases and on-going costs. The average credit period
taken for trade purchases is 59 days (2011: 85 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other
payables approximates to their fair value.
29. Provisions
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had provisions of £1.5m being liabilities recognised as part of the FastJet Plc transaction.
The Board expects this to be utilised within 1-5 years (Note 11).
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 103
27. Share options (continued) 30. Notes to the statements of cash flows
Group Company
2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9.6 9.9 0.2 0.2
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.2 2.1 – –
Impairment of investment – – 4.6 –
Impairment of jointly controlled entity 7.7 – – –
Loss on other investments 0.3 (1.0) 0.2 –
Contribution of subsidiary to jointly controlled entity (33.5) – – –
Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (1.2) 1.1 (1.7) 1.0
Share based payment charge 2.3 0.7 2.3 0.7
Finance income (0.7) (0.8) – (0.1)
Finance expense 11.0 9.1 8.4 –
Profit on disposal of subsidiary – (0.5) – –
Share of results of associates 4.4 5.9 – 3.0
Share of loss of jointly controlled entity 10.6 – – –
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.4 – – –
Gain arising on fair valuation of biological assets (9.2) (27.4) – –
Gain on acquisitions – (15.8) – –
Revenue in respect of barter transactions (1.7) – – –
Income tax (credit)/expense (0.3) 0.3 – 0.1
ADJUSTMENTS TO LOSS/PROFIT FOR THE YEAR/PERIOD 1.9 (16.4) 14.0 4.9
31. Financial instruments
The Company has no financial assets apart from the Trade and other receivables and amounts owed by Group undertakings
included within note 22. The Company applies a similar approach to credit risk management as the Group. The Directors believe
that there are no significant credit risks to the Company at the reporting date.
Exposure to credit, liquidity, interest rate, market and foreign currency risks arise in the normal course of the Group’s business.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and
processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital which the Directors consider to be the
components of Total Equity excluding minority interests. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these
consolidated financial statements. The Board of Directors have overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the
Group’s risk management framework.
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with credit worthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where
appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. No collateral is held at the reporting date. The
Group’s exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions
concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas. Ongoing
credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable. The Group does not have any significant credit
risk exposure to any single counterparty or any Group of counterparties having similar characteristics. The credit risk on liquid
funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
104
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 105
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, net of any allowances for losses, represents the
Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of the value of any collateral obtained. At the reporting date,
there were no significant credit risks. The maximum exposure to credit risk on customers at the reporting date was £38.5m
being the total of the carrying amount of trade and other receivables as shown in the table below:
2012 2011
£m £m
Cash at bank 17.0 12.7
Trade receivables 27.3 28.3
Other receivables 11.2 12.8
55.5 53.8
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
2012 2011
£m £m
Not due 12.7 15.6
Past due 0-30 days 6.8 5.3
Past due 31-60 days 2.8 2.2
More than 60 days past due 5.0 5.2
27.3 28.3
The movement on the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 22. The provision at the reporting date of £1.2m (2011:
£1.0m) relates to and is included within trade receivables more than 60 days past due. Other amounts past due are considered
collectible based on prior experience.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables by geographic region was:
2012 2011
£m £m
West Africa 2.3 1.9
Southern Africa 21.2 21.3
East Africa 0.5 4.4
Europe 1.0 0.7
North America 0.6 –
Rest of the World 1.7 –
27.3 28.3
Liquidity risk management
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk
management framework for the management of the Group’s and Company’s short, medium and long term funding and liquidity
management requirements. The Group and Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities
and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of
financial assets and liabilities.
31. Financial instruments (continued) The Group had undrawn facilities in respect of uncommitted bank overdraft of £7.3m at 31 December 2012 (2011: £26.1m).
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding the effect
of netting agreements:
2012
Carrying Contractual 1 year 1 to 2 to 5 years
amount cash flows or less <2 years <5 years and over
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts 5.9 5.9 5.9 – – –
Trade and other payables 41.5 41.5 37.2 3.2 1.1 –
Bank loans 47.2 52.7 24.6 10.6 15.5 2.0
Debt-related derivative financial instruments 0.10.1 –0.1 – –
Finance leases 2.5 2.7 1.3 0.8 0.6 –
Shareholder loans 3.4 5.4 0.6 0.2 0.6 4.0
Convertible bond 43.0 55.0 3.0 3.0 49.0 –
Other loans 5.5 8.3 1.0 2.9 0.8 3.6
149.1 171.6 73.6 20.8 67.6 9.6
2011
Carrying Contractual 1 year 1 to 2 to 5 years
amount cash flows or less <2 years <5 years and over
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts 12.2 12.2 12.2 – – –
Trade and other payables 55.8 55.8 39.6 13.7 2.5 –
Bank loans 30.8 37.2 6.3 11.0 19.9 –
Finance leases 23.5 31.6 6.4 5.0 8.6 11.6
Shareholder loans 3.6 3.8 0.1 0.3 0.2 3.2
Convertible Bond 44.4 57.1 3.2 3.2 50.7 –
Other loans 0.9 0.9 0.1 0.8 – –
171.2 198.6 67.9 34.0 81.9 14.8
Convertible Bond
On 15 October 2010, LAH Jersey Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, completed the offering of
US$70m 7.0% Guaranteed Convertible Bonds due 2015, convertible into preference shares of LAH Jersey Limited at the holder’s
option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by, Lonrho Plc.
The Bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of Lonrho Plc at an exchange price of 15.59p and at fixed exchange rate at any
time from 1 November 2010 to 8 October 2015, or, if the bonds shall have been called for redemption by LAH Jersey Limited
before 15 October 2015, the close of business on the day which is seven days before the date fixed for redemption. Each
US$10,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a US$10,000 paid-up value of preference shares of
LAH Jersey Limited. Upon a change of control the Bonds may be redeemed at the holder’s option at their early redemption
amount (together with accrued interest), to the date fixed for redemption. The Group is therefore exposed to market risk in
relation to the convertible bond.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the unsecured Convertible Bonds will be redeemed on 15 October 2015 at a
redemption price equivalent to 106.0031% of their principal amount.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the Convertible Bonds have been split between the debt component and an
embedded derivative component. This embedded derivative component represents the fair value of the equity conversion call
option held by the bondholders.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 8.2%. This includes a coupon interest rate
of 7.0% per annum. The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 7.0% convertible US Dollar Bonds 2015
at 31 December 2012 to be approximately £38.7m. This fair value has been determined by reference to the market price at
31 December 2012.
106
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Financial instruments (continued) In respect of income-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective
interest rates at the reporting date and the periods in which they re-price.
2012
Effective
interest 1 year 1-2 2-5 5 years
rate Total or less years years and over
%£m£m£m£m£m
Cash at bank 0.2% 17.0 17.0 – – –
Loans 7.3% (56.1) (23.5) (2.7) (24.5) (5.4)
Finance lease liabilities 10.3% (2.5) (2.5) – – –
Convertible Bond 8.2% (43.0) – – (43.0) –
Bank overdrafts 8.9% (5.9) (5.9) – – –
(90.5) (14.9) (2.7) (67.5) (5.4)
2011
Effective
interest 1 year 1-2 2-5 5 years
rate Total or less years years and over
%£m£m£m£m£m
Cash at bank 1.0% 12.7 12.7 – – –
Loans 7.8% (35.3) (31.5) (0.3) (0.2) (3.3)
Finance lease liabilities 8.8% (23.5) (4.9) (5.0) (8.6) (5.0)
Convertible Bond 8.25% (44.4) – – (44.4) –
Bank overdrafts 9.5% (12.2) (12.2) – – –
(102.7) (35.9) (5.3) (53.2) (8.3)
Foreign currency risk management
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other
than pounds sterling. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily, US Dollars, South African Rand, Mozambique Metical,
Kenyan Shilling and Central African Franc, South Sudanese Pound, Tanzanian Shilling, Botswana Pula, and Namibian Dollar.
The carrying amount of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities, and its total net
assets at the reporting date is as follows:
Monetary net assets Total net assets
2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m
US Dollar (51.5) (77.8) 61.4 52.4
South African Rand (8.8) (7.9) 31.2 (3.9)
Mozambique Metical 0.6 1.8 32.1 26.7
Kenyan Shillings (0.9) (1.0) 7.3 2.5
Central African Franc (11.3) (12.3) (11.3) (12.3)
South Sudanese Pound – – 1.4 (0.8)
Zambian Kwacha – 0.3 – –
Tanzanian Shilling (0.4) – (0.3) –
Botswana Pula (3.6) – (1.3) –
Namibian Dollar 0.1 – – –
75.8 (96.9) 120.5 64.6
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 107
31. Financial instruments (continued) The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
Average Rate Closing Rate
2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m
US Dollar 1.58 1.56 1.62 1.55
South African Rand 12.99 12.74 13.69 12.54
Mozambique Metical 44.28 41.32 47.57 40.95
Kenyan Shilling 131.85 133.35 138.26 129.21
Central African Franc 797.17 760.29 800.23 768.48
The Company does not have any exposure to foreign currencies at the reporting date (2011: £nil).
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
A 10% strengthening of the UK sterling against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased/(decreased)
equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
2012 2011
Equity Profit/(loss) Equity Profit/(loss)
£m £m £m £m
US Dollar (5.6) (0.1) (4.8) 1.4
South African Rand (2.8) (0.5) 0.4 –
Mozambique Metical (2.9) (0.1) (2.4) (0.2)
Kenyan Shilling (0.7) – (0.2) –
Central African Franc 1.0 0.1 1.1 0.1
South Sudanese Pound (0.1) (0.2) ––
Botswana Pula 0.1 0.1 ––
A 10% weakening of UK sterling against the above currencies at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 would have had the
equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain
constant.
Interest rate risk management
The Group is exposed to interest rate changes on its floating rate borrowings, arising principally from changes in borrowing rates
in US Dollars, South African Rand, Central African Franc, Kenyan Shilling, Mozambique Metical and Sterling.
The Group manages interest rate risk by issuing a combination of fixed and floating rate debt instruments, and through the use
of derivative instruments (interest rate swaps). At 31 December 2012, the Group had 72% (2011: 57%) of fixed rate debt and 28%
(2011: 43%) of floating rate debt based on a gross debt of £108.8m (2011: £115.4m).
The fair value of derivative instrument liabilities at 31 December 2012 was £0.1m (2011: £nil).
The Group’s exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management
section of this note.
Capital management
The Board’s policy for the Group and Company is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and
market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital,
which the Group defines as net operating income divided by total shareholders’ equity, excluding non-controlling interests.
As the Group is in a phase of expansion, the key capital requirements are to ensure that funding is available for current and
planned projects. Historically this has been achieved through capital raises, but as the Group has developed, funding has been
raised through a mix of debt and equity.
The Group considers shareholders funds plus long term debt to represent capital as defined by IAS 1. The Group currently has
no target debt to equity funding range.
The Directors keep under review the capital structure of the Group, with the objective of adopting a progressive, prudent
dividend policy once the Company has sufficient distributable reserves and has achieved a level of sustained profitability, taking
108
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Financial instruments (continued) Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 109
into account the Group’s financial position, underlying earnings and cash flows, the resources required for the Group’s
development and the prevailing market outlook.
Fair values
The fair value of a financial instrument is the price at which one party would assume the rights and/or duties of another party.
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments at the
balance sheet date.
(a) Investment in jointly controlled entity
Fair value is calculated with reference to the quoted price (unadjusted) of the instrument in an active market.
(b) Trade and other receivables/payables
For receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All other receivables/payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
(c) Finance lease liabilities
The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous
lease agreements. The estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
(d) Loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
(e) Convertible bond
Fair value is calculated with reference to the quoted price (unadjusted) of the instrument in an active market.
(f) Debt-related derivative financial instruments
The fair value is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows and translating at the appropriate balance sheet rates.
The following table compares the estimated fair values of certain financial assets and liabilities to their carrying values at the
balance sheet date.
2012 2011
Net carrying Estimated Net carrying Estimated
amount fair value amount fair value
£m £m £m £m
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Investment in jointly controlled entity 37.4 44.4 ––
CURRENT ASSETS
Trade and other receivables 44.2 44.2 48.8 48.8
Cash at bank 17.0 17.0 12.7 12.7
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Finance lease liabilities (1.3) (1.3) (18.6) (18.6)
Loans and Borrowings (33.3) (32.5) (32.3) (28.5)
Debt-related derivative financial instruments (0.1) (0.1) ––
Convertible bond (43.0) (38.7) (44.4) (38.1)
Trade and other payables (4.3) (3.7) (16.1) (13.9)
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Finance lease liabilities (1.2) (1.2) (4.9) (4.9)
Loans and Borrowings (22.9) (25.3) (3.0) (6.2)
Bank overdrafts (5.9) (5.9) (12.2) (12.2)
Trade and other payables (37.2) (37.2) (39.7) (39.7)
The estimated fair values of the remaining financial assets and liabilities are consistent with their carrying values at the balance
sheet date.
31. Financial instruments (continued) Fair value measurement hierarchy
The fair value of assets and liabilities can be classed in three levels:
Level 1 – Fair values measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Fair values measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or
liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3 – Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data
(i.e. unobservable inputs).
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value.
2012 2011
Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
LIABILITIES
Debt-related derivative financial instruments – 0.1 0.1 –––
– 0.1 0.1 –––
32. Operating leases
At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Aircraft Property Equipment Total
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year – 2.3 2.7 1.7 0.2 0.1 2.9 4.1
Between one and five years – 3.0 12.4 8.7 0.2 0.2 12.6 11.9
Over five years – – 13.5 – – – 13.5 –
– 5.3 28.6 10.4 0.4 0.3 29.0 16.0
Included in the above are property leases of the Company amounting to £0.4m (2011: £0.4m) less than 1 year and £1.3m (2011:
£1.7m) between one and five years.
All leases are on standard market terms with no amounts of variable lease payments.
33. Capital commitments
Other capital commitments of £nil will be paid within the next financial year (2011: £0.2m). 
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2012 (2011: £nil).
34. Contingent liabilities
There were no contingent liabilities at the reporting date (2011: £nil), the outturn of which the Directors consider could
materially impact the financial statements. The Group has no contractual obligation to provide future funding to associates or
joint ventures and has no contingent liabilities in respect of its associates and joint ventures. The Directors do not consider that
any of the Group’s associates or joint ventures have material contingent liabilities. 
35. Related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (see note 36), associates and jointly controlled entity’s (see
note 18 and 19), companies in which the Group has an investment, and with its Directors.
Transactions with subsidiaries
Transactions within the Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
At the reporting date Lonrho Africa (Holdings) Limited owed the Company £144.2m (2011: £127.3m). Lonrho Africa (Holdings)
Limited holds the operating bank accounts for the Group and the majority of the Group’s investments in subsidiaries. The
movement on the intercompany balance represents the transfer of cash raised during the year through the capital raises.
Other amounts owed by Group undertakings at the reporting date were Lonrho Projects South Africa (Pty) Limited £0.1m (2011:
£nil), Lonrho Hotels Management Services Limited £0.1m (2011: £nil), Lonrho Agribusiness Limited £0.3m (2011: £nil) and Lonrho
Support Services Limited £1.6m (2011: £nil).
110
Financial Statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Financial instruments (continued) At the reporting date the Company owed Lonrho Africa Holdings (Jersey) Limited £44.8m (2011: £37.2m), Lonrho Agribusiness
Limited £0.8m (2011: £nil), Lonrho Africa (Holdings) Limited £nil (2011: £0.3m), and Eatec Limited £0.4m (2011: £0.4m).
Transactions with associates
Cambria Africa Plc (formally LonZim Plc)
During the period Lonrho disposed of its entire holding in Cambria Africa Plc (formally Lonzim Plc).
The final disposal took place on 12 September 2012. At 31 December 2012, the Company owned 22.92% of Cambria Africa Plc
and therefore is deemed to have exerted significant influence over the company during the year and up to the point of disposal.
During the period the Company charged £0.3m (2011: £0.7m) to Cambria Africa Plc as a management charge. At the reporting
date £0.3m was due from Cambria Africa Plc (2011: £nil).
During the year, Lonrho Hotels charged £0.1m to the Leopard Rock Hotel Company (Pty) Limited (2011: £0.1m), a Cambria Africa
Plc company, in relation to management fees. At the reporting date £0.1m remained outstanding (2011: £0.1m).
On 1 July 2009 Cambria Africa Plc acquired an aircraft from Lonrho Air Three (BVI) Limited, a subsidiary of Lonrho Plc, for a total
of US$4.3m (£2.6m). The aircraft is leased to Five Forty Aviation Limited (which was a Lonrho subsidiary until 29 June 2012).
Total amounts charged under this arrangement during the year until 29 June 2012 were £0.2m (period ending 31 December
2011: £0.4m).
Cambria Africa Plc also leased one aircraft to Fly 540 Uganda, which was a Lonrho subsidiary for part of the year (refer note 8),
on industry standard operating lease terms. Total amounts charged under this arrangement during the year until 29 June 2012
were £0.1m (period ending 31 December 2011: £0.3m).
During the period ended 31 December 2011 Cambria Africa Plc leased a further aircraft to Fly540 Uganda on industry standard
operating lease terms, however this lease arrangement came to an end in February 2011. Total amounts charged under this
arrangement in the period to 31 December 2011 were £0.1m.
On 30 September 2011 Lonrho Hotels (Holdings) Limited acquired an 80% interest from Cambria Africa Plc in the share capital
of Aldeamento Turistico de Macuti S.A.R.L. (details provided in Note 7b). During the year up to the point at which Cambria Africa
Plc was no longer a related party, Lonrho Hotels (Holdings) Limited made deferred consideration, interest and loan payments to
Cambria Africa Plc in respect of this acquisition totaling £1.0m (2011: £0.2m). At the date of disposal £2.4m (2011: £3.1m) of
deferred consideration and £0.3m (2011: £0.6m) of loans were payable by Lonrho Hotels (Holdings) Limited to Cambria Africa
Plc.
Investments
Swissta DRC SPRL
The Group holds 20% of Swissta DRC SPRL. At the reporting date £0.1m (2011: £0.1m) was due from Swissta DRC SPRL as a
result of a short term non-interest bearing loan.
Arlington Associates International Limited
The Group recognised management fee income from Arlington Associates International Limited of £1.0m (2011: £nil), which was
outstanding at the reporting date.
Transactions with key management personnel
Key management personnel are considered to be the Company’s Directors.
During the period £0.04m (2011: £0.04m) was charged to the Group by DSG Chartered Accountants. Jean Ellis, non-executive
Director, is a partner in this firm.
The key management personnel compensations are as follows:
Year 15 months
ended 31 ended 31
December December
2012 2011
£m £m
Short-term employee benefits 2.6 4.0
Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.2
Gain on share options exercised 0.4 0.5
Payment in lieu of notice and other benefits 0.8 –
4.1 4.7
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 111
35. Related parties (continued) Total remuneration is included in “staff costs” (see note 9). 
Details of Directors’ remuneration are given on page 77.
36. Group entities 
Principal subsidiaries
Ownership interest
Country of incorporation 2012 2011
Luba Freeport Limited Jersey 63% 63%
Sociedade Comercial Bytes & Pieces Limitada Mozambique 65% 65%
Hotel Cardoso SARL Mozambique 59.04% 59.04%
Lonrho Africa (Holdings) Limited* UK 100% 100%
Rollex (Pty) Limited South Africa 100% 100%
e-Kwikbuild Housing Company (Pty) Limited South Africa 35.91% 35.91%
Trak Auto Lda Mozambique 100% 100%
Oceanfresh Seafoods (Pty) Limited South Africa 51% 51%
Indigo Bay Seafoods Incorporated USA 51% 51%
Protea Seafoods Mauritius Mauritius 51% 51%
Fresh Direct Limited British Virgin Islands 100% 100%
Grand Karavia SPRL Democratic Republic of Congo 50% 50%
Lonrho Agribusiness (BVI) Limited British Virgin Islands 100% 100%
Aldeamento Turistico de Macuti SARL Mozambique 80% 80%
LonAgro Equipamentos Agricolas Limitada Angola 51% 51%
Lonrho Logistics (Pty) Limited South Africa 100% 100%
Fish On Line (Pty) Limited South Africa 68% 51%
Global Horizons Limited Isle of Man 100% 100%
Africa Expeditions Limited Kenya 95% 95%
Sportsgear Investments (Private) Limited Zimbabwe 100% 100%
Burp Track Investments (Private) Limited Zimbabwe 100% 100%
Crosshairs Point (Private) Limited Zimbabwe 100% 100%
Yuagong (Pty) Limited Botswana 100% 100%
Lonrho Support Services Limited* UK 100% 100%
LAH Jersey Limited* Jersey 100% 100%
* Directly held by the Company.
Inclusion of all the subsidiaries in the Group would be excessive and therefore only the significant trading entities are shown
above.
A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.
Although the Group owns less than half, or half, of the voting power of e-Kwikbuild Housing Company (Pty) Limited and Grand
Karavia SPRL, the Group has Board control giving it the ability to govern the financial and operating policies of those companies
and hence the Group consolidates its investment in these companies.
Exchange control procedures exist in Mozambique, Angola, Zimbabwe, Democratic Republic of Congo and South Africa which
place restrictions on repatriation of cash to the Group.
37. Events after the reporting date
On 9 January 2013, the Company granted options over 484,612 ordinary shares of 1p each in the Company, exercisable on
1 February 2016 in accordance with the rules of the Lonrho Sharesave Scheme at 7.8p per share. 
On 18 January 2013, the Company granted options over 2,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each in the Company under the
Lonrho Unapproved Share Option Plan exercisable at 9.252p per share. The options have a two year vesting period and a four
year exercise period from date of grant. 
On 14 March 2013, 15,825,000 ordinary shares of 1p were issued in relation to the AFEX share purchase agreement.
112
Financial Statements
35. Related parties (continued)
Notes to the financial statements continued Analysis of ordinary shareholdings as at 28 February 2013
Number of % of total Number % of total
holders holders of shares shares
UK REGISTER 
Category of shareholder
Individuals 17,811 87.62 55,007,439 3.44
Banks, nominees & other corporate bodies 1,296 6.38 1,537,732,011 96.27
19,107 94.00 1,592,739,450 99.72
SA REGISTER
Category of shareholder
Individuals 1,093 5.37 1,375,505 0.09
Banks, nominees & other corporate bodies 128 0.63 3,164,033 0.20
1,221 6.00 4,539,538 0.28
COMBINED REGISTERS
Shareholding range
1 – 500 13,243 65.15 1,955,715 0.12
501 – 1,000 2,273 11.18 1,623,088 0.10
1,001 – 5,000 2,561 12.60 5,845,160 0.37
5,001 – 50,000 1,622 7.98 29,054,139 1.82
50,001 – 100,000 223 1.10 16,820,465 1.05
100,001 – 500,000 225 1.11 50,907,492 3.19
500,001 – 1,000,000 52 0.26 36,739,827 2.30
1,000,001 and over 129 0.63 1,454,333,102 91.05
20,328 100.00 1,597,278,988 100.00
Capital gains tax base cost of shares at demerger
For capital gains tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in either Lonrho Plc or Lonmin Plc after 7 May 1998, who held
shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two companies. Based
on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 of Lonrho Plc and Lonmin Plc this apportionment would be 19.502% for Lonrho Plc
and 80.498% for Lonmin Plc.
For capital gains tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in either Lonrho Plc or Castle Acquisitions Plc after 3 May 2005,
who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of their original Lonrho Plc shares between the two
companies. Based on the closing share prices on 3 May 2005 of Lonrho Plc and Castle Acquisitions Plc this apportionment
would be 81.8333% for Lonrho Plc and 18.1667% for Castle Acquisitions Plc.
Registrars
All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as queries concerning dividend payments, notification of change of
address or the loss of a share certificate, should be addressed to the Company’s registrars.
Free share sale facility
The Company welcomes shareholders regardless of the size of their holding. However, it recognises the often disproportionate
cost to smaller shareholders of disposing of their investments. In view of this the Company has arranged for its Registrars to
offer a share sale service free of charge to investors with a holding of 1,000 shares or less. Details of the service can be obtained
by telephoning Equiniti on 0800 169 2608 (if calling from overseas please dial +44 121 415 7047), or Link Market Services South
Africa Proprietary on +27 (0) 11 713 0800.
ShareGift
Lonrho supports ShareGift, the share donation charity (registered charity 1052686) which accepts donations of shares which
would otherwise be uneconomic to sell, collects them into holdings that are large enough to sell and uses the proceeds for the
benefit of UK Charities. ShareGift has given millions of pounds to hundreds of different charities since it was launched in 1996.
Donating shares to charity in this way gives rise neither to a gain nor a loss for Capital Gains Tax purposes.
Shareholders who wish to donate shares in this way can contact Equiniti as above or, for further information, ShareGift (The Orr
Mackintosh Foundation), www.ShareGift.org or telephone + 44 (0) 20 7930 3737.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 113
Investor Information
Shareholder Information Unsolicited mail
As the Company’s share register is, by law, open to public inspection, shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from
organisations that use it as a mailing list. Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such mail should write to the Mailing
Preference Society, Freepost 29 Lon20771, London W1E 0ZT.
Share Fraud Warning
Share Fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or
non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own. These calls come from fraudsters operating in ‘boiler rooms’ that are
mostly based abroad.
While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has found most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an average of
£20,000, with around £200m lost in the UK each year.
Protect yourself
If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or
research reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money:
1. Get the name of the person and organization contacting you.
2. Check the FSA Register at www.fsa.gov.uk/fsaregister to ensure they are authorised.
3. Use the details on the FSA Register to contact the firm.
4. Call the FSA Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234 if there are no contact details on the Register or you are told they are
out of date.
5. Search our list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid doing business with.
6. REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman
Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if things go wrong.
Report a Scam
If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FSA using the share fraud reporting form at
www.fsa.gov.uk/scams, where you can find out about the latest investment scams. You can also call the Consumer Helpline
on 0845 606 1234
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on
0300 123 2040
114
Investor Information
Shareholder Information continued Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 115
Secretary and registered office
J H Hughes
Level 2
25 Berkeley Square
London
W1J 6HB
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7016 5105
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7016 5109
e-mail: hughes@lonrho.com
Website: www.lonrho.com
Registered in England
Registered number 2805337
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5GL
PR Advisers
FTI Consulting
Holborn Gate
26 Southampton Buildings
London
WC2A 1PB
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7831 3113
Fax: +44 (0) 20 3077 0599
Principal Group Bankers
Barclays Bank Plc
Lord Street
Liverpool
L2 6PB
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Tel: 0800 169 2608 (if calling from UK)
Tel: +44 121 415 7047 (if calling from overseas)
Textel: 0871 384 2255 (for the hard of hearing)
Please be advised calls to the textel line are charged at 8p/min
from BT landlines. Other telephone providers’ costs may vary.
South African transfer secretaries
Link Market Services South Africa Proprietary Limited
PO Box 4844
Johannesburg 2000
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0) 11 713 0800
Fax: +27 (0) 86 674 4381
Stockbrokers
Jefferies Hoare Govett
WH Ireland
Java Capital (Pty) Ltd
Corporate Information   Lonrho Plc
25 Berkeley Square, London, W1J 6HB
Tel: +44 (0) 207 016 5105
www.lonrho.com
