 ANNUAL REPORT
ACCOUNTS  I  31ST DECEMBER 2013
AND Group Net Assets
5 year history
£228m
£204m
£197m
£182m
£160m
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
£ million
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
Lookers plc  –  Registered Office: 
776 Chester Road, Stretford, Manchester, M32 0QH.  
Registered Number: 111876 Mercedes-Benz of Gatwick L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
1
2 01 3 REVIEW
Financial Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . 02 
Chairman’s Review . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05 
Chief Executive’s Review . . . . . . . . 09 
Finance Director’s Review . . . . . . . 17 
Board of Directors  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 
Directors’ Report  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 
Chairman’s Statement 
on Corporate Governance . . . . . . . 29 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Review . . . . . . . . . . 33 
Directors’ Remuneration Report  .34 
Independent Auditor’s Report  . . . 48 
Principal Accounting Policies . . . . 53 
Consolidated and Company 
Income Statements  . . . . . . . . . . . . 59 
Consolidated and Company 
Statements of Comprehensive 
Income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59 
Consolidated and Company 
Statements of Financial Position  .60 
Consolidated and Company 
Statements of Changes in Equity .61 
Consolidated and Company 
Cash Flow Statements . . . . . . . . . . 62 
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . 63 
Trading Outlets and Interests in 
Major Subsidiary Companies . . . . 93 
Five Year Record  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94 
Notice of Meeting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95 
Shareholders, Bankers 
and Professional Advisors  . . . . . 100
CONTENTS
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
5 March 2014  Announcement of the results for the full year  
29 May 2014  Annual General Meeting  
Bentley Continental 
Flying Spur Damson
MISSION STATEMENT  –  Together we will strive to be an outstanding company achieving Customers for Life L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
2
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Taggarts Land Rover, 
Glasgow South 
“ We have delivered another strong trading performance 
 in 2013, our fifth year of successive profit growth.”
 ANDY BRUCE, Chief Executive L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
3
Revenue
£2.46 billion
Adjusted Profit 
from Operations
£58.4m
*
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009      
*Adjusted Profit from Operations   (Millions of pounds)
*Adjusted before amortisation of intangible assets, 
 exceptional items and debt issue costs .
Basic Earnings 
Per Share
9.28p
£48.1m
*
Adjusted Profit 
Before Tax
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Revenue  (Millions of pounds)
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
*Adjusted Profit Before Tax   (Millions of pounds)
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
Basic Earnings Per Share   (Pence)
2009  2010  2011  2012  2013 L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
4
2 01 3 REVIEW
“The group continues to generate significant levels of 
 operational cash flow, resulting in lower levels of bank 
borrowings, a strengthened balance sheet and a stronger 
financial position.”
 PHIL WHITE, Chairman
Ferrari LaFerrari L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
5
CHAIRMAN’S 
REVIEW
2 01 3 REVIEW
I am delighted to report that this is our 
fifth consecutive year of profit growth and 
that Lookers has achieved an *adjusted 
profit before tax of £48.1 million (2012: 
£38.0 million). This result has been achieved 
against the background of a welcome and 
strong recovery in the UK new car market 
which has returned to a more normal level 
of activity, in conjunction with an improving 
UK economy.
Total registrations for the UK new car market 
in the year were 2.26 million, an increase of 
10.8%. Our motor division, again, delivered an 
excellent performance producing strong growth 
in volumes of both new and used cars, ahead of 
the market.
I am very pleased to report that our independent 
parts distribution business has made good 
progress in the year. Whilst I have previously 
reported that market conditions in this sector 
have been challenging, the management team 
in the parts division have returned the business 
to growth with improvements in both turnover 
and profit before tax to levels which are ahead 
of last year.
The group continues to generate significant 
levels of operational cash flow, resulting in 
lower levels of bank borrowings, a strengthened 
balance sheet and a stronger financial position. 
We also renewed and extended our banking 
facilities in February 2014 which has provided 
the group with additional funding for a longer 
period of time. Further details of our progress 
in both the motor division and the parts division 
are provided in the Strategic and Operational 
Review. A more detailed consideration of the 
improvement in financial performance during 
the year together with the cash flow and 
financial position of the group are given in the 
Financial Review.
DIVIDEND
I am pleased to announce that with another 
positive result for the year and improved 
financial position of the company, the board is 
again intending to increase the total dividend 
for the year. We are proposing to pay a final 
dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 
of 1.7p per share, giving a total dividend for 
the year ended 31 December 2013 of 2.58p 
per share (2012: 2.35p). This represents an 
increase in the total dividend for the year of 
10%. Payment of the final dividend is subject to 
approval by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting and will be payable on 4 June 2014.
BOARD CHANGES
As I mentioned in our interim report, Peter 
Jones, our Chief Executive of over four years, 
retired on 31 December 2013. Peter made an 
outstanding contribution to Lookers, leading 
the company during a period in which the 
profitability and market capitalisation increased 
significantly with consecutive record results 
from 2009 to the present day.
Andy Bruce, previously the group’s Chief 
Operating Officer, has now taken the role of 
Chief Executive, with effect from 1 January 
2014. Andy is a key member of the board and 
the development of the motor division under his 
leadership has been tremendous.
“There has clearly 
been a welcome 
recovery in both 
the UK new car 
market and the 
general UK 
economy and our 
motor division 
has produced an 
outstanding result 
during the year.”
PHIL WHITE, 
Chairman
(*Adjusted before amortisation 
of intangible assets and debt 
issue costs)
Ford Fiesta ST L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
6
OUTLOOK
There has clearly been a welcome recovery in 
both the UK new car market and the general UK 
economy and our motor division has produced 
an outstanding result during the year. In the 
year ahead we have further opportunities 
to develop our existing business as well as 
benefiting from acquisitions made in 2013. The 
parts division has made a good recovery and 
has further potential for future growth.
The group balance sheet continues to be 
strengthened by positive operational cash 
flow and we have substantial headroom in 
our bank facilities, with net debt continuing to 
be closely controlled. This provides financial 
security for the group as well as providing 
funding for strategic acquisitions in both 
the motor and parts divisions, as further 
opportunities arise.
I also referred in our interim report, to the 
appointment of Nigel McMinn as Managing 
Director of the motor division. Nigel assumed 
this important role on 1 January 2014 and is 
already making an excellent contribution to the 
company.
I am also pleased to report that Richard Walker 
joined the board on 4 February 2014 as a 
non-executive director. He brings significant 
operational expertise in the retail environment, 
which I am sure will be of great benefit to 
Lookers.
Together with all my colleagues on the board 
I would like to thank Peter for his invaluable 
contribution, wish Andy success in his new 
role and welcome Nigel and Richard to Lookers 
where I believe they will make a valuable 
contribution to the development of the company.
2 01 3 REVIEW
“We also renewed 
and extended our 
banking facilities 
in February 2014 
which has provided 
the group with 
additional funding 
for a longer period 
of time.”
PHIL WHITE, 
Chairman L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
7
“The new 
financial year 
has started well, 
with results so 
far being ahead 
of both budget 
and the prior year. 
We are therefore 
confident that we 
are well placed 
to deliver future 
growth.”
PHIL WHITE, 
Chairman
The new financial year has started well, with 
results so far being ahead of both budget and 
the prior year. We are therefore confident that 
we are well placed to deliver future growth. 
The group is in a strong position to continue to 
trade successfully in 2014 and develop further 
opportunities in all areas of the business
I would like to conclude by thanking all our 
people at Lookers for their hard work and 
dedication and without whom we would not 
have been able to deliver such a result for the 
fifth consecutive year.
Phil White
Chairman
5 March 2014
2 01 3 REVIEW
L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
7
Audi, Glasgow –
One of the largest Audi centres in Europe
Toyota Auris 
Sports Tourer L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
8
2 01 3 REVIEW
“ Our operations are carried out across all four 
UK countries and Ireland, with a presence in 
most of the major population centres. ”            
 ANDY BRUCE, Chief Executive
Range Rover Sport L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
9
STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW 
BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY
Business model 
With a group turnover of £2.4 billion in 
2013, Lookers is one of the leading motor 
retail and aftersales groups in the UK. Our 
operations are carried out across all four 
UK countries and Ireland, with a presence in 
most of the major population centres. We sell 
approximately 117,000 new and used cars per 
year and in addition, we have a very significant 
independent parts distribution business, which 
is the leader in its sector of the market.
As noted above, the group operates through two 
distinct divisions, the motor division and the parts 
division and details of each division are explained 
in further detail below. However, operating in 
two distinctly separate sectors within the UK 
motor retail market gives us a unique and diverse 
business structure. This differentiates Lookers in 
the motor retail sector with the parts business 
providing a high quality, higher margin earnings 
stream that has greater stability than the new 
and used car markets, which can sometimes 
be subject to volatility. The group’s business 
activities, financial condition, results of operations 
or the company’s share price could be affected 
by certain principal risks or uncertainties which 
are included in the directors’ report section of the 
2013 annual report and accounts.
Motor division
The motor division consists of 119 franchised 
dealerships representing 32 marques from 70 
locations. The business generates revenue from 
the sale of new and used cars and aftersales 
activities. Aftersales represents the servicing, 
repair and sale of franchised parts to customers’ 
vehicles. The new car market in the UK has 
been approximately 2 million new cars sold per 
annum during the past five years and our share 
of the retail sector of this market is just over 
4%. The used car market in the UK has annual 
transactions of approximately 6.7 million vehicles 
and represents a major opportunity for us to 
increase volumes in this part of the market. The 
aftersales market applies to the overall number of 
cars in use on UK roads, which is referred to as 
the UK car parc. This consists of approximately 
30 million vehicles where approximately 20% or 
six million vehicles are under three years old and 
these vehicles are primarily the market which 
is catered for by the franchised motor dealers, 
including our motor division. In recent years the 
internet has become increasingly important and 
is now the primary means for our customers to 
research and determine which new or used car 
they are interested in buying. Our website and 
associated digital marketing channels are now a 
very important part of the business.
Parts division
Our parts division operates in the independent 
aftermarket sector of the UK motor retail market, 
where we operate through three distinct operating 
companies which supply automotive parts to the 
independent automotive aftermarket, where we 
operate from 22 locations, providing a national 
network to cover the whole of the UK. This means 
that our customers are predominantly motor 
factors who are the final part of the distribution 
chain and who distribute parts to the independent 
non franchised repairers. The parts division is 
typically supplying parts to 80% of the UK vehicle 
parc where the vehicles are over three years 
old and therefore operates in a different part of 
the market to the franchised dealerships. This 
represents a market of approximately 24 million 
cars in the UK and each of the three companies 
in our parts division are market leaders in their 
segment of the market. 
Business strategy 
The company’s strategy is to operate a diverse 
business in the UK motor sector. This includes 
operating with a wide range of manufacturer 
partners across a wide geographical area, both 
of which help to reduce exposure to anomalies or 
fluctuations in demand, which may affect specific 
manufacturers or locations. The independent 
parts distribution business also provides further 
diversity as the revenue and profitability of 
this business are less subject to volatility that 
sometimes affects the demand for new and used 
cars.
We aim to grow the business by a combination 
of organic growth in the existing business, where 
there are many opportunities for increasing 
revenue, as well as from targeted and selective 
acquisitions in both the motor and parts divisions. 
We aim to be recognised as the UK’s most 
professional and successful motor retail and 
aftersales service group by our customers, 
employees, business partners and shareholders. 
We strive to deliver sector leading value whilst 
providing our customers with market leading 
customer service, optimising customer retention 
and being an outstanding company that achieves 
our mission of customers for life.
2 01 3 REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW
“However, 
operating in 
two distinctly 
separate sectors 
within the UK 
motor retail 
market gives us 
a unique and 
diverse business 
structure. ”
ANDY BRUCE, 
Chief Executive L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
10
2 01 3 REVIEW
MOTOR VEHICLES
ALFA ROMEO 1 n
ASTON MARTIN  1 n
AUDI 5 nnnnn
BENTLEY  1 n
CHRYSLER 1 n
CITROËN 5 nnnnn
DACIA 6 nnnnnn
FERRARI   1 n
FIAT 1 n
FORD 7 nnnnnnn
HONDA  3 nnn
HYUNDAI  2 nn
JAGUAR  4 nnnn
JEEP 2 nn
KIA  3 nnn
LAND ROVER  10 nnnnnnnnnn
LEXUS   2 nn
MASERATI   1 n
MANUFACTURER BRANDS    Our MOTOR DIVISION consists of                     119 Franchise Dealerships representing 31 marques from 70 sites
Fiat 500L Trekking Skoda Rapid SE Connect
Jaguar F-TYPE L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
11
2 01 3 REVIEW
MERCEDES-BENZ   6 nnnnnn
NISSAN 5 nnnnn
PEUGEOT  4 nnnn
RENAULT  6 nnnnnn
SEAT 2 nn
SKODA 2 nn
SMART  4 nnnn
TOYOTA 3 nnn
VAUXHALL 13 nnnnnnnnnnnnn
VOLKSWAGEN 9 nnnnnnnnn
VOLVO  3 nnn
MOTORCYCLES
BMW 1 n
YAMAHA 1 n
MANUFACTURER BRANDS    Our MOTOR DIVISION consists of                     119 Franchise Dealerships representing 31 marques from 70 sites
Peugeot 2008 Vauxhall Insignia
Audi RS 7 L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
12
Business review
Summary of financial and non financial KPIs:
Performance
The motor division delivered another excellent 
trading performance during the year and the 
parts division made a good recovery, returning 
to growth with a strong result for the year. The 
group delivered record results for a fifth year with 
*adjusted profit before tax of £48.1 million (2012: 
£38.0 million). I am delighted with this result 
which I believe is a significant achievement even 
against the background of the improving new car 
market in the UK.
The key elements of this creditable achievement 
were: 
• a significant increase in new car retail sales at 
improved margins; 
• a significant growth in used car volumes and 
margins; 
• improvement in both aftersales turnover and 
margin; 
• growth in both turnover and profit in the parts 
division against improving but competitive 
market conditions. 
We have now had five successive years of 
increased profits, the majority of which have been 
delivered in restricted market circumstances. 
Growth in the UK new car market in 2013 
was encouraging and this, together with our 
performance over recent years, gives us further 
confidence in our ability to grow the business 
2 01 3 REVIEW
Land Rover, Chipperfield
Land Rover, Chipperfield Taggarts Land Rover, Glasgow South
(*Adjusted before 
amortisation of 
intangible assets and 
debt issue costs)
  2013 2012
 FINANCIAL
 Turnover £2,464.5m £2,056.6m
 Gross Profit £335.8m £303.3m
 Gross margin 13.6% 14.7%
 Operating profit £58.4m £49.2m
 Operating margin 2.4% 2.4%
 *Adjusted profit before tax £48.1m £38.0m
 *Adjusted net margin 1.95% 1.8%
 Earnings per share 9.3p 6.77p
 Net debt £43.1m £48.2m
 Gearing 19% 24%
 NON FINANCIAL
 UK new car market 2.26m 2.05m
 Group new car sales 63,608 55,313
 Share of UK market 2.8% 2.7%
 Group used car sales 53,713 44,748
 Group employees 5,772 5,489 L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
13
2 01 3 REVIEW
again in 2014. As economic conditions improve 
further, we are well placed to take advantage of 
growth opportunities in the new and used car 
markets, which will also in turn increase demand 
for aftersales and parts, as the number of cars 
under three years old continues to rise. 
OPERATING REVIEW
MOTOR DIVISION
I am pleased to report that the motor division 
increased its profit before tax by 34% to £42.6 
million, a record for the business and a significant 
increase over the prior year’s result of £31.7 
million.
We continue to improve the balance of our 
portfolio of franchise representation and during 
2013 we sold or closed five underperforming 
businesses and acquired three new businesses.
On 16 May 2013, we acquired Shields 
Automotive, which operates a significant Land 
Rover dealership in South Glasgow and was 
acquired for a cash consideration of £8.8 million. 
This included a number of surplus freehold 
properties, two of which were sold in June for 
£4.3 million, reducing the net consideration paid 
for the business.
On 1 October 2013, we acquired Chipperfield 
Land Rover, which operates a significant Land 
Rover dealership in Hertfordshire, for a cash 
consideration of £10.5 million. This is an important 
development in the group’s representation 
of the Land Rover brand in the South East 
complementing our existing Land Rover 
businesses in Battersea and West London.
On 11 December 2013, we completed the 
purchase of a Volkswagen Commercial Vehicle 
business in Glasgow which represents this 
franchise for the important and major City of 
Glasgow and the surrounding area.
New Cars
The UK new car market increased by 10.8% to 
2.26 million cars in the period, with the new car 
retail market increasing by 15.6% and the fleet 
market increasing by 6.7%. Lookers core retail 
new car sales increased by 19.0% compared to 
2012 levels, on a like for like basis. In the fleet 
sector, our volumes reduced by 3.0%, as we 
continued to focus on higher margin business. 
Whilst volumes were slightly lower, overall gross 
profit from fleet business increased in the year.
Gross profit per unit on new retail cars increased 
by 6.5% compared to the prior year, whilst gross 
profit per unit on fleet business increased by 10% 
compared to the previous year. The new retail 
market continues to be strong and our order 
“We have 
now had five 
successive years 
of increased 
profits, the 
majority of 
which have 
been delivered 
in restricted 
market 
circumstances.”
ANDY BRUCE, 
Chief Executive
Taggarts Land Rover, Glasgow South L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
14
2 01 3 REVIEW
“The internet 
increasingly 
dominates 
consumers’ 
research and 
we continue 
to migrate 
marketing 
expenditure 
from offline, 
traditional 
media to online 
channels. ”
ANDY BRUCE, 
Chief Executive
loyalty and retention, have also increased 
significantly. These initiatives help us to identify 
and optimise service and repair requirements 
on all vehicles visiting us which, combined with 
our commitment to deliver excellent customer 
service and enhance customer experience, are 
key factors in maximising our ‘customers for life’ 
strategy, to strengthen the business and further 
improve profitability.
Business Development
Marketing strategy
The internet increasingly dominates consumers’ 
research and we continue to migrate marketing 
expenditure from offline, traditional media to 
online channels. Our visitor and enquiry levels 
continue to show significant increases, not only 
as more consumers research their purchases 
online, but as a result of our ongoing investment 
in improving our website. The website is now 
fully compatible with mobile devices and we are 
enhancing our digital showroom with extended 
hours to include live chat, increasing use of video 
and full engagement with social media.
Customer satisfaction 
During 2013 we launched our Customers for Life 
strategy, which is designed to further improve 
our level of customer experience, retention and 
referral. Much of our focus has been on ensuring 
our staff satisfaction is enhanced as well as 
conducting extensive customer research to 
continually refine our offering to them. The early 
results of our refreshed approach have been very 
encouraging.
Employee development
We recognise that our people are our key asset 
that allows us to deliver our strategy and we 
continue to invest in an enhanced training and 
development programme. We have increased 
the number of training courses available to all 
staff, including the innovative use of an e-learning 
platform as well as further improvements to our 
structured and formal management development 
programme. This has been aligned with our new 
customer experience strategy to ensure our staff 
develop the skills needed to deliver enhanced 
levels of customer satisfaction.
PARTS DIVISION
As referred to earlier in the Chairman’s review, 
our parts division experienced challenging market 
conditions in 2012, although managed to maintain 
turnover in that year. I am therefore very pleased 
to report that the parts division increased both 
turnover and profits compared to the prior year, 
against a background of an improving market 
although one that continues to be competitive.
Turnover for the division increased by £10.5m, 
an increase of 6% compared to the prior year as 
we continue to expand the business by investing 
in existing and new product lines. Whilst sales 
volumes increased, this was accompanied by a 
small increase in margin. Overheads, however, 
were carefully controlled resulting in an increase 
in profit before tax of 6% to £11.8 million, 
take for the important month of March is tracking 
ahead of plan.
Used Cars
Whilst used car transactions in the UK were 
stable at approximately 6.7 million vehicles, group 
sales volumes increased by an excellent 20% 
compared to 2012 levels and gross profit per 
unit increased by 3.6%. This was a very positive 
performance, particularly taking into account the 
strong increases in the previous year. We have 
continued to follow a robust stocking policy to 
deliver increased stock turn as well as increasing 
our resource for sourcing good quality used car 
stock. These policies have been in place for some 
time now and it is encouraging to see that we are 
continuing to improve volumes and margins. A 
further factor, which is helping to improve used 
car volumes, is the increasing number of leads 
being generated from the group’s website, which 
have increased by 20% compared to last year. 
This is an area in which we shall continue to invest 
so that our website maintains its position as one 
of the best in the industry.
We continue to believe that the used car market 
represents a significant opportunity for the group. 
By continuing to follow our policies, which have 
resulted in this success, we expect to take 
advantage of the stable market conditions in the 
used car sector to continue to improve volumes 
and margins.
Aftersales
Turnover in the important area of aftersales 
increased by 4% and this has benefited from 
an increase in the vehicle parc of cars under 
three years old, a trend which will continue 
due to the increase in the new car market. This 
was accompanied by an increase in margin 
from 40.2% to 41.6%. This is a positive result 
which demonstrates the success of our continued 
investment in technology and procedures to 
further improve customer retention and average 
sales value per customer visit. In particular, we 
have made a number of further improvements to 
our electronic vehicle health check system across 
the whole motor division. Sales of service plans, 
where customers commit to longer term contracts 
for vehicle servicing, which improves customer 
FPS Distribution Centre, 
Sheffield L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
15
compared to £11.1 million in the previous year. 
Our parts division continues to make a significant 
contribution to group earnings where it represents 
25% of group profit before tax and also produces 
a consistent and relatively high net margin of 6%.
FPS, our national warehouse distributor of quality 
branded automotive parts, is the largest company 
in the parts division and represents almost 75% 
of divisional turnover. Turnover increased by 6% 
with profit before tax increasing by a similar 
amount. The increase in turnover resulted from 
active pricing management leading to higher 
product volumes in conjunction with new product 
development and range extension. The business 
continues to benefit from efficiency improvements 
particularly in relation to process improvement 
projects.
Apec Braking, the aftermarket leader in the UK for 
‘dry’ braking (pads and discs), had a difficult year 
in 2012 due to reduced demand, resulting from 
significant competition in the market, particularly 
from lower cost, lower quality products. I 
am therefore pleased to report an improved 
performance for Apec with turnover increasing by 
8% compared to the prior year. Demand for core 
products was stable and a secondary tier braking 
product was introduced in the period, which 
helped to secure key customers and protect 
the business from lower priced competitors. 
The increased gross profit, together with careful 
overhead control, resulted in an excellent 
improvement in profit before tax which was 11% 
higher than the previous year.
BTN Turbo, the UK’s leading distributor of 
turbochargers and supplier of related value added 
services, continued to experience competitive 
trading conditions. However, the focus on 
developing business with key customers and 
the expansion of recently introduced and new 
product lines resulted in an increase in turnover 
of 2% compared to the prior year. This was 
accompanied by an improvement in margins 
which, combined with good overhead control 
resulted in an improvement in profit before tax 
of 4%. Whilst the sector remains competitive, 
the business continues to pursue development 
opportunities within the turbo and ancillary 
products area of the market.
GROUP OUTLOOK
The group has made a good start to the current 
financial year and we continue to outperform the 
new retail car market. We have a healthy order 
book for the delivery of new cars in the important 
month of March and aftersales continues to 
perform well, with the result that the group is 
ahead of both budget and prior year. We therefore 
expect the result for the first quarter to be ahead 
of both budget and last year.
The new car market is expected to show further 
growth in 2014 and the used car market is stable. 
This, together with the group’s strong performance 
in 2013 and the previous four years, provide a firm 
foundation on which to deliver further growth 
in the current year. The continuing increase in 
the vehicle parc of cars less than three years 
old provides further opportunities for increasing 
revenue in the high margin aftersales sector of 
our business. These factors, together with the 
broad base of our franchise representation leave 
us very well positioned for future growth. The 
acquisition of Shields and Chipperfield Land 
Rover should make a good contribution this year 
and we continue to focus on the areas in which 
we can improve the performance of the group’s 
franchised outlets, such as used car sales. As 
in previous years we continue to target selective 
acquisitions to further improve our franchise 
representation.
The parts division has made good progress with 
increased profits, which together with continued 
investment in new product lines, improved facilities 
and systems, leaves the business in a stronger 
position for further growth and development. We 
also continue to seek appropriate acquisition 
targets in the parts aftermarket.
The group balance sheet continues to be 
strengthened by strong operational cash flow. 
We have substantial headroom in our new and 
increased bank facilities with net debt continuing 
to be closely controlled and at a lower level than 
both budget and the start of 2013. This provides 
secure funding capacity for several years and 
financial security to grow the business through 
further strategic acquisitions in both the motor 
and parts divisions.
Andy Bruce 
Chief Executive 
5 March 2014
“The group 
has made a 
good start to 
the current 
financial year 
and we continue 
to outperform 
the new retail 
car market.”
ANDY BRUCE, 
Chief Executive
2 01 3 REVIEW
L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
15
Nissan GT-R L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
16
“ Gross profit of £336 million was £32 million higher than 
the previous year, with the growth coming from new and 
used cars as well as acquisitions.”
 ROBIN GREGSON, Finance Director
2 01 3 REVIEW
Maserati Ghibli L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
17
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S 
REVIEW
GROUP RESULTS
Turnover increased by 19.4% to £2.46 billion 
compared to £2.06 billion last year, with strong 
growth from new and used cars. Gross profit 
of £336 million was £32 million higher than the 
previous year, with the growth coming from 
new and used cars as well as acquisitions. 
The gross margin of 13.6% was slightly lower 
compared to the prior year of 14.7%, which 
is due to the increased volumes of cars sold 
in the year, which by nature of their higher 
sales value and lower margin have the effect 
of reducing the overall margin. The operating 
margin was 2.4%, the same as last year. 
Overheads increased by £23.4 million in the 
year, primarily due to the higher turnover and 
acquisitions.*Adjusted profit from operations 
increased by 19% to £58.4 million, compared 
to £49.2 million in 2012.
Net interest costs reduced by 8% to £10.3 
million compared to £11.2 million in 2012. 
Interest on group borrowings is based initially on 
floating interest rates supplemented with interest 
rate hedges. The term loan was fully covered by 
interest rate hedges at the start of the year but 
the largest hedge, with a capital value of £50 
million, expired on 28 February 2013, which had 
a positive impact on the interest charge for the 
year. We continue to have £30 million of hedges 
which were established in 2007, when interest 
rates were significantly higher than current 
levels. These have the effect of increasing the 
interest charge so that we do not get the full 
benefit of the low base rate which is currently 
applicable in the UK.
The pension charge for the year of £2.7 million 
has been calculated in accordance with the 
updated accounting standard IAS 19 (Revised). 
The adoption of this new accounting standard 
has resulted in an increase in the charge for the 
year of £1.5 million, compared to the charge last 
year of £1.2 million. The comparative figures 
for 2012 have now been re-stated to comply 
with the new accounting standard which has 
increased the cost for 2012 from £1.2 million to 
£2.2 million.
Key financial highlights are summarised below:
• *adjusted profit before tax for the year 
increased by 27% to £48.1 million, from 
£38.0 million last year, which is the highest 
trading result to date for the company;
• profit before tax was £43.9 million compared 
to a profit before tax in the previous year of 
£34.3 million, an increase of 28%;
• profit after tax was £36.2 million, an increase 
of 38% compared to £26.3 million in 2012;
• this resulted in an increase of 37% in earnings 
per share of 9.28p compared to 6.77p in the 
prior year and *adjusted earnings per share 
of 10.36p compared to 7.67p in the prior 
year, an increase of 35%.
TAXATION
The tax charge for the year of £7.7 million 
compares to a tax charge of £8.0 million in the 
prior year and reflects a charge of 17.5% of profit 
before tax. This is lower than the standard rate of 
corporation tax of 23% as it reflects a reduction 
in the rate at which deferred tax is calculated 
from 23% to 20% in line with the reduction in UK 
Corporation Tax to this rate.
CASH FLOW AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Cash generated from operations for the year 
was £76.5 million, an increase of 16% compared 
to the operating cash flow in 2012 of £66.1 
million. Working capital reduced by £8.8 million, 
including a £1.0 million increase relating to 
acquisitions, with an increase in creditors of 
£102.6 million, which offset the increase in stock 
and debtors of £92.8 million. Capital expenditure 
was £16.5 million compared to £15.3 million 
the previous year and proceeds from the sale 
of properties and dealership businesses were 
£12.7 million (2012: £4.9 million), so net capital 
expenditure was £3.8 million. The majority of 
capital expenditure was on new or improved 
premises for dealerships. As referred to in the 
Strategic and Operational Review, during the 
year we acquired two Land Rover dealerships 
in Glasgow and Hertfordshire as well as a VW 
Commercial Vehicle dealership in Glasgow, for a 
total cash consideration of £19.4 million.
The strong operational cash flow allowed us to 
make further reductions in bank loans where 
repayments of £7.5 million were made during 
the year, the same amount as repaid in 2012. 
Net debt decreased by £5.1 million in the year, 
compared to an increase of £8.7 million in the 
previous year. This reduction resulted in net 
borrowings of £43.1 million at 31 December 
2013 compared to £48.2 million at the start of 
the year, net debt being calculated as gross bank 
borrowings less cash balances.
2 01 3 REVIEW
(*Adjusted before amortisation 
of intangible assets, debt issue 
costs and pension costs)
“profit before 
tax was 
£43.9 million 
compared to a 
profit before tax 
in the previous 
year of £34.3 
million, an 
increase of 28%”
ROBIN GREGSON, 
Finance Director L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
18
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND FINANCING
Our bank facilities were recently renewed and 
increased on 7 February 2014 and remain in 
place until March 2018. The facilities are with 
a group of five banks being Barclays, HSBC, 
Lloyds, RBS and Yorkshire Bank and consist of 
a term loan of £50 million and a revolving credit 
facility of £90 million. There is also the potential 
to increase the term loan by up to an additional 
£30 million to fund future acquisitions. Interest is 
charged on both loans at a margin of between 
1.4% and 2.35% above LIBOR, depending on 
the ratio of net bank debt to EBITDA. These 
facilities are subject to half yearly covenant tests 
on interest cover and net bank debt to EBITDA. 
The covenant tests are set at levels that provide 
sufficient headroom and flexibility for the group 
until maturity of the facilities in March 2018.
At 31 December 2013, total facilities were 
£96.25 million of which £43.1 million, net of 
cash balances, was being utilised. The new 
bank facilities, together with the group’s strong 
operational cash flow, indicate that the group 
has sufficient facilities available to fund its 
operations and allow for future expansion. At 31 
December 2013, gearing was 19% compared 
to 24% at 31 December 2012 and net debt 
to EBITDA was 0.6 compared to 0.8 last year. 
The group’s underlying profitability and strong 
cash flow should result in further reductions in 
borrowing in the future and help ensure that the 
level of borrowing remains under control and is 
at a reasonable level in relation to net assets. 
Further information on the going concern basis 
of preparation of the accounts is included in note 
1 to this announcement.
PROPERTY PORTFOLIO
The group has a policy of investing in freehold 
and long leasehold property as the preferred 
means of providing premises for the car 
dealerships, where possible. As a result, we have 
a significant and valuable portfolio of freehold 
and long leasehold properties, where the net 
book value at 31 December 2013 was £185.4 
million compared to £181.4 million last year. 
Of this amount £0.5 million has been disclosed 
within current assets as assets held for sale as 
there is an expectation that these properties 
will be sold within 12 months. Short leasehold 
properties had a value of £6.5 million (2012: £6.2 
million).
DIVIDENDS
In our interim report, we indicated that due to 
the encouraging results and strong financial 
position of the group, the interim dividend would 
be increased by 10%, which followed the 29% 
increase in the dividend delivered over the 
previous two years and continues our policy 
of increasing the dividend provided there is 
satisfactory growth in profitability. The interim 
dividend of 0.88p per ordinary share was paid 
on 29 November 2013 and we are proposing 
a final dividend of 1.7p per share, giving a total 
2 01 3 REVIEW
“The new 
bank facilities, 
together 
with the 
group’s strong 
operational cash 
flow, indicate 
that the group 
has sufficient 
facilities 
available 
to fund its 
operations and 
allow for future 
expansion.”
ROBIN GREGSON, 
Finance Director L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
19
of valuation can have a significant effect on 
the calculated deficit, hence the movement in 
the calculated deficit can be subject to high 
levels of volatility. The board continues to look 
at its options to reduce both the annual cost of 
operating both schemes and what actions can 
be taken to reduce the deficit on the schemes, 
thereby reducing exposure to movements in 
these liabilities and reducing the deficit over the 
medium and longer term.
Robin Gregson
Finance Director
5 March 2014
2 01 3 REVIEW
L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
19
Mercedes-Benz of Gatwick
Lexus RC
dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 
of 2.58p per share (2012: 2.35p). This represents 
an increase in the total dividend for the year of 
10%. The final dividend is subject to shareholder 
approval at the Annual General Meeting and will 
be payable on 4 June 2014. The final dividend 
will represent a cash outflow of £6.6 million, 
which gives a total dividend for the year of £10.0 
million.
PENSION SCHEMES
The group operates two defined benefit pension 
schemes both of which are closed to entry for 
new members and also closed to future accrual. 
Whilst the asset values of the schemes have 
increased during the year, the valuation of the 
liabilities increased by a similar amount so the net 
deficit included in the balance sheet remained 
unchanged. The assessment of valuation of 
the pension schemes is based on several 
key assumptions prescribed by accounting 
standards and over which the directors have 
very little control. As a result, the calculation 
which estimates the potential liabilities of the 
schemes can increase or decrease the liabilities 
due to factors that have no relation or relevance 
to the trading results of the group.
The impact of these factors is that the combined 
value of the deficits of both schemes has not 
changed in the year and the total deficit after 
deferred tax, is now £35.3 million (2012: £34.6 
million). Relatively small changes in the bases  L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
20
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ANDREW BRUCE    |   Chief Executive 
Joined the Group in 2000 and appointed to the Board in 2002.  
Andy was appointed as Managing Director of the Motor Division  
in March 2010 and Chief Operating Officer in March 2013.  
Andy became Group Chief Executive on 1 January 2014.
NIGEL McMINN   |   Managing Director - Motor Division
Joined the Group and appointed to the Board in August 2013,  
as Managing Director of Lookers Motor Division. Nigel is a Chartered  
Accountant, latterly as Chief Executive of Benfield Motor Group and  
previously in senior positions with Pendragon plc and Reg Vardy plc.
NEIL DAVIS   |   Managing Director - Parts Division
Neil joined the Group in 2004 following the acquisition of FPS.  
Appointed to the Board in 2011. Neil is Managing Director of the  
Lookers Parts Division and has been Managing Director of FPS  
since 2005 having joined in 2000.
ROBIN GREGSON   |   Finance Director
Chartered Accountant. Joined the Group in May 2009.   
Previously Group Finance Director of Cardpoint plc  
and CD Bramall plc, whom he joined from Deloitte. L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
21
 *Senior Independent Director  † Member of the Audit Committee 
¥ Member of the Remuneration Committee  ∆ Member of the Nomination Committee
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
JOHN BROWN * † ¥ ∆  
Appointed in May 2005.  
Chartered Certified Accountant.  
Currently Chairman of Henry Boot plc.  
Until July 2005 he was Chief Executive of 
Speedy Hire plc, a company he founded in 
1977 which is the market leader in its field.
BILL HOLMES † ¥ ∆
Appointed in June 2008.                
Previously managing partner of the Leeds 
office of BDO Stoy Hayward, whom he joined 
in 2002 from Arthur Andersen where he had 
been a partner since 1988. Prior to joining 
Arthur Anderson he qualified as an Inspector      
of Taxes with HM Revenue & Customs.          
RICHARD WALKER 
Appointed in February 2014.       
Previously an Executive Director of Talk Talk. 
Prior to Talk Talk’s demerger with Carphone 
Warehouse Group plc, Richard spent 18 years 
with the retailer and held various positions 
including Managing Director for Europe and 
COO of the UK Business.
PHIL WHITE   |   Chairman ¥ ∆ 
Appointed in September 2006.  
Chief Executive of National Express for  
10 years until 2007. He is also Chairman  
of Kier Group plc and The Unite Group plc 
and a Non-Executive Director of  
Stagecoach Group plc.
TONY BRAMALL 
Appointed in June 2006.  
Chairman and Director of CD Bramall plc  
until February 2004. 22 23
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Financial 
Statements 2013 22 23
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Report
The Directors are pleased to submit their report which includes the Statements on Corporate Governance and the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
1. ACTIVITIES
 The main activities of the Group are the sale, hire and maintenance of motor vehicles and motorcycles, including the sale of 
tyres, oil, parts and accessories.
2. STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW
 An analysis of the functional performance of the group, is provided on pages 5 to 19. The main financial KPIs of the group are 
revenue, profit before tax, earnings per share and gearing. The additional information required to be disclosed in the Strategic 
and Operational Review is detailed below.
 Corporate Social Responsibility, Human Rights and Diversity
 The group has a long-standing Corporate and Social Responsibility agenda and further details of this are included on page 33 
of our annual report.  We are also very conscious of human rights issues within the company and the key area that would impact 
our business would be across our supply chain.  All of our directly employed staff are based in the UK or the Republic of Ireland 
and are covered by UK and Irish employment law.  Our supply chain in the motor division is predominantly the major international 
motor manufacturers who clearly take these issues very seriously as well.  Our parts division sources from many suppliers who 
are producing parts to original equipment standards and our specialist team of buyers take full account of all quality matters 
including working conditions of their suppliers.
 The UK Corporate Governance Code includes a recommendation that boards should consider the benefits of diversity, including 
gender when making board appointments.  The Board recognises the importance of gender balance and considers this issue 
amount the wider issues of diversity where the most important requirement is to ensure that there is an appropriate range of 
experience, balance of skills and background on the Board.  We will continue to make changes to the composition of the Board 
irrespective of gender or any form of discrimination so that the best candidate is appointed.
 
 Mandatory Carbon Reporting
 The company is aware of, and supports, the new carbon reporting requirements.  Separately, the company reports each year 
to the Environment Agency under the government’s Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) scheme.  The mandatory reporting 
period for CRC is April to March.  It is the intention of the company to align the new carbon reporting period with those of CRC 
and consequently will issue its first report on carbon footprint in its 2015 Annual Report covering the period April 2013 to March 
2014.
 
 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
 The group’s business activities, financial condition, results of operations or the company’s share price could be affected by any 
or all of the following principal risks or uncertainties:
 
 Global Economy
 The new and used car markets are influenced by general economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, fuel prices, 
indirect taxation, the cost and availability of credit and other factors which affect levels of consumer confidence. The demand 
for new cars is cyclical, which in some years will lead to reduced margins caused by oversupply. This could have an adverse 
impact on the earnings of the group, although it is likely that this would be mitigated by potential increases in both the used car 
market and the aftersales market as customers substitute nearly new for new cars, or spend more keeping their old vehicles 
roadworthy. Despite the general uncertainty in the economy in recent years, the group’s business has proved to be resilient 
against this background and has continued to be profitable.
 Manufacturers’ Financial Stability
 The group relies on its manufacturer partners for a significant proportion of its revenues and profits. The failure of a manufacturer 
could have a significant impact on the short-term profitability of a retailer partner. The group has attempted to mitigate this risk 
by having trading relationships with a large number of manufacturers, so that the impact of any one manufacturer failing would 
be reduced.
 Liquidity and Financing
 The group uses a number of methods to fund its day to day business.  These methods are (i) bank borrowings by way of committed 
borrowing facilities (Banking facilities of £140.0 million, maturing March 2018); (ii) from manufacturer and third party finance houses 
through uncommitted stocking facilities to fund the purchase of stock; and (iii) from suppliers by way of trade credit. A withdrawal 
of any of these financing facilities or a failure to renew them as they expire could lead to a significant reduction in the trading ability 
of the group. However the group’s balance sheet has been strengthened significantly over the past five years and this together with 
the renewal of the group’s banking facilities in 2014, provides sufficient liquidity and funding. 24 25
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Report
 2.  STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW  (continued)
 Exchange Rates
 The group is affected by currency fluctuations to the extent that a large proportion of our manufacturer partners either source parts 
or manufacture vehicles overseas. The relationship of the Euro against Sterling is considered to be the primary factor that could 
impact on this either to a beneficial or negative effect. The Board is aware of the uncertainties and seeks to mitigate this by ensuring 
the group retains a broad mix of the major manufacturers, both UK and overseas, to limit the effect.
 Block Exemption Aftersales / General Exemption Sales
 The franchise agreement legislation for the automotive sector changed in June 2013. Aftersales agreements continue to be 
legislated by a Block Exemption, dictating that aftersales businesses meeting manufacturers qualitative standards criteria have 
an entitlement to represent the brands aftersales service and parts franchise.
 Sales agreements are granted by car manufacturers based on standards, but agreements are restricted to territories granted 
by manufacturers, who also determine choice of partner, enabling them to restrict the number of outlets any dealer can hold or 
entry into the sales franchise.
 By continuing to focus on providing excellent customer facilities, excellent customer service and providing high level 
representation for the group’s manufacturer partners, current business relationships will be maintained, providing opportunities 
for selective growth.
 
 Competitive Nature of the Market
 The motor vehicle distribution market is highly competitive and comprises a small number of large dealer networks, similar to 
Lookers, down to a large number of much smaller operators. In addition, the market includes internet-based dealers and private 
individuals. The franchised businesses also compete in the aftersales market which comprises similar franchised businesses, 
supply and fit chains, and a large number of small independent garages and bodyshops. 
 The market therefore offers customers different options depending upon price and quality of service they wish to take, with 
owners of new and nearly new vehicles tending to use the franchised businesses and owners of older vehicles tending towards 
the smaller independent provider. The group’s franchised businesses rely on the quality of their customer service and the ability 
to adjust pricing, enabling them to react to local competitive conditions.
 The parts distribution business operates in a very competitive market place, dominated by a few large players. The differentiator 
in this market is the quality of customer service offered by the group’s businesses, which continues to give the competitive edge 
where price differences would not be enough.
 Government Legislation
 In addition to franchise regulation rules noted above, changes to the Government’s transport policy could adversely affect the 
group’s profitability if, as a result, customers choose to use alternative forms of transport.
 Information Systems
 The group is dependent upon a number of business critical systems which, if interrupted for any length of time, could have a 
material effect on the efficient running of the group’s businesses. The Board has implemented a series of contingency plans which 
would enable the group to resume operations within a short space of time, thus mitigating the likelihood of material loss.
 Manufacturers’ Influence
 The group’s activities are also influenced by manufacturers in other ways. The timing, frequency and efficiency of new 
model roll-outs and changes in consumers’ perception of these models and brands could materially affect the group’s 
business. Similarly, manufacturers use a series of incentive schemes to support new car sales, warranty programmes 
etc. and changes or discontinuation of these schemes could also affect the group’s business. By representing over thirty 
marques, the group believes that this diversity reduces the impact to the group that manufacturers’ influence could cause. 
3. DIVIDENDS AND SHARES
  Ordinary shares of 5p each.
 An interim dividend of 0.88p per ordinary share was paid on 30 November 2013 (2012: 0.8p). The Directors are recommending 
a final dividend of 1.70p per ordinary share (2012: 1.55p) which will be payable on 4 June 2014 following approval at the 
Annual General Meeting, bringing the total dividend for 2013 to 2.58p (2012: 2.35p). 24 25
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Report
4. DIRECTORS
 The following were Directors of the company at the end of the financial year and thereafter. Their interests in the issued 
ordinary share capital of the company were as follows: 
 31.12.13 31.12.12
   Number Number
 D. C. A. Bramall  73,487,636 94,337,637
 J. E. Brown  98,318 98,318 
 A. C. Bruce  502,086 367,086
 N. A. Davis  83,345 63,345
 R. A. Gregson  217,815 217,815
 W. Holmes  36,666 36,666 
 P. Jones (retired 31 December 2013) 3,020,253 3,020,253
 N. J. McMinn (appointed 19 August 2013) - -
 R. S. Walker (appointed 4 February 2014) - -
 P. M. White  53,716 53,716
 
 Details of Directors’ share options are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
 All holdings are beneficial.
 There was no change in the interests of the Directors in shares or share options of the company between 31 December  
 2013 and 5 March 2014.
 The mid-market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2013 was 121.0p and the range during the year was 73.0p to      
131.5p.
 P . Jones retired from the Board on 31 December 2013. R. S. Walker was appointed to the Board on 4 February 2014.
 
 Directors retiring by rotation are A. C. Bruce and R. A. Gregson and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. D. C. A. 
Bramall, J. E. Brown, W. Holmes, N. A. Davis and P . M. White will all retire in accordance with paragraph D of Article 67 of 
the Articles of Association and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. N. J. McMinn and R. S. Walker will retire in 
accordance with paragraph B of Article 64 of the Articles of Association and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.     
 There are no other contracts with the company or its subsidiaries in which a Director of the company has any interest, other 
than service contracts (Executive Directors) or letters of appointment (Non-Executive Directors).
 The company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the 
year and remain in force at the date of this report.
5. APPROVAL OF THE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
 The Directors’ Remuneration Report will be laid before the Annual General Meeting for adoption as a separate resolution from 
the Auditor’s Report and the company’s accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013.
 
6. CAPITAL STRUCTURE
 Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the company’s issued share capital 
during the year are shown in note 24.  The company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.  
 There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general 
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. The Directors are not aware of any agreements between 
holders of the company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. 
 No person has any special rights of control over the company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
 With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the company is governed by its Articles of Association, the 2010 
UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.  The Articles themselves may be amended by 
special resolution of the shareholders. The powers of Directors are described in the Main Board Terms of Reference, copies 
of which are available on request, and are described in the Chairman’s Statement on Corporate Governance on page 29.
 Under its Articles of Association, the company has authority to issue 480,000,000 ordinary shares.
 There are also a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company such 
as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees’ share plans. None of these are 
considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the group as a whole.   26 27
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Report
7. EMPLOYEES
 Employees are encouraged to discuss with management any matters which they are concerned about and factors affecting 
the group. In addition, the Board takes account of employees’ interests when making decisions. Suggestions from employees 
aimed at improving the group’s performance are welcomed.
 A significant number of employees are remunerated partly by profit-related bonus schemes.
 The group has a dedicated Intranet site “Insight” which keeps employees up to date with group developments and activities. 
Communicating in this manner ensures a consistent message.
 Long service awards were made during the year to those staff with 25 years’ continuous service. Special awards were also 
made to those staff reaching 40 and 50 years’ service.
 All employment policies have been updated to conform with current legislation.
 It is the group’s policy to encourage career development for all employees and to help staff achieve job satisfaction and 
increase personal motivation.
8. ETHICAL EMPLOYMENT
 It is the group’s policy to offer equal opportunities to disabled persons applying for vacancies and provide them with the 
same opportunities for employment, training, career development and promotion as are available to all employees, within the 
limitations of their aptitude and abilities. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure 
that their employment with the group continues and appropriate arrangements are made.
 Employment within the group is offered on the basis of the person’s ability to work and not on the basis of race, individual 
characteristics, creed or political opinion.
9. SPECIAL BUSINESS OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
 (a)  Renewal of Directors’ power to allot shares
  The Special Business of the Annual General Meeting includes an Ordinary Resolution (Resolution 15) which seeks to 
  renew the authority conferred on the Directors at last year’s Annual General Meeting to allot shares.
 
 This authority, which will expire on 29 November 2015 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the company’s next Annual General 
Meeting, is to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into ordinary shares up to an 
aggregate nominal value equal to £6,471,457 (representing 129,429,150 ordinary shares), being approximately 33% of the 
company’s issued ordinary share capital as at 5 March 2014 (being the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this 
document). As at 5 March 2014, the company did not hold any shares in the company in treasury. 
 
 The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority. The purpose of giving the Directors this authority is to 
maintain the company’s flexibility to take advantage of any appropriate opportunities that may arise.
 (b)  Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights
  The Special Business of the Annual General Meeting includes a Special Resolution (Resolution 16) which seeks to renew 
  the authority conferred on the Directors at last year’s Annual General Meeting to issue equity securities of the company 
  for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
 The Companies Act 2006 requires that, subject to certain exceptions, before directors of a company can issue any new 
shares for cash, the new shares must be offered first to the existing shareholders proportionately. This provision can create 
considerable administrative difficulty, particularly if a rights issue is made, because of the entitlements to fractions of shares 
which may arise and because of the restrictions imposed on the company’s ability to offer new shares to certain overseas 
shareholders by the laws of relevant overseas jurisdictions.
 This resolution seeks authority to disapply such statutory pre-emption rights. Other than in connection with a rights issue 
or other similar issue, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal value of £970,719 
(representing 19,414,372 ordinary shares), being 5% of the company’s issued ordinary share capital as at 5 March 2014 (being 
the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this document).
 This authority will continue to provide the Directors with flexibility to act in the best interests of the shareholders when 
opportunities arise.
 
 The authority the Directors are seeking will expire on 29 November 2015 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the company’s next 
Annual General Meeting. 
 The Board confirms its intention to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-Emption Group Statement of Principles regarding 
cumulative usage of authorities of no more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital within a rolling three year period. 26 27
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Report
9. SPECIAL BUSINESS OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  (continued)
 (c)  Purchase of own shares
  The Special Business of the Annual General Meeting includes a Special Resolution (Resolution 17) which seeks to renew 
  the authority granted to the Directors at last year’s Annual General Meeting and to give the company authority to make 
  market purchases of its own ordinary shares as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
 The resolution limits the number of ordinary shares the company can buy to a maximum of 38,828,745 shares representing 
10% of the company’s issued ordinary share capital as at 5 March 2014 (being the latest practicable date prior to the printing 
of this document). The authority also sets maximum and minimum prices.
 
 As at 5 March 2014, the company does not have any outstanding warrants or options to subscribe for equity shares.
 The company would only buy shares on the London Stock Exchange. The authority to repurchase ordinary shares will, if 
approved by the shareholders, only be exercised after careful consideration by the Board, and if such exercise would result 
in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the shareholders generally. Shares so purchased 
would be cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly.
 The Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority but wish to retain the flexibility to do so in the future.
 The authority sought will expire on 29 November 2015 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the company’s next Annual General 
Meeting.
 (d)  Notice of General Meetings
  The Special Business of the Annual General Meeting includes a Special Resolution (Resolution 18) which seeks to renew 
  the authority given at the last Annual General Meeting to call general meetings on 14 days notice instead of 21 days.
 The company currently has power under its Articles of Association to call general meetings (other than an annual general 
meeting) on 14 clear days’ notice and would like to preserve this ability.  In order to be able to do so, shareholders must first 
approve the calling of meetings on 14 days’ notice.  This resolution seeks such approval.  The approval will be effective until 
the company’s next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
 The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for general meetings, but only where the flexibility is 
merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of the shareholders as a whole.
10. DONATIONS
 Charitable donations amounted to £22,256 (2012: £12,780). No political donations were made (2012: £nil).
11. AUDITOR
 In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the company at the date when this report was approved:
 •  so far as each is aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by the Companies Act 2006) of which   
 the company’s auditor is unaware; and
 •  each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any   
 relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of S418 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, their 
re-appointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. 28 29
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
12. SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY
 The group does not formally follow the better payment practice code issued by the Department of Trade and Industry because, 
in line with industry practice, manufacturers insist upon direct access to our bank accounts and they take funds to pay for both 
vehicles and parts when they fall due. Other suppliers are generally paid in accordance with their terms of trading.
 At 31 December 2013, the trade creditors of the group and the company represented 28 and 58 days (2012: 29 and 50 days) 
purchases respectively.
13. DERIVATIVES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 The group’s treasury activities are operated within policies and procedures approved by the Board, which include defined 
controls on the use of financial instruments managing the group’s risk. The major financial risks faced by the group relate to 
interest rates and funding. The policies agreed for managing these financial risks have remained the same since the beginning 
of the period under review, and are summarised below.
 The group finances its operations by a mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings, stock financing and commercial paper. 
To reduce the group’s exposure to movements in interest rates, the group seeks to ensure that it has an appropriate balance 
between fixed and floating rate borrowings. The group uses interest rate swaps and collars in order to manage its exposure 
to interest rate risk; all such arrangements are approved by the Board in line with its treasury policies. 
 The group seeks to ensure continuity of funding by taking out certain borrowings which are repayable in instalments over 
periods of at least three years. Short-term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
 The group has no significant exposure to foreign currency, nor does it undertake any trading in financial instruments.
 Refer to notes 16, 20, 21 and 32 of the notes to the Financial Statements for further information in this area.
14. SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
 On 5 March 2014 the following shareholders, so far as the Directors are aware, had an interest in 3% or more of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the company:
   At 5 March 2014  At 31 December 2013
 D. C. A. Bramall and Family 73,487,636  shares (18.93%) 73,487,636  shares (18.93%)
 Standard Life Investments 27,153,577  shares (6.99%) 26,153,577  shares (6.74%)
 Odey Asset Management LLP 26,208,165  shares (6.75%) 31,495,648  shares (8.11%)
 Schroders Investment Management Limited 19,396,492  shares (5.00%) 19,396,492  shares (5.00%)
 J. P . Morgan Investment Management 16,859,081  shares (4.34%) 16,525,854  shares (4.26%)
 Black Rock 13,734,774  shares (3.54%) 14,469,752  shares (3.73%)
 Old Mutual Global Investors 11,938,000  shares (3.07%) 7,436,000    shares (1.92%)
 J. O. Hambro Capital Management 11,771,852  shares (3.03%) 13,771,102  shares (3.55%)
The Directors have not been notified of any other holders of 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital.
 By Order of the Board
 G. MacGeekie
 Company Secretary
 5 March 2014
Directors’ Report 28 29
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Board of Directors is collectively accountable to the company’s shareholders for good corporate governance and is 
committed to achieve compliance with the principles of corporate governance set out in the 2012 UK corporate governance 
code issued by the Financial Reporting Council (the “Code”). Throughout 2013 the company has been in compliance with the 
provisions set out in the Code.
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council (“the Code”) for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Board have reviewed the contents of this report and consider the document to be fair, balanced, understandable and an 
accurate representation of the current position of the business. The basis for this view is that all of the Directors are furnished 
with the requisite information to perform their duties and are provided access to key members of management as they require.  
The Board meet regularly and are given adequate time to probe, debate and challenge business performance as and when they 
consider it necessary to do so. The Board have also discussed the detail of the financial results with the Audit Committee and 
are satisfied they have been prepared appropriately.  Having gained a thorough understanding of the business each member 
has also had the opportunity to review and influence this report and as such have concluded in line with the statement above.
 
The Board 
The Board of Directors at the start of the financial year under review comprised four Executive Directors and four Non-Executive 
Directors. P . Jones retired from the Board on 31 December 2013 and N. J. McMinn was appointed a Director on 19 August 2013. 
J. E. Brown, P . M. White and W. Holmes are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors. R. S. Walker was appointed 
a Director on 4 February 2014.
The Code requires a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors such that no individual or small group of individuals can 
dominate the Board’s decision-making process. The number and quality of the Non-Executive Directors on the Board, with their 
combination of diverse backgrounds and expertise, ensures this principle is met.
The Board has a documented schedule of matters reserved for its decision which includes the following:
- agreeing objectives, policies and strategies, and monitoring the performance of the executive management;
- approval of the group’s strategic plans and business plans;
- approval of annual and interim results;
- deciding on major changes in organisation and the shape of the group, including entry into new fields of operation and  
  departure from those which are no longer considered to be appropriate; and
- approving major individual capital projects.
The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information. Monthly financial 
information is provided to the Directors. Regular and ad hoc reports and presentations are circulated, with all Board and 
committee papers being issued in advance of meetings by the Company Secretary. In addition to formal Board meetings, the 
Chairman maintains regular contact with the Chief Executive and the other Directors to discuss specific issues. In furtherance 
of their duties, the Directors have full access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional 
advice at the company’s expense. The Board believes that given the experience and skills of its particular Directors, the 
identification of general training needs is best left to the individual’s discretion. If any particular development need is identified 
through the Board’s formal appraisal process or by an individual Director, the company makes the necessary resources available.
Director Roles 
P . M. White is the Non-Executive Chairman and A. C. Bruce is the Chief Executive. The Chairman leads the Board and the Chief 
Executive manages the group and implements the strategy and policies adopted by the Board. The division of responsibilities 
between the role of Chairman and Chief Executive has been set out in writing.
J. E. Brown is the Senior Independent Director and his prime responsibility is to provide a communication channel between 
the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors and to ensure that the views of each Non-Executive Director are given due 
consideration. The Company Secretary would minute any unresolved concerns expressed by any Director.
The company maintains appropriate directors’ and officers’ insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors.
Chairman’s Statement on Corporate Governance 30 31
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Chairman’s Statement on Corporate Governance
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT (continued)
Attendance at Meetings
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at regular Board meetings and at meetings of the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees.
Scheduled meetings held in 2013    
   Board Audit Remuneration        Nomination
Number held  11 2 3 2
Number attended     
D. C. A. Bramall   10 1* 3* -
J. E. Brown  11 2 3 2
A. C. Bruce  11 2* 1* -
N. Davis  11 - - - 
R. A. Gregson  11 2* - -
W. Holmes  11 2 3 2
P . Jones  11 2* 3* -
N. J. McMinn (from September 2013)  4 - - - 
P . M. White   11 2 3 -
 * in attendance by invitation of the Committee for all or part of the meeting.
APPOINTMENT AND SELECTION OF DIRECTORS
Appointments
The Code requires there to be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of appropriate new Directors, 
which should be made on merit and against objective criteria. The Board has an established Nominations Committee for this 
purpose and its terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary.
The Board approves the appointment and removal of Directors.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Non-Executive Directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their 
duties as Non-Executive Directors of the company. 
The service contracts of Executive Directors and the letters of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for 
inspection at the company’s registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors receive induction on their appointment to the Board as appropriate, covering matters such as the operation and activities 
of the group (including key financial and business risks to the group’s activities), the role of the Board and the matters reserved 
for its decision, the tasks and membership of the principal Board Committees, the powers delegated to those Committees, the 
Board’s governance policies and practices, and the group’s latest financial information. The training and induction process for 
Directors takes into account the development of the group and applicable governance standards. Major shareholders are offered 
the opportunity to meet new Directors as any appointments are made.
The requirement to propose Directors for re-appointment at regular intervals is met by applying the company’s Articles of 
Association. These require that at each Annual General Meeting not less than one-third of the Directors who are subject to 
retirement by rotation must retire, and that any Director, who was not appointed at either of the two previous Annual General 
Meetings and who has served as a Director for more than two years since appointment or last re-appointment, has to retire.
In accordance with the Code, each new Non-Executive Director is appointed for a specified term, being an initial period from 
appointment to the next Annual General Meeting where they will be subject to re-appointment at that meeting, for a further period 
ending not later than the Annual General Meeting held three years thereafter. There is a general assumption on the part of the 
Board that independent Non-Executive Directors will not normally be invited to stand for re-appointment after serving six years.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises P. M. White, J. E. Brown, W. Holmes, and is chaired by P. M. White.  The Committee 
reviews the size, structure and composition of the Board and Committees and makes recommendations to the Board with regard 
to any changes that are considered necessary. The Committee also reviews the time required of Non-Executive Directors. 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in the formal selection and appointment of Directors and 
considers succession planning for the Board. In considering an appointment, the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular 
appointment. In identifying suitable candidates, open advertising or external search agencies will be used by the Committee, 
where appropriate. It also considers potential candidates and recommends appointments of new Directors to the Board. The 
appointments are based on merit and made against objective criteria including the time available and commitment which will be 
required of the potential Director.
In choosing new Non-Executive Directors, the Committee starts by obtaining the views of its professional advisors. The Committee 
has the power to employ the services of such advisors as it deems necessary in order to carry out its responsibilities and may retain 
appropriate executive search consultants having prepared a job specification for the role. 30 31
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
APPOINTMENT AND SELECTION OF DIRECTORS (continued)
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes a recommendation that boards should consider the benefits of diversity, including 
gender, when making board appointments. The Board recognises the importance of gender balance and considers this issue among 
the wider issues of diversity where the most important requirement is to ensure that there is an appropriate range of experience, 
balance of skills and background on the Board.
Evaluation of Board Performance 
A formal independent evaluation exercise in relation to the Board and its Committees was undertaken in 2012 by Ffion Hague 
Independent Board Evaluation (which has no other connection with the company). This considered the balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the company on the board, its diversity including gender, how the board works together as a 
unit and other factors relevant to its effectiveness. The results of that evaluation indicated that the Board (and its Committees), 
generally, operated effectively. Certain recommendations were made as a result of this evaluation and these either have been or 
will be subsequently implemented. The evaluation of the effectiveness of individual Directors was, in the case of the Non-Executive 
Directors, carried out by the Chairman and, in the case of the Chairman, by the Non-Executive Directors, in each case taking account 
of the views of the Executive Directors. The evaluation of the effectiveness of the Executive Directors was carried out as part of the 
annual appraisal procedure by the Chief Executive in the case of the other executive Directors and by the Chairman in the case of 
the Chief Executive.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a 
reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. In 
forming this view, the Directors have reviewed trading and cash flow forecasts and have also taken into consideration that the group’s 
banking facilities remain available to them and are appropriate given the group’s current trading, medium-term plans and conditions 
in the global economy. For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
Further details surrounding the Directors’ rationale regarding the going concern assumption are included in Principal Accounting 
Policies on page 53. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises J. E. Brown and W. Holmes and throughout 2013 was chaired by J. E. Brown. The Committee met 
twice during 2013, with the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the internal and external auditors attending as required. The Audit 
Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2013. This has 
included consideration of group-wide risk assessment and of internal audit and internal control exercises undertaken throughout 
the group. The Audit Committee has also considered reports from internal and external auditors. The Audit Committee has reported 
the results of its work to the Board. The Board has considered these reports when undertaking its review of the effectiveness of the 
group’s system of internal control and have found the group’s system of internal control to be satisfactory.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the interim and year end financial 
statements, matters relating to the external audit, corporate governance matters and monitoring the group’s  internal and operational 
controls. The Audit Committee’s terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary. 
The Audit Committee has considered the arrangements for the reporting by employees of concerns about possible improprieties in 
financial reporting or other matters, as set out in the Employee Handbook, and has concluded that there is a reasonably clear and 
adequately defined system for reporting of concerns. This policy and system of reporting will be reviewed annually.
The auditor is permitted to provide non-audit services that are not, or are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor independence. 
Part of the Committee’s responsibility in relation to the external auditor is to review the nature of their independence and the extent 
of the non-audit services they provide. The report from Deloitte LLP confirming their independence and objectivity was reviewed by 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Finance Director. The level of fees paid to Deloitte LLP for non-audit services has been 
considered by the Audit Committee and is not perceived to be in conflict with auditor independence.
Deloitte LLP has been external auditor for eight years. The Audit Committee assesses and considers the frequency of changing 
auditor based on their assessment of the audit. No contractual obligations exist which restrict the Audit Committee’s choice of 
Auditor.
The Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the effectiveness of the external audit process and held independent meetings 
with the external auditor, and has reported on its conclusions to the Board. The Committee has recommended to the Board the 
re-appointment of the external auditor. Non-audit services are placed with whichever firm is believed to deliver the best value for 
money, having regard to our external auditor’s independence if Deloitte LLP were to be appointed. 
The Audit Committee provide advice to the Board on whether the annual report is fair, balanced and provides the necessary 
information shareholders require to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. In doing so the following 
issues have been addressed specifically:
•  Review of key strategic risks – the Committee Chairman conducts an annual review of key strategic risks and invites a cross section of 
company management in order to ensure that the review includes a detailed understanding of the business. The review highlights the 
key risks based on a combination of likelihood and impact and then also considers what appropriate mitigants should be implemented 
(highlights from this work are included in the Strategic Report).
Chairman’s Statement on Corporate Governance 32 33
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT  (continued)
•  Review of poor performing dealerships – as part of both the interim and full year end review process, consideration is given to potential 
goodwill and intangible asset impairments relating to poor performing locations are considered and any related impairments are provided 
for. Management will then follow up with detailed action plans to either improve dealership performance or seek an exit solution. The 
Audit Committee also review progress towards these plans at the following review. The Audit Committee is satisfied that no impairments 
are required to goodwill on intangible assets.
•  Going concern – the Finance Director provides an assessment of the company’s ability to continue to trade on a going concern basis for 
at least the next 12 months.  Forecasts are based on financial plans agreed with the Board (budgets or forecasts), the company’s most 
recent trading results, and also include a range of possible downside scenarios. The assumptions that underpin the assessments are 
considered and discussed in detail when the Audit Committee meet. The conclusion of that review is included in the Director’s Report 
section of this report.
•  Revenue recognition – a significant proportion of profitability is derived from the receipt of discounts from manufacturers and the Audit 
Committee considers the risks and controls over this, so as to be satisfied that this is not likely to be materially mis-stated.
•  Inventory valuation – the value of new and used vehicles as well as the provision for slow moving and obsolete stock can have a 
significant influence on the inventory valuation in the financial statements.  The Audit Committee has considered the company’s 
procedures and controls to reduce the risk of mis-statement in relation to inventory valuation which are satisfactory.
•  Pensions – the group operates two defined benefit pension schemes which both have an excess of liabilities over the value of assets 
owned by each scheme. The assessment of the valuation of both schemes is based on several key assumptions which can have a 
significant impact on the valuation of the deficit in each scheme.  The Audit Committee has considered the assumptions used for the 
valuation of the liabilities of the schemes and is satisfied that these are reasonable.
Internal Control
The Code requires the company to maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the 
company’s assets. The Board must review the effectiveness of the system at least annually, covering all material controls, including 
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, and report to shareholders that it has done so. The 
Turnbull Report, adopted by the UK Listing Authority, provides guidance for compliance with that part of the Code.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the 
company. Steps are being taken to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the businesses and to 
deal with areas of improvement which come to management’s and the Board’s attention. The process has been in place throughout 
the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. It is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with 
the guidelines set out in the Turnbull Report.
The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have been or are being taken to remedy such failings and weaknesses 
which it has determined to be significant from its review of the system of internal control.  This has involved considering the 
matters reported to it and developing plans and programmes that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.  The Directors 
acknowledge that they are responsible for the group’s system of internal control, for setting policy on internal control and for reviewing 
the effectiveness of internal control. The role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control. The system of internal 
control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, 
and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. In the year there have been no significant internal control issues.
The group has an internal audit function that reports to the Audit Committee. Detailed control procedures exist throughout the 
operations of the group and compliance is monitored by management, internal auditors, and, to the extent that they consider 
necessary to support their audit report, the external auditor. 
Relations with Shareholders
The company places considerable importance on communications with shareholders and responds to them on a wide range of 
issues. It has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings with major institutional shareholders, where a wide range of relevant 
issues including strategy, performance, management and governance are discussed. The Chairman makes himself available to meet 
any major shareholder, as required. 
All company announcements are posted on our website www.lookers.co.uk as soon as they are released. Our website contains 
a dedicated investor relations section, www.lookersplc.com, with an archive of past announcements and presentations, historical 
financial performance, share price data and a calendar of events.
The principal communication with private investors is through the Annual Review, the Interim Report and the Annual General Meeting. 
A presentation is made at the Annual General Meeting to facilitate greater awareness of the group’s activities. Shareholders are given 
the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and of the Chairman of each Board Committee and to meet the Directors informally 
after the meeting. Separate resolutions are proposed for each item of business and the ‘for’, ‘against’ and ‘vote withheld’ proxy votes 
cast in respect of each resolution proposed at the Meeting are counted and announced after the shareholders present have voted 
on each resolution. Notice of the Annual General Meeting is posted to shareholders at least twenty one days before the date of the 
Annual General Meeting.
P. M. White
Chairman
5 March 2014
Chairman’s Statement on Corporate Governance 32 33
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Corporate Social Responsibility Review
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT
Our Main Board of Lookers is responsible for setting the group’s strategy, values and standards regarding social, environmental 
and ethical issues. It delegates the responsibility for implementing strategy and instils values and standards throughout the group’s 
businesses. The operating companies each include social, environmental and ethical issues in their risk assessment processes. This 
enables the Main Board to ensure that any potential problems are identified and contingency strategies are in place.
Lookers and the Environment
Our activities do have an impact on the environment. The group is keen to fulfil its legal obligations on this issue and has a group-
wide environmental policy in place. The need to deal with contamination, waste oil and asbestos issues are at the forefront of the 
group’s concerns.
On a wider level, Lookers supports a number of industry initiatives and the group also engages in all environmental issues raised by 
stakeholders, consumers, suppliers, shareholders and employees.
The group aims to encourage the reduction of energy and water consumption and actively investigates employees’ suggestions to 
help reduce the amount of waste. An electrical testing monitoring regime is in force throughout the group.  Use of the latest building 
materials is made in the construction of new sites and the refurbishment of existing locations. For instance, modern heating controls 
include both timers and thermostats.
Lookers aims to improve its energy, water and fuel efficiency over the coming year throughout the group’s operations. As part of this 
policy, the group is working in partnership with a major energy management systems company to help create a better environment 
by reducing the amount of harmful emissions released into the atmosphere for everyone’s future benefit. Savings of up to 30% in 
annual heating spend can be achieved as well as producing a comfortable working environment for staff. The system is recognised 
for ISO 14001.
Lookers and Ethics
We believe that integrity in its relationships with customers, suppliers, staff, shareholders, regulatory agencies and the community is 
important and gains the respect of all its stakeholders.  Treating Customers Fairly is now embedded into the group’s ethos and will 
continue to be part of the group’s culture.
Lookers makes every effort to ensure its people are aware of these expectations and that they contribute to the high standards 
required of them. This statement, together with Lookers’ corporate values, is at the heart of how Lookers conducts its business, 
externally in its relationships with stakeholders and internally through its performance management and promotion processes.
Lookers as an Employer
People are crucial to Lookers’ success. This approach is reflected in Lookers’ policies on recruitment and retention, staff share 
scheme, staff communication, and health and safety.
Recruitment and Retention
We ensure that the group has fair employment terms for its people. Employment handbooks set out formal policies for key issues 
such as equal opportunities, disciplinary and grievance procedures, sexual, religious and racial harassment.
Lookers’ Human Resources Manager is responsible for raising employment standards and implementing best practice employment 
policies throughout the organisation. Performance reviews are conducted at least once a year and include an assessment of each 
individual’s training needs.
Lookers has a comprehensive training programme for its people which has received industry recognition in the form of national 
awards for the automotive industry.
Staff Communication
We believe that Lookers’ people have a right to be kept informed. Regular discussions take place to keep people updated and to 
seek out their ideas and opinions. 
Face-to-face dialogue between managers and staff takes place regularly; information is communicated through Lookers’ intranet site, 
which is used by the majority of employees on a regular basis. Lookers also uses newsletters and updates to keep its staff informed.
Health and Safety
We aim to do all that is reasonably practicable to ensure the health, safety and welfare of its people, and others who may be affected 
by its activities. The Main Board maintains ultimate responsibility for health and safety issues at Lookers with the manager responsible 
for the day-to-day responsibility, supported by all levels of management. This policy is defined in the group’s Health and Safety policy 
statement and all staff are issued with, or have access to, a detailed health and safety guide.
The statistics for the group, under UK Health and Safety regulations for the year ended 31 December 2013, are set out below:
 2013 2012 
Number of fatalities - -
Injuries resulting in absence over three days 7 3
Major injuries reported under RIDDOR* 4 7
Dangerous occurrences reported under RIDDOR* - -
Number of enforcement notices issued by HSE - -
Number of prohibition notices issued by HSE - -
*Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995
Lookers and the Community
Lookers are committed to playing an active role in the communities it serves. All Lookers’ businesses operate their own community 
programmes and fund raising charity events. In addition, some charities are supported at a group level such as the motor trades’ BEN. 34 35
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
INTRODUCTION
On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present our Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Remuneration Committee (the Committee) 
in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 and is split into two sections:
• the directors’ remuneration policy sets out the company’s intended policy on directors’ remuneration from 30 May 2014 and 
is subject to a binding shareholder vote at this year’s AGM and at least every third year after that; and
• the annual report on remuneration sets out payments and awards made to the directors and details the link between company 
performance and remuneration for 2013 and is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at this year’s AGM.
Save for the performance graph and table, the change in remuneration of the Chief Executive, the relative importance of the spend 
on pay, the implementation of remuneration policy in 2014, the consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors’ 
remuneration and the statement of shareholder voting at the 2013 AGM, the information set out on pages 35 to 47 (the annual 
report on remuneration) is subject to audit.
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR 2013
Annual bonus opportunities are based on the achievement of profit before tax targets. Bonuses of 100% of the maximum have 
been awarded to the executive directors in respect of 2013, which reflects the strong financial results of the Company for the year.
The long-term incentive awards made to executive directors under the Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) in 2011 will vest 
in March 2014. These awards took the form of market value share options subject to targets based on the achievement of EPS 
growth in excess of CPI over a three year performance period. The Company achieved EPS growth of 57.9% over CPI, which 
resulted in 100% of each ESOS award vesting. In addition, as EPS growth exceeded 45% over CPI the exercise price of each 
ESOS option reduced from market value to £1 in aggregate.
Peter Jones retired from the role of Chief Executive with effect from 31 December 2013. He retained his entitlement to his ESOS 
option which will vest in March 2014 and will receive his annual bonus payment for 2013.
KEY REMUNERATION DECISIONS FOR 2014
Andy Bruce was promoted to the role of Chief Executive with effect from 1 January 2014. The Committee has set his base salary 
at £350,000. From 1 January 2014 the base salaries of Robin Gregson and Nigel McMinn have been increased from £260,000 to 
£267,500. The base salary for Neil Davis has been increased from £215,000 to £221,500
In developing the remuneration policy for Executive Directors for 2014, the Committee considered the form of awards to be made 
under the ESOS in respect of the next three years. Full details are given in the implementation report.  In summary, the Committee 
decided that these awards will again be market value share options subject to EPS growth targets. In order to further incentivise 
the achievement of stretching EPS targets, the Committee again decided that the exercise price of the options may be reduced 
to £1 in aggregate if EPS growth is above a set threshold.
IN CONCLUSION
The directors’ remuneration policy which follows this annual statement sets out the Committee’s principles on remuneration for 
the future and the annual report on remuneration provides details of remuneration for 2013. 
The Committee will continue to be mindful of shareholder views and interests, and we believe that our directors’ remuneration 
policy continues to be aligned with the achievement of the company’s business objectives. We hope that we can rely on your 
votes in favour of the directors’ remuneration policy and the annual report on remuneration.
By Order of the Board
W. Holmes
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
5 March  2014 34 35
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
REMUNERATION POLICY
The policy of the Committee is to ensure that the Executive Directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the 
group’s overall performance and to provide a competitive remuneration package to Executive Directors, including long-term 
incentive plans, to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the calibre required to ensure that the group is managed successfully 
in the interests of shareholders. In addition, the Committee’s policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the 
Executive Directors should be performance related.
FUTURE POLICY TABLE
The main elements of the remuneration package of Executive Directors are set out below:
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics
Attract and retain high calibre 
Executive Directors to deliver 
strategy
Paid in 12 equal monthly 
instalments during the year
Reviewed annually to reflect 
role, responsibility and 
performance of the individual 
and the company, and to 
take into account rates of 
pay for comparable roles in 
similar companies.  When 
selecting comparators, the 
Committee has regard to 
the group’s revenue, market 
worth and business sector.
There is no prescribed 
maximum increase.
Annual rate set out in 
the annual report on 
remuneration for the current 
year and the following year.
None
BASE SALARY
Provide benefits consistent 
with role
Currently these consist of 
provision of a company 
car health insurance, life 
assurance premiums and 
the opportunity to join the 
company’s savings related 
share option scheme 
(“SAYE”).  The Committee 
reviews the level of benefit 
provision from to time and 
has the flexibility to add or 
remove benefits to reflect 
changes in market practice 
or the operational needs of 
the group.
The cost of providing 
benefits is borne by the 
Company and varies from 
time to time.
None
BENEFITS
Incentivises achievement 
of business objectives 
by providing a reward for 
performance against annual 
targets
Paid in cash after the end of 
the financial year to which it 
relates. 
Up to 110% of salary Targets based on adjusted 
profit before tax of the 
company. 
The Committee sets 
threshold and maximum 
targets on an annual basis.  
In general:
• 50% of the maximum 
bonus is payable for 
hitting the threshold 
target.
• 100% of the maximum 
bonus is payable for 
ANNUAL BONUS 36 37
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics
meeting or exceeding the 
maximum target.
A sliding scale operates 
between threshold and 
maximum performance. 
No bonus is payable where 
performance is below the 
threshold.
Payment of any bonus is 
subject to the overriding 
discretion of the Committee.
ANNUAL BONUS (continued)
Alignment of interests with 
shareholders by providing 
long-term incentives 
delivered in the form of 
shares
Grant of market value 
options under the ESOS.
Options vest at least 3 years 
from grant subject to the 
achievement of performance 
conditions and may not be 
exercised after the 10th 
anniversary of grant.
Maximum permitted holding 
of unexercised options under 
the ESOS of 400% of annual 
salary.
Growth of EPS over the 
performance period.  At grant 
the Committee sets threshold 
and maximum targets of 
EPS growth.  Vesting is 
determined as follows:
• 20% vesting if the 
threshold level of growth 
is achieved; and then a 
stepped scale is applied 
up to 
• 100% vesting if the 
maximum level of growth 
is achieved.
In addition the Committee 
may set a level of EPS 
growth such that if that level 
of growth is attained the 
aggregate exercise price 
becomes £1.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVES
Attract and retain Executive  
Directors for the long term 
by providing funding for 
retirement
A C Bruce is a member of 
the group’s defined benefit 
pension arrangement.  
Though the scheme closed 
to future accrual in 2011 Mr 
Bruce’s pension remains 
linked to his final pensionable 
salary.  This defined benefit 
pension is payable from age 
60.
All Executive Directors 
are entitled to participate 
in money purchase 
arrangements, or to receive 
a cash allowance in lieu of 
pension contributions.
Money purchase 
arrangements
20% of salary up to a 
maximum of the annual 
allowance with any excess 
payable as a salary 
supplement. 
Any such salary supplements 
are not counted for the 
purposes of determining 
bonus or LTIP levels.
None
PENSION 36 37
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE
Performance conditions
The Committee selected the performance conditions as they are central to the company’s strategy and are the key metrics used 
by the Executive Directors to oversee the operation of the business. The performance targets for the annual bonus are determined 
annually by the Committee and are typically set at a level that is above the level of the company’s forecasts.
The performance target for the annual bonus is based on adjusted profit before tax as set out in note 6 to the accounts. The 
Committee is of the opinion that this performance target is commercially sensitive for the company and that it would be therefore 
be detrimental to the company to disclose details of the target in advance. The targets will be disclosed after the end of the 
financial year in the annual report on remuneration.
The performance target for the ESOS is based on EPS as set out in note 6 to the accounts, such measure being stated before the 
amortisation of intangibles, impairment of goodwill, debt issue costs and pension costs, as referred to in note 6 to the accounts.
The Committee has the ability to adjust the targets or measurement where it considers this is necessary to achieve a fair and 
consistent measurement of the Company’s performance.
Changes from policy operating in 2013
The performance targets for the ESOS options which will vest in March 2014 were based on the growth in EPS above CPI. For 
ESOS options granted from 2014 onwards, the targets will be based solely on growth in EPS, without reference to CPI. 
Differences from remuneration policy for all employees
All employees of the company are entitled to base salary and benefits. The opportunity to earn a bonus is made available to more 
senior employees. The maximum opportunity available is based on the seniority and responsibility of the role.
Share options are only granted under the ESOS to selected senior managers and above.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYEES ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP
The Committee receives reports on an annual basis on the level of pay rises awarded across the group and takes these into 
account when determining salary increases for Executive Directors.  In addition, the Committee receives regular reports on the 
structure of remuneration for senior management in the tier below the Executive Directors and uses this information to ensure a 
consistency of approach for the most senior managers in the group.  The Committee also approves the award of any long-term 
incentives.
The Committee does not specifically invite employees to comment on the directors’ remuneration policy, but it does take note of 
any comments made by employees.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
The Chairman of the Committee consults with major shareholders from time to time to understand their expectations with regard 
to Executive Director remuneration and reports back to the Committee.  Any other concerns raised by individual shareholders 
are also considered, and the Committee also takes into account emerging best practice and guidance from major institutional 
shareholders.  Overall, no significant concerns were raised by the group’s main shareholders in relation to remuneration.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION
The Committee’s approach to recruitment remuneration is to offer a market competitive remuneration package sufficient to attract 
high calibre candidates who are appropriate to the role but without paying any more than is necessary.
Any new Executive Director’s regular remuneration package would include the same elements and be in line with the policy table 
set out earlier in this directors’ remuneration policy, including the same limits on performance related remuneration.
Where it is necessary to “buy-out” an individual’s awards of variable remuneration made by a previous employer, the Committee 
will make replacement awards through a combination of performance and non-performance related awards, reflecting the 
profile of the awards forgone. The terms of these awards will reflect those forgone so far as is possible to provide an equivalent 
opportunity, including taking into account the likelihood of meeting performance conditions.
Where an internal candidate is promoted to the Board the original grant terms and conditions of any bonus or share awards made 
before that promotion will continue to apply, as will his membership of any of the group’s pension arrangements.
Reasonable relocation and other similar expenses may be paid if appropriate. 38 39
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Provision Policy Details
Contractual 
provisions on a 
change of control of 
the Company
Other provisions 
in specific service 
contracts
Notice periods in 
Executive Directors’ 
service contracts
12 months by 
company 6 months by 
Executive Director
Executive directors 
may be required to 
work during the notice 
period
1 month by Executive 
Director in the 6 
months following the 
change of control.
A.C. Bruce may give 
summary notice in the 
6 months following a 
change of control of 
the Company
DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS, NOTICE PERIODS AND TERMINATION PAYMENTS
Compensation for loss 
of office
No more than 12 
months’ basic salary 
and benefits (including 
company pension 
contributions).
Lump sum due 
on termination by 
Executive Director 
following a change 
of control comprising 
cash amount equal to:
• 1 year’s basic 
salary and 
benefits (including 
company pension 
contributions); and
• the maximum 
bonus outcome 
for the financial 
year in which the 
change of control 
occurred.
Termination payment 
to A.C. Bruce 
following a change 
of control comprises 
cash amount equal to:
• 2 year’s basic 
salary and 
benefits (including 
company pension 
contributions); and
• the likely bonus 
outcomes 
(determined by the 
Committee) had A. 
C. Bruce remained 
in office for the 2 
years following the 
date of notice to 
terminate.
Treatment of annual 
bonus on termination
Bonuses which have 
already been declared 
are payable in full.
In the event of 
termination by the 
Company (except for 
cause) a pro-rated 
bonus to the end of 
the notice period is 
also payable.
As set out above A. C. Bruce’s service 
contract does not 
contain any provisions 
regarding the payment 
of a bonus following 
termination.
Treatment of unvested 
ESOS options
Good leavers may 
exercise their options 
within 6 months of 
cessation (1 year 
for death) Options 
of leavers for fraud, 
dishonesty or 
misconduct lapse.
Options of other 
leavers may be 
exercised within 6 
months of cessation, 
but only to the extent 
that they would 
ordinarily become 
vested during that 
time. There is no 
discretion to treat 
any such leaver as a  
“good leaver”.
Good leaver 
circumstances 
comprise death, injury, 
disability, redundancy, 
retirement or transfer 
of employing business 
outside group.
Performance 
conditions are waived 
for good leavers, but 
the number of options 
that can be exercised 
is reduced pro-rata to 
reflect the proportion 
of the vesting period 
completed before 
cessation.
Performance 
conditions are 
waived on a change 
of control, but the 
number of options 
that can be exercised 
is reduced pro-rata to 
reflect the proportion 
of the vesting period 
completed before 
cessation. 38 39
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Provision Policy Details
Contractual 
provisions on a 
change of control of 
the Company
Other provisions 
in specific service 
contracts
Exercise of discretion Intended only to be 
relied upon to provide 
flexibility in unusual 
circumstances
The Committee’s 
determination will 
take into account 
the particular 
circumstances of the 
Executive Director’s 
departure and the 
recent performance of 
the company
Outside appointments Subject to approval Board approval must 
be sought.
Executive Directors 
may retain the fees 
paid in respect of any 
external appointment.
Non-Executive 
Directors 
Annual re-election All Non-Executives 
are subject to annual 
re-election. No 
compensation payable 
if required to stand 
down.
In the event of the negotiation of a compromise or settlement agreement between the Company and a departing director, the 
Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims. Such payments may also include 
reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
The Committee may also include the reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice in the 
termination package, if it considers it reasonable to do so. It may also allow the continuation of benefits for a limited period.
DATES OF SERVICE CONTRACTS/ LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT
 Director Date of service contract/ 
  letter of appointment
 P . Jones 22.02.2010
 A. C. Bruce  11.05.2006
 R. A. Gregson 22.02.2010
 N. A. Davis 02.02.2012
 N. McMinn 19.08.2013
 P . M. White 4.09.2006
 J. E. Brown 13.05.2005
 D. C. A. Bramall 30.06.2006
 W. Holmes 12.06.2008
Copies of directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the company’s registered office. 40 41
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
TOTAL REMUNERATION OPPORTUNITY
The chart below illustrates the remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors under three different 
performance scenarios: (i) Minimum; (ii) On-target; and (iii) Maximum.
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: (i) Fixed; (ii) Annual variable (annual bonus awards); 
and (iii) Multiple year (ESOS options) which are set out in the future policy table above.
Andy Bruce
Robin Gregson
Nigel McMinn
Neil Davis
8 
 
Director 
Date of service contract/ letter of appointment 
P. Jones 22.02.2010 
A. C. Bruce  11.05.2006 
R. A. Gregson 22.02.2010 
N. A. Davis 02.02.2012 
N. McMinn 19.08.2013 
P. M. White 4.09.2006 
J. E. Brown 13.05.2005 
D. C. A. Bramall 30.06.2006 
W. Holmes 12.06.2008 
 
Copies of directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the company’s 
registered office. 
Total remuneration opportunity 
The chart below illustrates the remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors under 
three different performance scenarios: (i) Minimum; (ii) On-target; and (iii) Maximum.  
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: (i) Fixed; (ii) Annual variable 
(annual bonus awards); and (iii) Multiple year (ESOS options) which are set out in the future policy table 
above.  
Andy Bruce 
 
Robin Gregson 
 
 
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
	   £ 1 , 0 4 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 7 5 4 , 000 	   
	   £ 3 8 5 , 000 	   
	   £ 8 1 4 , 000 	   
	   £ 5 8 9 , 000 	   
	   £ 3 0 1 , 000 	   
£0 £400,000 £800,000 £1,200,000
8 
 
Director 
Date of service contract/ letter of appointment 
P. Jones 22.02.2010 
A. C. Bruce  11.05.2006 
R. A. Gregson 22.02.2010 
N. A. Davis 02.02.2012 
N. McMinn 19.08.2013 
P. M. White 4.09.2006 
J. E. Brown 13.05.2005 
D. C. A. Bramall 30.06.2006 
W. Holmes 12.06.2008 
 
Copies of directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the company’s 
registered office. 
Total remuneration opportunity 
The chart below illustrates the remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors under 
three different performance scenarios: (i) Minimum; (ii) On-target; and (iii) Maximum.  
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: (i) Fixed; (ii) Annual variable 
(annual bonus awards); and (iii) Multiple year (ESOS options) which are set out in the future policy table 
above.  
Andy Bruce 
 
Robin Gregson 
 
 
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
	   £ 1 , 0 4 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 7 5 4 , 000 	   
	   £ 3 8 5 , 000 	   
	   £ 8 1 4 , 000 	   
	   £ 5 8 9 , 000 	   
	   £ 3 0 1 , 000 	   
£0 £400,000 £800,000 £1,200,000
9 
 
Nigel McMinn 
 
Neil Davis 
 
 
 
Each element of remuneration is defined in the table below: 
Element Description 
Fixed Base salary for 2014 plus pension and benefits (benefits being taken from the single total figure of remuneration for 
2013) 
Annual bonus Annual bonus awards. 
ESOS 
 
ESOS options.  These awards take the form of market value options.  For the purpose of the illustration above the 
“on-target” scenario shows an estimate of the fair value of the award.  In the “maximum” scenario the option price is 
assumed to be reduced to nil, and the full face value of the award is shown. 
 
The award level for ESOS options has been assumed to be 100% of base salary. 
 
The on-target scenario assumes that: 
 
 for the annual bonus, adjusted profit is in line with budget 
 for the ESOS options, vesting is midway between the threshold and maximum levels. 
 
 
Non-Executive Directors fee policy 
 
The policy for the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is as set out below. Non-Executive Directors 
are not entitled to a bonus, they cannot participate in the company’s share option schemes and they are not 
eligible for pension arrangements. 
 
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
	   £ 6 5 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 4 7 2 , 000 	   
	   £ 2 4 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 6 5 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 4 7 2 , 000 	   
	   £ 2 4 1 , 000 	   
£0 £400,000 £800,000 £1,200,000
9 
 
Nigel McMinn 
 
Neil Davis 
 
 
 
Each element of remuneration is defined in the table below: 
Element Description 
Fixed Base salary for 2014 plus pension and benefits (benefits being taken from the single total figure of remuneration for 
2013) 
Annual bonus Annual bonus awards. 
ESOS 
 
ESOS options.  These awards take the form of market value options.  For the purpose of the illustration above the 
“on-target” scenario shows an estimate of the fair value of the award.  In the “maximum” scenario the option price is 
assumed to be reduced to nil, and the full face value of the award is shown. 
 
The award level for ESOS options has been assumed to be 100% of base salary. 
 
The on-target scenario assumes that: 
 
 for the annual bonus, adjusted profit is in line with budget 
 for the ESOS options, vesting is midway between the threshold and maximum levels. 
 
 
Non-Executive Directors fee policy 
 
The policy for the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is as set out below. Non-Executive Directors 
are not entitled to a bonus, they cannot participate in the company’s share option schemes and they are not 
eligible for pension arrangements. 
 
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
	   £ 6 5 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 4 7 2 , 000 	   
	   £ 2 4 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 6 5 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 4 7 2 , 000 	   
	   £ 2 4 1 , 000 	   
£0 £400,000 £800,000 £1,200,000
9 
 
Nigel McMinn 
 
Neil Davis 
 
 
 
Each element of remuneration is defined in the table below: 
Element Description 
Fixed Base salary for 2014 plus pension and benefits (benefits being taken from the single total figure of remuneration for 
2013) 
Annual bonus Annual bonus awards. 
ESOS 
 
ESOS options.  These awards take the form of market value options.  For the purpose of the illustration above the 
“on-target” scenario shows an estimate of the fair value of the award.  In the “maximum” scenario the option price is 
assumed to be reduced to nil, and the full face value of the award is shown. 
 
The award level for ESOS options has been assumed to be 100% of base salary. 
 
The on-target scenario assumes that: 
 
 for the annual bonus, adjusted profit is in line with budget 
 for the ESOS options, vesting is midway between the threshold and maximum levels. 
 
 
Non-Executive Directors fee policy 
 
The policy for the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is as set out below. Non-Executive Directors 
are not entitled to a bonus, they cannot participate in the company’s share option schemes and they are not 
eligible for pension arrangements. 
 
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
	   £ 6 5 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 4 7 2 , 000 	   
	   £ 2 4 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 6 5 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 4 7 2 , 000 	   
	   £ 2 4 1 , 000 	   
Fixed
9 
 
Nigel McMinn 
 
Neil Davis 
 
 
 
Each element of remuneration is defined in the table below: 
Element Description 
Fixed Base salary for 2014 plus pension and benefits (benefits being taken from the single total figure of remuneration for 
2013) 
Annual bonus Annual bonus awards. 
ESOS 
 
ESOS options.  These awards take the form of market value options.  For the purpose of the illustration above the 
“on-target” scenario shows an estimate of the fair value of the award.  In the “maximum” scenario the option price is 
assumed to be reduced to nil, and the full face value of the award is shown. 
 
The award level for ESOS options has been assumed to be 100% of base salary. 
 
The on-target scenario assumes that: 
 
 for the annual bonus, adjusted profit is in line with budget 
 for the ESOS options, vesting is midway between the threshold and maximum levels. 
 
 
Non-Executive Directors fee policy 
 
The policy for the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is as set out below. Non-Executive Directors 
are not entitled to a bonus, they cannot participate in the company’s share option schemes and they are not 
eligible for pension arrangements. 
 
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
	   £ 6 5 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 4 7 2 , 000 	   
	   £ 2 4 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 6 5 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 4 7 2 , 000 	   
	   £ 2 4 1 , 000 	   
Annual Bonus ESOS
9 
 
Nigel McMinn 
 
Neil Davis 
 
 
 
Each element of remuneration is defined in the table below: 
Element Description 
Fixed Base salary for 2014 plus pension and benefits (benefits being taken from the single total figure of remuneration for 
2013) 
Annual bonus Annual bonus awards. 
ESOS 
 
ESOS options.  These awards take the form of market value options.  For the purpose of the illustration above the 
“on-target” scenario shows an estimate of the fair value of the award.  In the “maximum” scenario the option price is 
assumed to be reduced to nil, and the full face value of the award is shown. 
 
The award level for ESOS options has been assumed to be 100% of base salary. 
 
The on-target scenario assumes that: 
 
 for the annual bonus, adjusted profit is in line with budget 
 for the ESOS options, vesting is midway between the threshold and maximum levels. 
 
 
Non-Executive Directors fee policy 
 
The policy for the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is as set out below. Non-Executive Directors 
are not entitled to a bonus, they cannot participate in the company’s share option schemes and they are not 
eligible for pension arrangements. 
 
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
100%	  
51%	  
37%	  
39%	  
32%	  
10%	  
31%	  
£0	   £400	   £800	   £1,200	  
Bel ow	  Th resh ol d 	   Target	  
Outperformance	  
	   £ 6 5 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 4 7 2 , 000 	   
	   £ 2 4 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 6 5 1 , 000 	   
	   £ 4 7 2 , 000 	   
	   £ 2 4 1 , 000 	    40 41
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Each element of remuneration is defined in the table below:
 Element Description
 Fixed Base salary for 2014 plus pension and benefits (benefits being taken from the single total figure of 
  remuneration for 2013)
 Annual bonus Annual bonus awards.
 ESOS ESOS options.  These awards take the form of market value options.  For the purpose of the illustration 
  above the “on-target” scenario shows an estimate of the fair value of the award.  In the “maximum” 
  scenario the option price is assumed to be reduced to nil, and the full face value of the award is shown 
 
  The award level for ESOS options has been assumed to be 100% of base salary.
The on-target scenario assumes that:
• for the annual bonus, adjusted profit is in line with budget
• for the ESOS options, vesting is midway between the threshold and maximum levels.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEE POLICY
The policy for the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is as set out below. Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to 
a bonus, they cannot participate in the company’s share option schemes and they are not eligible for pension arrangements.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics
To attract NEDs who have a 
board range of experience 
and skills to oversee the 
implementation of our 
strategy
NED fees are determined by 
the Board within the limits 
set out in the Articles of 
Association
Paid in 12 equal monthly 
instalments during the year
Reviewed annually to reflect 
role, responsibility and 
performance of the individual 
and the company. 
Annual rate set out in 
the annual report on 
remuneration for the current 
year and the following year.
No prescribed maximum 
annual increase
None
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES 42 43
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION
The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2013 financial year for each 
director, together with comparative figures for 2012. The information provided in this part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
is subject to audit.
 P. Jones 350 320 1 3 367 352 653 Nil 65 64 1,436 739
 A. C. Bruce  279 250 1 3 293 275 510 Nil 55 50 1,138 578
 R. A. Gregson 260 250 1 3 273 275 510 Nil 52 50 1,096 578
 N. A. Davis 215 200 1 1 226 207 Nil Nil 43 36 485 444
 N. McMinn 
 (appointed 
 August 2013) 95 N/A 1 N/A 100 N/A Nil N/A 19 N/A 215 N/A
 Total 1,199 1,020 5 10 1,259 1,109 1,653 Nil 234 200 4,350 2,339
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Salary 
and fees 
£000
Benefits 
£000
1
Annual 
bonus 
£000
ESOS 
£000
Pension 
benefits 
£000
Total 
£000
  2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
 P. M. White 110 107 - - - - - - - - 110 107
 J. E. Brown 43 42 - - - - - - - - 43 42
 D. C. A. Bramall 38 37 - - - - - - - - 38 37
 W. Holmes 38 37 - - - - - - - - 38 37
 Total 229 223 - - - - - - - - 229 223
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
  1,428 1,243 5 10 1,259 1,109 1,653 - 234 200 4,579 2,562
 Aggregate  
 directors 
 emoluments
Supporting information
1 - Benefits include items such as a company car, health insurance, life assurance premiums and share options granted under 
the Employee ShareSave Scheme on 8 October 2012 at an exercise price of 58.66 pence per ordinary share, representing a 20% 
discount to the share price of 73.33 pence at the time of the grant.
ANNUAL BONUS
Bonuses are earned by reference to the financial year and paid in March following the end of the financial year. The bonuses 
accruing to the Executive Directors in respect of 2013 are shown below.
Threshold 
performance 
required
Maximum 
performance 
required
Actual 
performance
Bonus value as % of salary
P. Jones A.C. Bruce R.A Gregson N. A. Davis N. McMinn 
Max Actual Max Actual Max Actual Max Actual Max Actual
105% 105% 105% 105% 105% 105% 105% 105% 105% 105%
Adjusted 
profit before 
tax
Bonus 
receivable
£367,500 £292,688 £273,000 £225,750 £99,806
ESOS OPTIONS VESTING WITH REFERENCE TO 2013
The amounts included in respect of the ESOS in the single total figure of remuneration were in respect of ESOS options granted 
in 2011. Vesting was dependent on performance over the financial years 2011, 2012 and 2013. 42 43
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The performance target for these ESOS options related to the growth of EPS in excess of CPI growth over the 3 year performance 
period, with:
• 10% vesting if EPS growth was 10% above CPI; then a stepped scale applied up to 
• 100% vesting if EPS growth was 50% above CPI.
In addition, if growth of EPS exceeded CPI growth by at least 45%, the aggregate exercise price of an Executive Director’s ESOS 
options would become £1.
Actual growth in EPS was 57.9% above CPI, therefore 100% of each Executive Director’s ESOS options will vest and the 
aggregate exercise price of each director’s ESOS options will be reduced to £1. The details of the ESOS options which will vest 
are shown below:  
P. Jones A.C. Bruce R.A Gregson
Max Actual Max Actual Max Actual
Number of shares subject 
to ESOS option/ number of 
shares which will vest 
524,590 409,836 409,836 524,590 409,836 409,836
Date of grant 5.1.2011 5.1.2011 5.1.2011
Earliest exercise date 5.3.2014 5.3.2014 5.3.2014
Expiry date 5.1.2021 5.1.2021 5.1.2021
Exercise price (£) £nil £nil £nil
Value of ESOS option (£) £653,114 £510,245 £510,245
For the purposes of this table, the ESOS options have been valued using the average share price over the three months to 31 
December 2013 of £1.245.
PENSION ENTITLEMENTS AND CASH ALLOWANCES
A. C. Bruce remains a member of the group defined benefit scheme, which closed to future accruals from 31 March 2011. As at 
31 December 2013 Mr Bruce’s accrued pension entitlement was £30,818.
The scheme provides a pension of up to two-thirds of final pensionable salary on retirement at age 60 years, as well as lump sum 
death-in-service benefit and pension benefits based on final pensionable salary. Pension increases are in line with Limited Price 
Indexation. Death-in-service pays at four times salary and death-in-retirement pays benefits at 50%.  No enhanced benefits are 
payable on early retirement.
A.C. Bruce’s pension in the defined benefit scheme is no longer linked to his salary and therefore there is no value is attributable 
to the increase in the value of his defined benefits for the purposes of the single total figure of remuneration.  All of the pension 
entry in the single total figure of remuneration therefore relates to his membership of money purchase arrangements.
P . Jones, R.A. Gregson, N. A. Davis and N. McMinn participate only in money purchase arrangements. Additional payments in 
excess of the annual pension allowance are included in the table of directors’ remuneration as pension benefits and were as 
follows: P . Jones: £15,000, A.C Bruce: £5,000 and R.A. Gregson: £2,000. The corresponding payment for P . Jones in 2012 was 
£14,000.
SHARE OPTIONS GRANTED IN 2013
No options under the ESOS were granted to Executive Directors in 2013.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS 
No payments were made in 2013 to past directors.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE
P . Jones retired on 31 December 2013.  No payments were made to P . Jones in respect of the cessation of his office holding. P . 
Jones retained his entitlement to his ESOS option which will vest in March 2014 and will receive his annual bonus payment for 
2013 in March 2014. 44 45
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
No share ownership guidelines apply to directors.
ESOS share options
Details of share options held by Executive Directors under the ESOS are as follows:
Details of the performance conditions of the ESOS options held by P . Jones, A. C. Bruce and R. A. Gregson are set out in the 
notes to the single total figure of remuneration table. 
The ESOS option held by N. A. Davis is subject to the same performance metrics, save that the performance period for this option 
is the 2012 to 2014 financial years.
All-employee share scheme
Details of share options held by Executive Directors under the Employee ShareSave scheme are as follows:
No share ownership guidelines apply to directors.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING
The table below summarises the directors’ shareholdings as at 31 December 2013.  There were no changes in these shareholdings 
between that date and the date of approval of this report.
  2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
 P . Jones 3,020,253 3,020,253 - - 524,590 524,590
 A. C. Bruce  502,086 367,086 - - 409,836 409,836
 R. A. Gregson 217,815 217,815 - - 409,836 409,836
 N. A. Davis 83,345 63,345 - - 346,820 346,820
 N. J. McMinn - - - - - -
 P . M. White 53,716 53,716 - - - -
 J. E. Brown 98,318 98,318 - - - -
 D. C. A. Bramall 73,487,636 94,337,637 - - - -
 W. Holmes 36,666 36,666 - - - -
Unvested share options subject 
to performance conditions
Vested but unexercised 
share options
Number of shares held (including 
by connected persons) 
 P. Jones ESOS 5.1.2011 5.3.2014 5.1.2021 61.0 524,590 - 524,590
 A. C. Bruce  ESOS 5.1.2011 5.3.2014 5.1.2021 61.0 409,836 - 409,836
 R. A. Gregson ESOS 5.1.2011 5.3.2014 5.1.2021 61.0 409,836 - 409,836
 N. A. Davis ESOS 29.3.2012 29.3.2015 29.3.2022 62.75 346,820 - 346,820
 N. J. McMinn
Date of 
Grant
Scheme
Earliest 
Excercise 
Date
Expiry
Date
Exercise
Price
(pence)
Number at 
1 January 
2013
Lapsed
in Year
Number at 
31 December 
2013
 P . Jones ShareSave 8/10/2012 1/12/2015 1/6/2016 58.66 15,340 - 15,340
 A. C. Bruce  ShareSave 8/10/2012 1/12/2015 1/6/2016 58.66 15,340 - 15,340
 R. A. Gregson ShareSave 8/10/2012 1/12/2015 1/6/2016 58.66 15,340 - 15,340
 N. A. Davis ShareSave 6/10/2011 1/12/2015 1/6/2015 41.14 21,876 - 21,876
 N. J. McMinn ShareSave N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Date of 
Grant
Scheme
Earliest 
Excercise 
Date
Expiry
Date
Exercise
Price
(pence)
Number at 
1 January 
2013
Lapsed
in Year
Number at 
31 December 
2013 44 45
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Performance graph and table
The chart below shows the company’s five-year annual Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance against the FTSE All-Share 
Total Return Index, which is considered to be an appropriate comparison to other public companies of a similar size.
The table below the chart sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive over each of the last 5 years, valued 
using the same methodology as applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
Notes
1. H. K. Surgenor retired on 30 September 2009
2. P . Jones appointed on 1 October 2009
Change in remuneration of Chief Executive
The following table sets out the change in the Chief Executive’s salary, benefits and bonus between 2012 and 2013 compared 
with the average percentage change in each of those components for the employees of the group.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
H.K. Surgenor (1) P . Jones (2) P . Jones P . Jones P . Jones P . Jones
Total single figure (£000) 315 307 320 75 320 350
Annual bonus % of 
maximum opportunity
100% 105% 110% 100% 66% 105%
ESOS vesting % maximum 
opportunity (if applicable)
- - - - - 100%
Chief Executive
Increase in Base Salary Increase in benefits Increase in bonus
9% 0% 4% CEO
2% 0% 2% Employees 46 47
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below sets out the total spend on pay in 2013 and 2012 year compared with other disbursements from profit (i.e. the 
distributions to shareholders and These were the most significant outgoings for the company in the last financial year.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2014
The salaries and fees to be paid to directors in 2014 are set out in the table below, together with any increases expressed as a 
percentage.
The basis for determining annual bonus payments for 2014 is set out in the future policy table in the directors’ remuneration 
report on page [ ].  The profit targets are considered commercially sensitive because of the information that it provides to the 
company’s competitors and consequently these will only be disclosed after the end of the financial year, in the 2014 annual report 
on remuneration. 
The Committee intends to grant options under the ESOS in 2014.  These options will relate to performance in 2014, 2015 and 
2016 and will be the only awards made in these years.  The options will take the form of market value options over a value of 
shares equal to 300% of salary.  The options will be split into three equal tranches, with the vesting of each tranche based on EPS 
growth in 2014, 2015 and 2016 respectively.  There will be a level of EPS growth above which the exercise price of the options will 
be reduced to £1 in aggregate.  Subject to the outcome of the performance conditions, options will vest in 2017, 2018 and 2019.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
  Spend in 2013 Spend in 2012 
   £m £m % Increase
 Spend on staff pay 
 (including Directors) 165.3 148.7 11%
 Profit distributed by 
 way of dividend 9.5 8.4 12%
  2014 salary/fees 2013 salary/fees Increase  
  £000 £000 %
 P . Jones N/A 350 N/A
 A. C. Bruce  350 279 25 (Promotion to CEO)
 R. A. Gregson 267 260 2.7
 N. A. Davis 221 215 2.7
 N. J. McMinn 
 (appointed August 2013) 267 260 2.7
 P . M. White 117 110 6.4
 J. E. Brown 44 43 2.3
 D. C. A. Bramall 39 38 2.6
 W. Holmes 39 38 2.6 46 47
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors’ remuneration
The Committee
The Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of the Executive 
Directors and of senior management. The Committee’s terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary. The 
members of the Committee during the financial year were W. Holmes (Chairman), J.E. Brown and P .M. White. W. Holmes and J.E. 
Brown are independent non-Executive Directors of the Board.
The primary role of the Committee is to set the directors’ remuneration policy and accordingly to:
• review, recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for the Executive Directors 
 and other senior executives;
• approve the remuneration package for the Executive Directors;
• determine the balance between base pay and performance related elements of the package to align 
 Executive Directors’ interests with those of shareholders; and
• approve annual incentive payments for Executive Directors.
Summary of activity during 2013
During 2013 the Committee conducted its annual review of all aspects of the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors 
to ensure that they continue to reward and motivate achievement of medium and long-term objectives, and align the interests of 
Executive Directors and shareholders. Accordingly, the Committee’s activities during the year included:
• reviewing the basic salaries of the Executive Directors for 2014;
• setting annual performance targets in line with the company’s strategic plan for the 2014 annual incentive plan 
 and determining the amounts that may potentially be payable; and
• determining the form of the long-term incentive arrangements for the next three years under the ESOS, including the 
 details of ESOS options for 2014, including the size of option grants and the applicable performance targets.
The Committee appointed and received advice over the year from PwC LLP on the LTIP elements of the directors’ remuneration 
policy. PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ group and complies with its Code of Conduct which includes 
guidelines to ensure that advice is independent and free of undue influence. During the year, PwC was paid fees of £10,000.
Statement of voting at 2013 AGM
At the last annual general meeting, votes on the remuneration report were cast as follows:
The disclosure in the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report will include details of the binding shareholder vote on the 
directors’ remuneration policy.
By Order of the Board
W. Holmes
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
5 March 2014
 217,309,313 99.2 1,806,302 0.8 9,598,289
% Votes for Votes Against % Abstentions
Directors’ Remuneration Report 48 49
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Independent Auditor’s Report
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LOOKERS PLC
Opinion on financial statements of Lookers plc
In our opinion the financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2013 
 and of the group’s and parent company’s profit for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
 by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 
 financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Principal Accounting Policies, the Consolidated group and Company Income Statements, 
the Consolidated group and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated group and Company Statements 
of Financial Position, the Consolidated group and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated group and Company 
Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 35. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement contained within the Director’s report on page 23 that 
the group is a going concern. We confirm that:
• we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial  
 statements is appropriate; and
• we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the group’s ability to continue as 
 a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Revenue recognition in relation to 
manufacturer arrangements
A significant proportion of revenue and profit is derived 
from the receipt of bonuses from the Group’s manufacturer 
partners. These bonus arrangements are often complex.
The principal risk associated with manufacturer bonuses 
relates to recoverability which can be brought into doubt as 
a result of the complex nature of the agreements and hence 
the interpretation of  whether targets have been met. This can 
make it difficult to prove that a bonus is due.
We have:
• tested the design and implementation of controls
 in place over both the documentation of bonus 
 arrangements and the related accounting treatment; 
• tested the controls that are in place to monitor the
 recoverability of bonuses; 
• compared  a sample of bonus balances to credits 
 received from the manufacturer; and 
• reviewed the ageing of amounts due and evaluating 
 management’s judgements relating to the recoverability 
 of any aged balances, including considering the need 
 for any provision.
RISK How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 48 49
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Independent Auditor’s Report
Inventory valuation and provisioning
There are a number of risks that can have a material impact on 
the inventory balance in the financial statements, principally:
• the assessment of net realisable value of inventory, which 
 for used vehicles in particular can fluctuate as a result of 
 market factors and the condition of vehicles; 
• manufacturer bonuses, which should be offset against 
 the inventory balance where the vehicle is still recorded 
 as inventory at the balance sheet date; and
• provision requirements for slow-moving inventory 
 as a result of the factors noted above.
We have:
• reviewed the design and implementation of the controls in 
 place around the valuation of vehicle and parts inventory 
 and identification of provisioning requirements;
• performed substantive procedures (discussed below), 
 including data audit techniques on the Group’s vehicle 
 and parts inventory reports, to identify any issues 
 in respect of valuation and slow-moving inventory;
• tested the cost of inventory by reference to a sample 
 of supplier invoices and confirmations;
• ensured that manufacturer bonuses have been 
 appropriately recorded within the inventory balance 
 where appropriate; and
• assessed the risk around net realisable value of used 
 cars by comparing the carrying value of a sample 
 of vehicles to the industry accepted valuation methodology 
 set out in the Glass’s Guide and CAP , and also 
 by reference to a selection of post year end sales.
RISK How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Pension scheme valuation
The Group sponsors two defined benefit pension schemes 
which at the period end have an actuarial deficit. The 
calculation of the deficit involves significant judgments in 
relation to key assumptions, particularly for mortality and 
discount rates. Minor variations in the principal assumptions 
can have a significant impact on the liability of the two 
schemes. 
See key sources of estimation and uncertainty on page 75. 
We have:
• reviewed the design and implementation of management’s 
 controls around this risk; and
• evaluated the appropriateness of the  assumptions used 
 to calculate the actuarial deficit by involving our internal 
 pension specialists to test the main assumptions adopted 
 by the Group, including mortality and discount rates. 
 Our work included benchmarking those assumptions 
 relative to those used in the external market.
Potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets
The Group has goodwill and intangible assets which arose 
from a number of acquisitions over several years. The 
Group’s assessment of impairment is a judgemental process 
which requires estimates concerning the estimated cash 
flows and associated discount and growth rates based on 
management’s view of future business prospects. 
See key sources of estimation and uncertainty on page 59. 
We have:
• reviewed the design and implementation of management’s 
 controls around this risk;
• reviewed management’s  impairment calculation and 
 assessed whether the requirements of IAS 36 ‘Impairment 
 of Assets’ have been followed; 
• evaluated the underlying assumptions applied, including 
 key judgements relating to growth in profits and the 
 discount rates applied;
• compared management’s growth assumptions to recent 
 trading performance of the relevant cash generating units 
 and also compared to external growth data provided by 
 the Society of Motor Manufacturers & Traders; and 
• benchmarked the discount rates against peer group 
 businesses. 50 51
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Independent Auditor’s Report
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on page 31.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, 
and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with 
respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope 
of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be £3.2 million, which is less than 7.5% of pre-tax profit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £66,000, as well 
as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.  We also report to the Audit 
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and 
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level. Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope 
primarily on the audit work at 20 trading locations. 15 of these were subject to a full audit and 5 were subject to an audit of 
specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
and of the materiality of the group’s operations at those trading locations. The 15 locations subject to audit represent the principal 
business units and account for 92% of the group’s total assets, 90% of the group’s total liabilities, 89% of the group’s revenue 
and 94% of the group’s profit before tax. They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to 
address the risks of material misstatement identified above. Our audit work at the 15 trading locations was executed at levels of 
materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion 
that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components 
not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the 
group audit team visits each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused at least once a year. There is one key 
component where there is a separate component audit partner. As part of the usual course of our Group audit, the component 
audit partner attends the Group team briefing, we discuss their risk assessment, and we also review documentation of the findings 
from their work. Furthermore, alongside the component audit partner the Senior Statutory Auditor attends the component close 
meeting.
Revenue
89%
9%
2%
Full audit scope
Specified audit procedures
Review at group level
Profit before tax
6%
94% 50 51
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Independent Auditor’s Report
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
 Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
 statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
 been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
 We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have 
not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records 
and returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the 
annual report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the 
 course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during 
the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the 
annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should 
have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Liabilities
90%
5%
5%
Assets
92%
4%
4% 52 53
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Damian Sanders BA ACA (Senior statutory auditor)
for and behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Manchester, United Kingdom
5 March 2014
Independent Auditor’s Report
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).  
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  We also comply with 
International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality 
control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional 
standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006.  Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or 
for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.  This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements.  In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit.  If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report. 52 53
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Principal Accounting Policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have 
been consistently applied to all years presented, unless stated otherwise.
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
 Lookers plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the registered 
office is given at the front of these accounts. The nature of the group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in 
section 1 of the Directors’ Report.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION
 The financial statements of the group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) adopted by the European Union. Therefore the group financial statements comply with article 4 of EU IAS Regulation.
 The group has adopted Standards and Interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and 
the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB. Individual standards and interpretations have 
to be adopted by the European Commission (EC) and the process leads to a delay between the issue and adoption of new 
standards and in some cases amendment by the EC. 
 International Financial Reporting Standards are subject to ongoing amendment by the IASB and subsequent endorsement by 
the EC and are therefore subject to change.
 The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain properties and 
financial instruments.
 ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS AND NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET ADOPTED
• Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of items of Other Comprehensive Income: The amendments require that an entity 
present separately the items of other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss in the future from 
those that would never be reclassified to profit or loss. The adoption of this standard has had no significant impact.
•  Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: The amendments require immediate recognition of actuarial gains and losses 
in other comprehensive income. The principal amendment that affects the Group is the requirement to calculate net 
interest income or expense using the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation. The new standard 
requires retrospective application and impacts the Groups Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income 
as a result of the changes in assessing the return on pension scheme assets. A prior year restatement has been made 
to reflect these changes which is explained in further detail below.
•  IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: New standard to replace existing guidance on fair value measurement in different 
IFRSs with a single definition of fair value, a framework of measuring fair values and disclosures about fair value 
measurements. This standard applies to assets, liabilities and an entity’s own equity instruments that, under other 
IFRSs, are required or permitted to be measured at fair value or when disclosure of fair value is provided.  Fair value 
is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date, i.e. an exit price. The adoption of this standard has had no 
significant impact.
 At the date of authorisation of the financial statements the following standards and interpretations which have not been 
applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective:
IFRS 10  Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 11  Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12  Disclosure of interests in other entities
 IAS 27  Separate Financial Statements 2011
 IAS 28  Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011
Amendments to IAS 32 and IFRS 7 for Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
 The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact 
on the financial statements of the company.
 Restatement
 As a result of the amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits, the Group has changed its accounting policy with respect to 
determining the income or expense related to its defined benefit pension scheme. The standard prescribes that an interest 
expense or income is calculated on the net defined benefit liability / asset by applying the discount rate to the net defined 
benefit liability / asset. This replaces the interest expense on the defined benefit obligation and the expected return on asset 
plans. The revised standard requires retrospective application, therefore the table below reflects the adjustments made to 
the comparative amounts for the year ended 31 December 2012. These comprise the reversal of the interest expense on 
the defined benefit obligation (net of return on assets) of £1.2m for the group and £0.4m for the company to be replaced by 
a net interest expense of £2.2m for the group and £1.3m for the company. The associated income tax has been restated 
accordingly. Actuarial losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31  54 55
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Principal Accounting Policies
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION 
 Restatement (continued)
 December 2012 of £15.9m for the group and £7.1m for the company have been restated into a remeasurement loss of £14.9m 
for the group and £6.2m for the company with the associated income tax also restated. All amounts subject to the change 
are non-underlying in nature and are included in the central segment.
 There is no effect on the opening and closing cash position or net assets as previously reported.
 The table below reflects the adjustments made to the comparative amounts for the year ended 31 December 2012.
 
 
 The cashflow statement and segmental note have not been restated for the adoption of IAS 19 (revised) as the impact is not 
considered significant. For the same reason a third statement of financial position has not been included.
 Going Concern
 This financial information has been prepared on a going concern basis which the Directors believe to be appropriate for the 
reasons set out below.
 
 The company and the group meet their day to day working capital requirements through short-term stocking loans, the 
revolving credit facility and its medium-term funding requirements through a term loan.
 At the year end the medium-term banking facilities included a revolving credit facility of up to £55.0 million and a term loan 
totalling £41.25 million, providing total facilities of £96.25 million. These facilities were renewed in February 2014 and are due 
for renewal in March 2018.
 In addition to the total facility limit, the facilities include certain covenant tests. The failure of a covenant test would render 
the entire facilities repayable on demand at the option of the lenders.
 The Directors have assessed the future funding requirements of the group and the company and compared them to the level 
of committed available borrowing facilities. This assessment included a detailed review of trading and cash flow forecasts for 
a period 12 months from the date of this annual report which projects that the total revised facility limit is not exceeded over 
the duration of the forecasts and forecast covenant levels are met. Whilst uncertainty remains in the global economy these 
forecasts are considered reasonable.
  The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and the company have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For those reasons, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing this Annual Report. 
3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
 
 Other than the estimates noted below, there are no other critical judgements.
 Pensions
 The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the group’s retirement benefit obligations represents the liabilities of 
the group’s defined benefit pension schemes after deduction of the fair value of the related assets.  The schemes’ liabilities 
      Group  Company
      2012  2012
Consolidated Income Statement      £m  £m
       
Decrease in finance expense (net of return on assets)   (1.2) (0.4)
Net pension cost    2.2  1.3
Decrease in income tax expense    (0.2)  (0.1)
Decrease in profit for the year    0.8  0.8
  
Decrease in basic and diluted earnings per share (pence)   0.23p
      2012  2012
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income     £m  £m
       
Decrease in profit for the year    0.8  0.8
Other comprehensive income      
Decrease in defined benefit actuarial (remeasurement) losses  (1.0) (0.9)
Decrease in income tax income    0.2  0.1
Increase in other comprehensive income for the year   (0.8) (0.8)
Increase in total comprehensive income for the year   -  - 54 55
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Principal Accounting Policies
3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS  (continued)
 are derived by estimating the ultimate cost of benefits payable by the schemes and reflecting the discounted value of the 
proportion accrued by the year end in the balance sheet.  In order to arrive at these estimates, a number of key financial and 
 non-financial assumptions are made by management, changes to which could have a material impact upon the net deficit 
and also the net cost recognised in the Income Statement.
 The principal assumptions relate to the rate of inflation, mortality and the discount rate. The assumed rate of inflation is 
important because this affects the rate at which salaries grow and therefore the size of the pension that employees receive 
upon retirement. Over the longer term, rates of inflation can vary significantly.
 The overall benefits payable by the schemes will also depend upon the length of time that members of the schemes live for; 
the longer they remain alive, the higher the cost of the pension benefits to be met by the schemes. Assumptions are made regarding 
the expected lifetime of the schemes’ members, based upon recent national experience. However, given the rates of advance in 
medical science, it is uncertain whether these assumptions will prove to be accurate in practice.
 The rate used to discount the resulting cash flows is equivalent to the market yield at the balance sheet date on UK government 
securities with a similar duration to the schemes liabilities. This rate is potentially subject to significant variation. The net cost 
recognised in the Income Statement is also affected by the return on the schemes’ assets. The impact of the pension estimates on 
the group’s accounts can be seen in note 30.
 Goodwill and Intangible Assets
 The group reviews the goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries or businesses and any intangible assets with an indefinite 
life for impairment at least annually or when events or changes in economic circumstances indicate that impairment may have taken 
place. The impairment review is performed by projecting the future cash flows, excluding finance and tax, based upon budgets 
and plans and making appropriate assumptions about rates of growth and discounting these using a rate that takes into account 
prevailing market interest rates and the risks inherent in the business. If the present value of the projected cash flows is less than the 
carrying value of the underlying net assets and related goodwill, an impairment charge would be required in the Income Statement. 
 This calculation requires the exercise of significant judgement by management; if the estimates made prove to be incorrect or 
changes in the performance of the subsidiaries affect the amount and timing of future cash flows, goodwill may become impaired in 
future periods.
  In respect of acquisitions, at the point of acquisition the group is required to assess whether intangible assets need to be separately 
identified and measured. The measurement and assessment of the useful economic lives of intangible assets requires the use of 
judgement by management.
 
4. BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
 The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts of the company and its subsidiary undertakings. An undertaking 
is regarded as a subsidiary if the group has control over its operating and financial policies. The profits and losses of subsidiary 
undertakings are consolidated as from the effective date of acquisition or to the effective date of disposal.
 The group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The cost of an acquisition is 
measured as the fair value of the assets acquired, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of 
completion, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed 
in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority 
interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is 
recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference 
is recognised directly in the Income Statement. 
 Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealised 
losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of 
acquired subsidiaries are changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group.
5. REVENUE RECOGNITION
 Revenue is measured at invoice price, excluding value added taxes, and principally comprises external vehicle sales, parts, servicing 
and bodyshop sales. Vehicle and parts sales are recognised when substantially all risks and rewards have been transferred to 
the customer. This is generally at the time of delivery to the customer. Service and bodyshop sales are recognised in line with the 
work performed. Revenue also comprises commissions receivable for arranging vehicle financing and related insurance products. 
Commissions are based on agreed rates and income is recognised at the time of approval of the vehicle finance by the finance 
provider. Where the group is acting as agent on behalf of a principal, the commission earned is also recorded at an agreed rate when 
the transaction has occurred.
6. SEGMENTAL REPORTING 
 A business segment is a component that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses; 
whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources 
to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance; and for which discrete financial information is available. The business 
segments are set out in note 1. 
7. OPERATING PROFIT
 Operating profit is stated before net interest costs and debt issue costs. 56 57
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Principal Accounting Policies
8. GOODWILL ARISING ON CONSOLIDATION
 Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the group’s share of the net identifiable assets of 
the acquired entity at the date of the acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is shown separately on the balance sheet. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is tested annually for impairment and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
9. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 Intangible assets acquired on a business combination are capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable and if fair 
value can be measured reliably on initial recognition. Intangible assets so acquired are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and any impairment losses. Amortisation is provided on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of the asset over its estimated useful 
life. The useful life of customer relationships is expected to be up to 20 years, and the useful lives of acquired brands vary between 
5 years and indefinite life. The group has no internally generated intangible assets.
10. INVESTMENTS
 Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 Assets are stated at their deemed cost less depreciation. With the exception of certain properties which were revalued on  
31 December 2003, all assets are recorded at historical cost. The basis of the revaluation, being open market value was, in the 
opinion of the Directors, approximate to fair value and has been adopted as deemed cost on transition to IFRS. The group has 
adopted the cost model under IAS 16, ‘Property plant and equipment’.
 Freehold buildings and long leasehold properties are depreciated over 50 years on a straight line basis to their estimated residual 
values. Short leasehold properties are amortised by equal instalments over the periods of the respective leases.
 Plant and machinery (including motor vehicles), fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment (including computer equipment and terminals), 
are depreciated on a straight line basis at rates varying between 10% and 33% per annum over their estimated useful lives. 
 Property, plant and equipment are transferred to “Assets held for sale” when management expect their disposal to be completed 
within one year from the balance sheet date. Non-current assets classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of net book value 
or expected proceeds.
12. IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS 
 Assets that have an indefinite life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. Assets subject to 
amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not 
be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less disposal costs, and value in use. 
13. LEASES
 Assets purchased under hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet and are depreciated over their useful lives. The 
interest element of the rental obligation is charged to the Income Statement so as to give a constant rate of charge on the remaining 
balance of the obligation.
 Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement in equal annual amounts over the periods of the leases.
14. INVENTORIES
 Inventories are valued at the lower of purchase price and net realisable value. Deposits paid for vehicles on consignment represent 
bulk deposits paid to manufacturers. The group recognises consignment stock in its balance sheet when there has been a 
substantial transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership. The related liabilities are included in trade payables.
15. RENTAL FLEET VEHICLES
 Motor vehicles hired to customers under short term rental agreements less than 1 year are included within Current Assets. Income 
from such rentals are recognised on a straight line basis over the period of the rental agreement.
 Vehicles held under short term rental agreements are depreciated on a straight line basis over the course of the rental agreement to 
their estimated residual value on termination of that agreement.
16. TAXATION
 The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. The tax currently payable is based on taxable 
profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or 
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The group’s 
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
 
 Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on taxable temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, if the deferred tax arises from initial 
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither 
accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been  56 57
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Principal Accounting Policies
16. TAXATION  (continued)
 enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised 
or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will 
be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is not provided on temporary differences arising 
on investments in subsidiaries, as the group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
17. PENSION COSTS
 The group operates the “Lookers Pension Plan” and the “Dutton Forshaw Group Pension Plan” which are defined benefit pension 
schemes providing benefits based on final pensionable salary. The defined benefit schemes define the amount of pension benefit 
that an employee will receive on retirement, dependent on one or more factors including age, years of service and salary. Both 
schemes are closed to new members and to future accrual.
 The last triennial valuation of the “Lookers Pension Plan” was carried out at 31 December 2010 by Mercer Human Resource 
Consulting Limited and has been updated to 31 December 2013 by a qualified independent actuary to take account of IAS 19 
(Revised). The last triennial valuation of the “Dutton Forshaw Group Pension Plan” was carried out at 31 March 2010 by KPMG LLP 
and has been updated to 31 December 2013 by a qualified independent actuary to take account of IAS 19 (Revised).  
 Under IAS 19 (Revised), the defined benefit deficits are included on the group’s balance sheet. Liabilities are calculated based on 
the current yields on high quality corporate bonds and on market conditions. Surpluses are only included to the extent that they are 
recoverable through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the schemes.
 Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited, net of 
deferred tax, each year to reserves and shown in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
 
 As a result of the amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits, the Group has changed its accounting policy with respect to determining 
the income or expense related to its defined benefit pension scheme. The standard prescribes that an interest expense or income 
is calculated on the net defined benefit liability or asset respectively by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability 
or asset. This replaces the interest expense on the defined benefit obligation and the expected return on plan assets. The revised 
standard requires retrospective application. Details of the restatement are given in section 2 on page 53.
 The group also provides pension arrangements for employees and certain Directors under defined contribution schemes. 
Contributions for these schemes are charged to the Income Statement in the year in which they are payable.
18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise deposits with banks and financial institutions, bank 
and cash balances, and liquid investments, net of bank overdrafts. In the balance sheet, bank overdrafts are included in current 
borrowings.
19. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
 The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured 
at fair value (excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant 
date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the group’s 
estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
 
 Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on 
management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
20. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
 The group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate 
risk, including forward foreign exchange contracts and an interest rate collar. Further details of derivative financial instruments are 
disclosed in note 21 to the financial statements.
 
 Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured 
to their fair value at each reporting date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement immediately unless the 
derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event, the timing of the recognition in the Income Statement 
 depends on the nature of the hedge relationship. The group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast 
transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of firm commitments (cash flow hedges).
 The fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge 
relationship is more than 12 months and as a current asset or a current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is 
less than 12 months.
 
 Derivatives not designated into an effective hedge relationship are classified as a current asset or a current liability.
  58 59
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Principal Accounting Policies
20. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  (continued) 
 Cash Flow Hedges
 The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised 
in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is 
included in the ‘other gains and losses’ line item.
 Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the 
periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedge item. 
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, 
the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost 
of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
21. EFFECTIVE INTEREST METHOD
 The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of financial liabilities and of allocating interest income over 
the relevant period.  The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected 
life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
 
 Debt instruments that are held-to-maturity, are available for sale or are loans and receivables recognised in income on an effective 
interest rate basis.
 Loans and Receivables
 Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are 
classified as ‘loans and receivables’. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less 
impairment.
 
 Interest is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would 
be immaterial.
 Impairment of Financial Assets
 Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet 
date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after 
the initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted. For loans and 
receivables the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated 
future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
 The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception 
of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is 
uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited 
against the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 Debt Instruments
 Debt instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual 
arrangement.
 Financial Liabilities
 Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at fair value through profit or loss’ or other financial liabilities.
23. DIVIDENDS
 Final Dividends proposed by the Board and unpaid at the end of the year are not recognised in the financial statements until they 
have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Interim Dividends are recognised when they are paid.
24. REPURCHASE COMMITMENTS
 As part of its normal trading activities, the group has contracted to repurchase, at predetermined values and dates, certain vehicles 
previously sold under a financial arrangement. The company’s residual interest in these vehicles is included in inventories and the 
related liability is included as repurchase commitments within trade and other payables. The valuation of these vehicles is at the lower 
of the repurchase price and the expected future sales price. 58 59
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Consolidated and Company Income Statements
Consolidated and Company Statements 
of Comprehensive Income
     Group  Restated*  Company Restated* 
  2013 2012 2013 2012
 Note £m £m £m £m
Profit for the financial year      36.2              26.3 11.5 7.7
Items that will never be reclassified to profit and loss:      
Actuarial losses recognised in post-      
retirement benefit schemes 30 (3.3) (14.9)  (10.3)  (6.2)
Movement in deferred taxation on pension liability 23   0.6  3.3   2.1 1.8
Rate adjustment   (1.3)  - (0.4)  -
Items that are or may be reclassified to profit and loss:
Fair value on derivative instruments   1.5  - 1.5  -
Movement in deferred taxation on derivative instruments  23 (0.3)  - (0.3)  -
Other comprehensive expense for the year  (2.8) (11.6) (7.4) (4.4) 
Total comprehensive income for the year  33.4 14.7 4.1 3.3
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the company  33.2 14.6 4.1 3.3
Non-controlling interests  0.2 0.1 - -
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (Revised) as described in Principal Accounting Policies and a reclassification.
 
  Group Restated*  Company  Restated* 
  2013 2012 2013 2012
 Note £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations        
Revenue 1 2,464.5 2,056.6  - - 
     
Cost of sales  (2,128.7) (1,753.3) - - 
     
Gross profit  335.8 303.3 - - 
Distribution costs  (184.8) (175.3) - - 
Administrative expenses  (94.0) (80.1) (14.0) (10.4) 
Other operating income  0.3 0.2  29.3 23.3 
Profit from operations  57.3 48.1  15.3 12.9
     
Profit from operations before amortisation  58.4 49.2  15.9 13.4
Amortisation of intangible assets 9 (1.1) (1.1)  (0.6) (0.5)
     
Profit from operations  57.3 48.1 15.3 12.9 
Interest payable 2 (10.5) (11.4) (4.9) (6.2) 
Interest receivable 2 0.2 0.2  2.6 2.8
Net interest  (10.3) (11.2) (2.3) (3.4)
Net interest on pension scheme obligation  (2.7) (2.2) (1.3) (1.3)
Debt issue costs  (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation  43.9 34.3 11.3 7.8
Profit before tax, amortisation, debt issue costs and pension costs 48.1 38.0  13.6 10.0 
Amortisation of intangible assets  (1.1) (1.1)  (0.6) (0.5) 
Net interest and costs on pension scheme obligation  (2.7) (2.2) (1.3) (1.3)
Debt issue costs  (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 3 43.9 34.3 11.3 7.8
Tax (charge)/credit 4 (7.7)  (8.0)  0.2 (0.1)
Profit for the year    36.2 26.3 11.5 7.7 
     
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the company  36.0 26.2 11.5 7.7
Non-controlling interests  0.2 0.1 - -
Continuing operations
Earnings per share     
Basic earnings per share 6 9.28p 6.77p    
Diluted earnings per share 6 9.10p 6.67p 
      60 61
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Consolidated and Company Statements 
of Financial Position
  Group   Company  
  2013 2012 2013 2012  
 Note £m £m £m £m 
NON-CURRENT ASSETS     
Goodwill 8  73.7 61.4 - -   
Intangible assets 9  13.8 14.8 1.7 2.2
Property, plant and equipment 10 204.6  197.1    0.1 0.1  
Investment in subsidiaries 11 -  -    57.8 57.8  
Deferred tax asset 23  - -  6.8 6.3    
   292.1 273.3   66.4 66.4 
CURRENT ASSETS     
Inventories 12  446.7 384.1   - - 
Trade and other receivables 13 154.0  123.8   190.8 189.9 
Rental fleet vehicles 15 52.9  39.4    - -
Cash and cash equivalents 16  5.2 8.7    18.2 7.2
Assets held for sale 17 0.5  3.2 - - 
    659.3 559.2     209.0 197.1 
TOTAL ASSETS  951.4  832.5     275.4 263.5
         
CURRENT LIABILITIES     
Bank loans and overdrafts 20 14.5  15.7  20.9 27.7 
Trade and other payables 18 578.9  479.8    78.0 53.2
Current tax liabilities 19 8.9  8.4    - -
Short-term provisions 22 1.0  0.6    - - 
Derivative financial instruments  7.0  8.5 7.0 8.5
   610.3  513.0 105.9 89.4
     
NET CURRENT ASSETS   49.0  46.2  103.1 107.7  
   
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES   
Bank loans 20  33.8 41.2  33.8 41.2 
Trade and other payables 18 24.2  21.0 - -
Retirement benefit obligations 30  44.1 44.1 24.7 16.8 
Deferred tax liabilities 23 10.2  8.6 - - 
Long-term provisions 22 0.8  0.8  - - 
   113.1  115.7  58.5 58.0   
       
TOTAL LIABILITIES   723.4  628.7 164.4 147.4 
      
NET ASSETS   228.0  203.8  111.0 116.1   
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY     
Ordinary share capital 24  19.4 19.4   19.4 19.4
Share premium 25 75.6  75.3 75.6 75.3
Capital redemption reserve 26  14.6 14.6   14.6 14.6 
Other reserve 27 (1.1)   (1.4) (1.1)       (1.1)
Retained earnings 28 118.8  95.4   2.5 7.9 
Equity attributable to shareholders 
of the Company  227.3  203.3   111.0 116.1
Non-controlling interests  0.7  0.5   - - 
TOTAL EQUITY  228.0  203.8 111.0 116.1
The financial statements of Lookers plc registered no. 111876 on pages 53 to 92 
were approved by the Directors on 5 March 2014.
Signed on behalf of the Directors.
A. C. Bruce R. A. Gregson 
Director Director 60 61
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Consolidated and Company Statements 
of Changes in Equity
      Equity 
   Capital   distributable to   Non 
 Share Share redemption  Other Retained shareholders   Controlling Total
 capital premium reserve reserve earnings of Company  Interest Equity
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m  £m £m
As at 1 January 2013 19.4 75.3 14.6 (1.4) 95.4 203.3 0.5 203.8
New shares issued  - 0.3 - - - 0.3 - 0.3
Profit for the year  - - - - 36.0 36.0 0.2 36.2
Actuarial losses on defined benefit 
pension schemes (note 30) - - - - (3.3) (3.3) - (3.3)
Deferred taxation on pension liability - - - - 0.6 0.6 - 0.6
Rate adjustment  - - - - (1.3) (1.3) - (1.3)
Foreign exchange adjustment  - - - 0.3 (0.3) - - -
Fair value on derivative instruments - - - - 1.5 1.5 - 1.5
Deferred taxation on 
derivative instruments - - - - (0.3) (0.3) - (0.3)
Dividends to shareholders - - - - (9.5) (9.5) - (9.5)
As at 31 December 2013 19.4 75.6 14.6 (1.1) 118.8 227.3 0.7 228.0
      
As at 1 January 2012 19.3 75.0 14.6 (1.4) 89.3 196.8 0.3 197.1
New shares issued  0.1 0.3 - - - 0.4 - 0.4
Profit for the year (restated*) - - - - 26.2 26.2 0.1 26.3
Actuarial losses on defined benefit 
pension schemes (note 30) (restated*) - - - - (14.9) (14.9) - (14.9)
Deferred taxation on 
pension liability (restated*) - - - - 3.3 3.3 - 3.3
Non-controlling interest in        
subsidiary undertaking - - - - (0.1) (0.1) 0.1 -
Dividends to shareholders - - - - (8.4) (8.4) - (8.4)
As at 31 December 2012 19.4 75.3 14.6 (1.4) 95.4 203.3 0.5 203.8
       
   Capital      Non
 Share Share redemption  Other Retained Total Controlling Total
 capital premium reserve reserve earnings Equity Interest Equity
Company £m £m £m £m £m £m  £m £m
As at 1 January 2013 19.4 75.3 14.6 (1.1) 7.9 116.1 - 116.1
New shares issued  - 0.3 - - - 0.3 - 0.3
Profit for the year  - - - - 11.5 11.5 - 11.5
Actuarial losses on defined benefit  
pension schemes (note 30) - - - - (10.3) (10.3) - (10.3)
Deferred tax on pension liability - - - - 2.1 2.1 - 2.1
Rate adjustment  - - - - (0.4) (0.4) - (0.4)
Fair value on derivative instruments - - - - 1.5 1.5 - 1.5
Deferred tax on derivative instruments - - - - (0.3) (0.3) - (0.3)
Dividends to shareholders - - - - (9.5) (9.5) - (9.5)
As at 31 December 2013 19.4 75.6 14.6 (1.1) 2.5 111.0 - 111.0
      
As at 1 January 2012 19.3 75.0 14.6 (1.1) 13.0 120.8 - 120.8
New shares issued  0.1 0.3 - - - 0.4 - 0.4
Profit for the year (restated*) - - - - 7.7 7.7 - 7.7
Actuarial losses on defined benefit  
pension schemes (note 30) (restated*) - - - - (6.2) (6.2) - (6.2)
Deferred tax on 
pension liability (restated*) - - - - 1.8 1.8 - 1.8
Dividends to shareholders - - - - (8.4) (8.4) - (8.4)
As at 31 December 2012 19.4 75.3 14.6 (1.1) 7.9 116.1 - 116.1
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (Revised) as described in Principal Accounting Policies. 62 63
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Consolidated and Company 
Cash Flow Statements
   Group    Company  
   2013  2012  2013 2012
  Note £m £m £m £m
     
Cash flows from operating activities     
     
Profit for the year   36.2 27.1    11.5 8.5 
Adjustments for:     
Tax    7.7  8.2   (0.2) 0.2  
Depreciation 3  12.5 10.8  0.1 0.1
Dividend received    -  -   (14.0) (9.5) 
Profit on disposal of plant and equipment  3  (0.1) (0.3)  -  -
Profit on disposal of Rental Fleet Vehicles 3  (0.4)  (0.4)   -  -
Amortisation of intangible assets 3  1.1 1.1  0.6 0.5 
Interest income   (0.2) (0.2)    (2.6) (2.8)  
Interest payable   10.5 12.6  4.9 6.6 
Debt issue costs   0.4 0.4  0.4 0.4
             
Changes in working capital    
 Increase in inventories   (62.6) (63.9)  -  -
 Increase in receivables   (30.2) (14.8)  (0.9) (25.1)
 Increase / (decrease) in payables   102.6 83.5  24.9 (8.1)
 Impact of net working capital of acquisitions   (1.0) 2.0  - -
Cash generated from / (used by) operations   76.5 66.1   24.7 (29.2) 
Difference between pension charge and cash contributions   (5.4) (4.5)  (3.1) (2.9) 
Net interest and costs on pension scheme obligation   2.7 -    1.3  -  
Purchase of rental fleet vehicles   (67.4) (52.0)  -  -
Proceeds from sale of rental fleet vehicles   49.5 38.8  -  -
Interest paid   (10.5) (12.6)  (4.9) (6.6)
Interest received   0.2 0.2  2.6 2.8 
Tax paid   (8.1) (7.8)  - -  
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities   37.5 28.2  20.6 (35.9)
Cash flows from investing activities     
     
Acquisition of subsidiaries   (19.4) (17.2)   - -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment   (16.5) (15.3)   - -
Purchase of intangibles    0.1 (1.4)   (0.1)   (0.4)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   12.6 3.7   -  -
Proceeds from sale of business   0.1 1.2   -  -
Dividends received   -   -   14.0 9.5
Net cash (used) / generated by investing activities   (23.1) (29.0)   13.9 9.1
     
Cash flows from financing activities     
     
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares   0.3 0.4  0.3 0.4 
Repayment of loans   (7.5) (7.5)  (7.5) (7.5) 
Dividends paid to group shareholders   (9.5) (8.4)   (9.5) (8.4)
Net cash outflow from financing activities   (16.7) (15.5)  (16.7) (15.5)
     
(Decrease) / Increase in cash and cash equivalents  (2.3) (16.3) 17.8 (42.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  0.5 16.8 (13.0) 29.3
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  (1.8) 0.5 4.8 (13.0) 62 63
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
1. SEGMENTAL REPORTING
At 31 December 2013 the group is organised into two main business segments (2012: same), motor distribution and 
parts distribution. All revenue and profits originate in the United Kingdom.
Primary reporting format - business segments
Year ended   Motor Parts  
31 December 2013  Division Distribution Unallocated Group
 Note £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations  
New Cars  1,130.2 - - 1,130.2
Used Cars  794.4 - - 794.4
Aftersales  342.8 197.1 - 539.9
Revenue  2,267.4 197.1 - 2,464.5
    
Segmental result before amortisation of      
intangible assets and exceptional items  49.6 11.8 (3.0) 58.4
Amortisation of intangible assets 9 - - (1.1) (1.1)
Interest expense  (7.0)  - (3.5) (10.5)
Interest income  - - 0.2 0.2
Net interest and costs on pension scheme obligation - - (2.7) (2.7)
Debt issue costs  - - (0.4) (0.4)
Profit before taxation  42.6 11.8 (10.5) 43.9
Taxation  - - (7.7) (7.7)
Profit for the financial year from 
continuing operations attributable 
to shareholders     36.2
Segmental assets   814.3 137.1 - 951.4
Total assets  814.3 137.1 - 951.4
     
Segmental liabilities  603.2 71.9 - 675.1
Unallocated liabilities      
 - Corporate borrowings  - - 48.3 48.3
Total liabilities  603.2 71.9 48.3 723.4
Other segmental items     
Capital expenditure 10 13.8 1.7 1.0 16.5
Expenditure on Rental Fleet Vehicles 15 67.4 - - 67.4
Depreciation  10, 15 10.8 1.7 - 12.5
Amortisation of intangible assets  9 - - 1.1 1.1
Impairment of trade receivables  13 - 0.2 - 0.2
    
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 64 65
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. SEGMENTAL REPORTING (continued)
Year ended   Motor Parts  
31 December 2012  Division Distribution Unallocated Group
 Note £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
New Cars  953.5 - - 953.5
Used Cars  646.6 - - 646.6
Aftersales  269.9 186.6 - 456.5
Revenue  1,870.0 186.6 - 2,056.6
    
Segmental result before amortisation of      
intangible assets and exceptional items  38.6 11.2 (0.6) 49.2
Amortisation of intangible assets 9 - - (1.1) (1.1)
Inter est expense  (6.9)  (0.1) (5.6) (12.6)
Interest income  - - 0.2 0.2
Debt issue costs  - - (0.4) (0.4)
Profit before taxation  31.7 11.1 (7.5) 35.3
Taxation  - - (8.2) (8.2)
      
Profit for the financial year from 
continuing operations attributable 
to shareholders     27.1
Segmental assets  706.9 125.6 - 832.5
Total assets  706.9 125.6 - 832.5
     
Segmental liabilities  506.6 65.2 - 571.8
Unallocated liabilities      
 - Corporate borrowings  - - 56.9 56.9
Total liabilities  506.6 65.2 56.9 628.7
Other segmental items     
Capital expenditure 10 14.5 0.8 - 15.3
Expenditure on Rental Fleet Vehicles 15 52.0 - - 52.0
Depreciation  10, 15 9.2 1.6 - 10.8
Amortisation of intangible assets  9 - - 1.1 1.1
Impairment of trade receivables  13 - 0.4 - 0.4
   
 Segment assets include property, plant and equipment, inventories, debtors and operating cash. Segment liabilities comprise 
operating liabilities and exclude certain corporate borrowings. Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and 
equipment, including additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
       
Company
The company’s business is to invest in its subsidiaries and, therefore, it operates in a single segment. 64 65
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
2. FINANCE COSTS - NET
 Group Restated* Company Restated*
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
Interest expense    
On amounts wholly repayable within 5 years:    
Interest payable on bank borrowings (4.7) (6.2) (4.9) (6.2)
Interest on consignment vehicle liabilities  (5.8) (5.2)                        - -
Interest and similar charges payable (10.5) (11.4) (4.9) (6.2)
 
Interest income    
Bank interest  0.2 0.2  -  -
Interest received from group companies  -  -  2.6 2.8
Total interest receivable  0.2 0.2  2.6 2.8
    
Finance costs - net  (10.3) (11.2)  (2.3) (3.4) 
    
    
3. PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAXATION    
 Group  Company 
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
The following items have been included in    
arriving at operating profit from operations:    
Staff costs (note 7) 165.3 148.7 6.0 6.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    
 - Owned assets (note 10 and note 15) 7.7 7.4 0.1 0.1
Depreciation of rental fleet vehicles 4.8 3.4 - -
Amortisation of intangible assets 1.1 1.1 0.6 0.5
Profit on disposal of plant, equipment 
and Rental Fleet Vehicles (0.5)  (0.7) - -
Other operating lease rentals payable    
- Property 5.2 8.8 - -
- Plant & equipment 2.2 1.7 - -
Net finance and debt issue costs  10.9 11.8 5.3 6.6
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 2,210 1,800 - -
Dividends from subsidiary companies - - 14.0 9.5
Management charges - - (2.0) (2.0)
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (Revised) as described in Principal Accounting Policies.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 66 67
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
4. TAXATION
 Group Restated* Company Restated*
 2013  2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
Current tax charge / (credit)    
    
Current year  8.8 7.0  (1.1) (1.2) 
Adjustment in respect of prior years  (0.2) 0.3  - - 
  8.6 7.3  (1.1) (1.2)
Deferred tax charge / (credit)    
    
Deferred tax ( 0.7) 0.7 0.8 1.3
Adjustment in respect of prior years  (0.2) -  0.1   - 
  (0.9) 0.7  0.9 1.3
   
Total income tax charge / (credit) in Income Statement  7.7 8.0  (0.2) 0.1
 
   
 Group  Company 
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
Tax on items charged to other comprehensive income    
    
Deferred tax on derivative instruments (0.3)  -  (0.3)  -
Deferred tax on pension liability  0.6 3.3  2.1 1.8
    
The tax charge / (credit) was affected by the following factors:    
    
Standard rate of corporation tax  23.3% 24.5%   23.3% 24.5%
Inter group dividend  -  -  (29.0%) (26.7%)
Items not allowable for taxation  1.5% 1.3%   0.3%   0.2%
Change in rate  (6.2%) (2.9%)  2.0% 4.3%
Adjustments to prior years’ taxation  (1.0%) 0.9%  1.1% 0.6%
Effective Tax Rate  17.6% 23.8%  (2.3%) 2.9%
    
The future tax charge will be affected by the levels of expenditure not deductible for taxation and any profits on sale of properties.
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (Revised) as described in Principal Accounting Policies.
3. PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAXATION (continued)
Services provided by the group’s auditor
The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
    2013 2012
Group              £m £m
Fees payable to the company’s auditor for the audit of the company’s annual accounts  - -
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and their associates for other services to the Group  
The audit of the company’s subsidiaries   0.3 0.3
Total audit fees   0.3 0.3
Taxation compliance services   0.1 0.1
Other taxation and pensions advisory services   - 0.1
Total non-audit fees   0.1 0.2
 
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates for non-audit services to the company are not required to be disclosed 
because the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Details of the company’s policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than 
another supplier and how the auditor’s independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report 
on page 31. Further the group has agreed to the auditor receiving a pre-determined percentage of the contingent gain referred 
to in note 34. This agreement pre-dates the appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor. Both the Audit Committee and auditor have 
considered this agreement and concluded that if doesn’t constitute a threat to auditor independence. 66 67
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
5. DIVIDENDS
                                          
    2013 2012
Group and company   £m £m
Interim Dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013     0.88p   (2012: 0.8p)   3.5 3.1
Final Dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012        1.55p   (2011: 1.38p)  6.0 5.3
   9.5 8.4
The Directors propose a final dividend of 1.70p per share in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2013 (2012: 1.55p).
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included 
as a liability in these financial statements.
6. EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculation of earnings per ordinary share are based on the profit on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to 
shareholders amounting to £36.0m (2012 Restated: £26.2m) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during 
the year of 388,089,402 (2012: 387,108,185).
  
The diluted earnings per share are based on the weighted average number of shares, after taking account of the dilutive impact 
of shares under option of 7,590,189 (2012 Restated: 8,404,347). 
Adjusted earnings per share are stated before amortisation of intangible assets, pension costs and debt issue costs and is 
calculated on profits of £40.2m (2012 Restated: £29.9m) for the year.
    Restated*         
  2013 Restated* 2012         
 2013 Earnings 2012 Earnings
 Earnings per share Earnings per share
Continuing operations £m p £m p
    
Basic EPS
    
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 36.0 9.28 26.2 6.77
Effect of dilutive securities - (0.18) - (0.1)
Diluted EPS 36.0 9.10 26.2   6.67 
    
Adjusted EPS
     
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 36.0 9.28 26.2 6.67
Amortisation of intangible assets  1.1 0.3 1.1 0.3
Net interest and costs on pension scheme obligations  2.7 0.69 2.2 0.6
Debt issue costs 0.4 0.09 0.4 0.1
Adjusted EPS 40.2 10.36 29.9 7.67
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (Revised) as described in Principal Accounting Policies.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 68 69
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
7. INFORMATION REGARDING EMPLOYEES    
 Group  Company 
 2013 2012 2013  2012 
 £m £m £m £m
Employee costs during the year 
(inclusive of executive Directors)
    
Wages and salaries 148.5 133.4 5.1 5.6
Social security costs 14.4 12.9 0.6 0.6
Other pension costs 2.4 2.4 0.3 0.2
 165.3 148.7 6.0 6.4
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 No. No. No. No.
Average number employed during the year        
(including Directors)
        
Productive 1,058 1,042 - -
Selling and distribution 2,740 2,709 - -
Administration 1,780 1,652 84 81
 5,578 5,403 84 81
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
Key management compensation     
 
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 3.0 2.6 3.0 2.6
The key management compensation given above includes Directors and key operational staff.
During the year the aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options by Directors was £nil (2012: £nil). Further details of 
Directors’ remuneration is included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 45.
8. GOODWILL
    
   2013 2012
Group   £m £m
Cost     
As at 1 January   64.7 51.0
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries     12.3 13.7 
As at 31 December   77.0 64.7
Aggregate impairment    
As at 1 January and at 31 December   3.3 3.3
Net book amount at 31 December   73.7 61.4
    
During the year, the acquired goodwill was tested for impairment  in accordance with IAS 36. Following the impairment test, 
no goodwill impairment charge was deemed necessary (2012: £nil).
Goodwill arose in the year on the acquisition of Shields Automotive Limited and Chipperfield Holdings Limited (note 29). 68 69
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
8. GOODWILL (continued)
For the purposes of impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets, the Directors recognise the group’s Cash Generating 
Units (“CGU”) to be connected groupings of dealerships and each subsidiary comprising the Parts Division. The recoverable 
amount of each CGU’s goodwill and intangible assets is based on value in use using Board approved budgeted projections 
over the next five years for each CGU to calculate each CGU’s discounted cashflows to perpetuity, where individual budgets 
are produced for all businesses within the group. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding 
the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period and the impairment 
calculation is sensitive to these key assumptions. Goodwill is represented by £68.4m applicable to the Motor Division and £5.3m 
applicable to the Parts Division. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. The growth rates are based on industry growth forecasts. Changes 
in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market. An annual growth 
rate of 2.75% (2012: 3.0%) (UK GDP) is assumed and a risk adjusted discount rate applied. The discount rates are estimated 
based on the group’s cost of capital which is calculated after consideration of market information and risk adjusted for individual 
circumstances with all units carrying a goodwill value operating in the UK and the motor retail or related sector a single pre-tax 
discount rate of 10.42% (2012: 9.8%) has been applied.
The two key assumptions made by the Directors are the discount rate used and profitability rates beyond the business plan. 
Neither a 1% increase in the discount rate or a 10% reduction in operating profit would result in any impairment being required.
 
9. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
  Customer   
 Licences relationships Brands Total
Group £m £m £m £m
Acquired intangible assets    
Cost  
As at 1 January 2013  5.4 11.5 7.2 24.1
Additions  0.1 - - 0.1
As at 31 December 2013 5.5 11.5 7.2 24.2
Aggregate amortisation
As at 1 January 2013 3.1 4.7 1.5 9.3
Charge for the year 0.5 0.6 - 1.1
As at 31 December 2013 3.6 5.3 1.5 10.4
Net book amount at 31 December 2013 1.9 6.2 5.7 13.8
Acquired intangible assets    
Cost  
As at 1 January 2012  5.0 11.5 6.2 22.7
Additions on business combination 0.4 - 1.0 1.4
As at 31 December 2012 5.4 11.5 7.2 24.1
Aggregate amortisation
As at 1 January 2012 2.6 4.2 1.4 8.2
Charge for the year 0.5 0.5 0.1 1.1
As at 31 December 2012 3.1 4.7 1.5 9.3
Net book amount at 31 December 2012 2.3 6.8 5.7 14.8 70 71
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
9. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (continued)
Within Brands, intangible assets of £5.7m (2012: £5.7m) are deemed by the Directors to have an indefinite useful economic life. 
These Brands arose on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings. The trading activities under these brand names generate 
a substantial part of the group’s revenue and operating profit. The group is continually investing in these brands through 
promotional activities and advertising. Due to this continued investment these brands are judged to have an indefinite useful 
economic life and no amortisation is charged.
All amortisation charges in the year have been recognised within administrative expenses. The impairment testing for intangible 
assets is performed as described in note 8.
     
    Licences
Company £m
Acquired intangible assets
Cost as at 1 January 2013 5.0
Additions 0.1
As at 31 December 2013 5.1
Aggregate amortisation 
As at 1 January 2013 2.8
Charge for the year 0.6
As at 31 December 2013 3.4
Net book amount at 31 December 2013 1.7
Acquired intangible assets
Cost as at 1 January 2012 4.6
Additions 0.4
As at 31 December 2012 5.0
Aggregate amortisation 
As at 1 January 2012 2.3
Charge for the year 0.5
As at 31 December 2012 2.8
Net book amount at 31 December 2012 2.2
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
     Fixtures, 
  Long  Short  fittings, 
 Freehold leasehold leasehold Plant &  tools & 
 property property property machinery equipment Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost 
As at 1 January 2013 138.6 48.8  10.2  14.8 23.7 236.1 
On acquisition (note 29) 11.0 0.1   -  0.1 0.1 11.3 
Additions in year 8.3 1.1  1.3  2.0 3.8 16.5
Reclassification  -  0.4  -  1.6 2.2 4.2
Disposals  (12.1)   -  (0.4)  (1.7) (1.3) (15.5)
As at 31 December 2013 145.8  50.4  11.1  16.8 28.5 252.6
      
Accumulated depreciation                                                           
As at 1 January 2013  5.3            3.9                 4.0 10.0 15.8 39.0 
Charge for the year  0.9  0.9 0.9 2.2 2.8 7.7
Reclassification  - 0.4  -  1.6 2.2 4.2 
Disposals (0.1)  - (0.3)               (1.5) (1.0) (2.9)
As at 31 December 2013 6.1 5.2 4.6 12.3 19.8 48.0
      
Net book value at          
31 December 2013 139.7 45.2  6.5 4.5 8.7 204.6 70 71
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued)
     Fixtures, 
  Long  Short  fittings, 
 Freehold leasehold leasehold Plant &  tools & 
 property property property machinery equipment Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost 
As at 1 January 2012 131.0 47.5  10.3  14.3 25.4 228.5
On acquisition  0.6 0.4  -  0.4 0.4 1.8
Additions in year  10.6  1.0  0.3 1.8 1.6 15.3
Disposals  (3.6)  (0.1)  (0.4) (1.7) (3.7) (9.5)
As at 31 December 2012 138.6  48.8  10.2 14.8 23.7 236.1
      
Accumulated depreciation       
As at 1 January 2012 4.6 3.1 3.1  9.9 16.7 37.4
Charge for the year 0.8 0.8 1.1  2.1 2.6 7.4
Disposals  (0.1)   - (0.2) (2.0) (3.5) (5.8)
As at 31 December 2012 5.3 3.9 4.0 10.0 15.8 39.0
      
Net book value at  
31 December 2012  133.3 44.9 6.2 4.8 7.9 197.1
      
Assets held under finance leases, capitalised and included in plant & machinery and fixtures and fittings:  
   
 2013 2012
 £m £m
   
   
Cost 0.3 0.3
Aggregate depreciation (0.3) (0.3) 
    -  -  
In accordance with IFRS 1 ‘First time adoption of International Reporting Standards’, and IAS 16 ‘Property, plant and 
equipment’ the group has adopted the cost model, electing to use revaluations made under previous UK GAAP as deemed 
cost for its freehold and leasehold properties.      
      
The group’s freehold and leasehold properties were revalued on 31 December 2003, by independent qualified valuers on the 
basis of open market value in England and Scotland by Messrs. Donaldsons, Chartered Surveyors, and in Northern Ireland by 
Messrs. Hamilton Osborne King, Chartered Surveyors. The Directors are satisfied that open market value approximates to fair 
value.   
      Fixtures, fittings,
      tools &
      equipment
Company      £m
      
Cost      
As at 1 January 2013      1.7
Additions      0.1
As at 31 December 2013      1.8
  
Accumulated depreciation       
As at 1 January 2013       1.6
Charge for the year      0.1
As at 31 December 2013      1.7
  
Net book value at 31 December 2013      0.1 72 73
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
11. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
  
  
 2013 2012 
Company  £m £m      
Cost 
As at 1 January and 31 December 57.8 57.8
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:  
 
* Lookers Motor Holdings Limited  Ferraris Piston Service Limited
* Get Motoring UK Limited  Fleet Financial Limited
 Apec Limited  FPS Distribution Limited
 Bolling Investments Limited  Lomond Motors Limited
 BTN Turbocharger Service Limited  Lookers Birmingham Limited
 Charles Hurst Dublin Limited  Lookers Leasing Limited  
 Charles Hurst Limited  Lookers Motor Group Limited
 Charles Hurst Motors Limited  MB South Limited
 Chipperfield Holdings Limited  Platts Harris Limited
 Dutton Forshaw Motor Company Limited  Shields Automotive Limited
All subsidiaries are incorporated and registered in England and operate in England and Wales with the exception of 
Fleet Financial Limited, Charles Hurst Limited and Charles Hurst Motors Limited which are incorporated, registered 
and operate in Northern Ireland and Scotland. Charles Hurst Dublin Limited is incorporated, registered and operates in the 
Republic of Ireland. All subsidiary companies are wholly owned with the exception of Lookers Birmingham Limited and Charles 
Hurst Motors Limited in which 99% shareholdings are held and Get Motoring UK Limited in which a 90% holding is held.
* These subsidiaries are directly owned by Lookers plc whilst the remaining are indirectly owned.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the company’s next Annual Return.
12. INVENTORIES
    
   2013 2012
Group   £m £m
    
Goods for resale   297.3 252.4
Consignment vehicles   149.4 131.7 
   446.7 384.1
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued)
      Fixtures, fittings,
      tools &
      equipment
Company      £m
       
Cost      
As at 1 January and 31 December 2012      1.7
  
Accumulated depreciation 
As at 1 January 2012      1.5 
Charge for the year      0.1
As at 31 December 2012      1.6
  
Net book value at 31 December 2012      0.1 72 73
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
In determining the recoverability of the trade receivables, the group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade 
receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the 
customer base being large and unrelated. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in 
excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
Included in the allowance for doubtful debts are specific trade receivables with a balance of £nil (2012: £224,400) for the group 
and £nil (2012: £nil) for the company which have been placed under liquidation. The impairment represents the difference 
between the carrying amount of the specific trade receivable and present value of the expected liquidation dividend.
   
  2013 2012
 Value of Receivables  Value of Receivables   
Group £m  %  £m % 
Not impaired:
- Neither past due nor impaired 124.5  91.5  98.2 91.0
- Past due up to 3 months but not impaired 11.6  8.5  9.6 9.0
 136.1  100.0  107.8 100.0
 
   
  2013 2012
 Value of Receivables  Value of Receivables  
Company £m  %  £m %
Not impaired: 
- Neither past due nor impaired 188.4  100.0  187.3 100.0
13. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
    
 Group  Company
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
    
Amounts falling due within one year:    
Trade debtors 110.4 91.5  -  -
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (1.7) (1.7)  - -
 108.7 89.8  - -  
Amounts owed by group undertakings - - 178.7   181.8 
Other debtors 27.4 18.0   9.7 5.5 
Prepayments 17.9 16.0   2.4  2.6 
 154.0 123.8     190.8 189.9
The average credit period on sales of goods is 16 days (2012: 16 days).  Trade receivables are provided for based on estimated 
irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods, determined by reference to past default experience.
Included in the group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £11.6m (2012: £9.6m) which are past due 
at the reporting date for which the group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the 
group believes that the amounts are still considered recoverable. The group does not hold any collateral over these balances. 
The average age of these receivables is 45 days (2012: 45 days).
Amounts owed by group undertakings in the company balance sheet are incurred in the normal course of trading and the 
Directors consider there to be no significant credit risk.
  Group  Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts  £m £m £m £m
Balance at beginning of the year  1.7 1.5 - -
Amounts written off during the year  (0.2) (0.4) - -
Increase in allowance recognised in income statement  0.2 0.6 - -
Balance at the end of the year  1.7 1.7 - - 74 75
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
14. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
 Group  Company
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
    
Investments carried at cost:
Non-current
Investments in subsidiaries - - 57.8 57.8
Loans carried at amortised cost:
Current
Loans to subsidiaries - - 178.7 181.8
Disclosed in the financial statements as:
Current other financial assets - - 178.7 181.8
Non-current other financial assets - - 57.8 57.8
15. RENTAL FLEET VEHICLES
Rental Fleet Vehicles comprise passenger car vehicles held by the customer on short term hire, of less than 1 year.
 
 Group  Company
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
Cost 
As at 1 January 41.4 29.8 - -
Acquisitions in year 67.4 52.0 - -
Disposals (53.7) (40.4) - -
As at 31 December 55.1 41.4 - -
 
Accumulated depreciation 
As at 1 January 2.0 0.5 - -
Charge for the year 4.8 3.4 - -
Disposals (4.6) (1.9) - -
As at 31 December 2.2 2.0 - -
Net book value at 31 December 52.9 39.4 - -
16. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS    
 Group  Company
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
    
Cash at bank and in hand   5.2 8.7 18.2 7.2 
Bank overdraft   (7.0) (8.2) (13.4) (20.2) 
Reconciliation to cash flow statements  (1.8)  0.5 4.8 (13.0) 
 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
17. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE    
 Group  Company
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
    
As at 1 January 3.2 3.5 - -
Disposals (2.7) (0.3) - -
At 31 December 0.5  3.2 - -
 
Assets held for sale comprise several freehold and long leasehold properties which are currently being marketed for resale. 
These properties are stated at the lower of net resaleable value or net book value and in the Directors’ opinion are likely to be 
realised during 2014. All assets held for sale relate to the Motor Division. 74 75
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
18. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
 Group  Company
 2013 2012 2013 2012 
 £m £m  £m £m
    
Trade payables  172.0 149.2  4.0 3.2
Repurchase commitments  125.7 103.7  -  -
Consignment vehicle creditors 149.4  131.7  -  -
Amounts owed to group undertakings -   -  43.2 31.0
Rental Fleet Vehicle finance  42.0 32.9  -  -
Other tax and social security payable 10.5  7.8   0.1 0.1 
Other creditors  21.0 9.6   10.1 4.7
Accruals and deferred income  58.3 44.9  20.6 14.2
  578.9 479.8  78.0 53.2
Repurchase commitments due after more than 1 year   24.2 21.0  -  -
  
19. CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES
    
 Group  Company
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
    
Current tax liabilities 8.9  8.4 - -
20. BORROWINGS    
 Group  Company
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
    
Current    
    
Bank overdraft 7.0 8.2 13.4 20.2
Secured bank loans 7.5 7.5   7.5 7.5  
 14.5 15.7   20.9 27.7  
    
Non-current    
    
Secured bank loans  33.8   41.2   33.8 41.2
    
Total borrowings 48.3  56.9  54.7 68.9  
    
 Group  Company
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
Bank loans and overdraft repayable:    
    
Less than one year 14.5 15.7 20.9   27.7
More than one year and not more than two years 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.5 
More than two years and not more than five years 26.3 33.7  26.3 33.7 
 48.3  56.9  54.7 68.9  
    
The principal features of the group’s borrowings are as follows:
At 31 December 2013 the group had 2 principal bank loans:
 (i)  A loan of £41.25m which will continue until 31 March 2016. The loan carries an interest rate of between 1.4% and 
  2.35% above LIBOR.
 (ii)  A revolving loan facility of £55.0m. The facility can be drawn in whole or part at any time and will continue until
   31 March 2016.  The drawn down part of the loan carries an interest rate of between 1.4% and 2.35% above LIBOR. 76 77
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
20. BORROWINGS (continued)
The weighted average interest rate paid during the year on the bank loans was 1.88% (2012: 1.93%).
At 31 December 2013, the group had available £53.1m (2012: £46.8m) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which 
all conditions precedent had been met.
The group’s current facilities were negotiated on 28 November 2011. These facilities were renewed on 7th February 2014 and 
are due for renewal in March 2018 (note 35)
Of this amount £41.25m (2012: £48.75m) is repayable in instalments up until 2016 (2012: 2016).
    
The company is jointly liable under cross guarantees within the group for bank loans and overdrafts which amounted to £nil 
(2012: £nil).
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS    
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of 
measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial 
liability and equity instrument are disclosed in the Principal Accounting Policy note.
 Group  Company
 2013 2012 2013 2012
Categories of financial instruments £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash 5.2 8.7 18.2 7.1
Receivables 108.7 89.8 178.7 179.2
Financial liabilities
Amortised cost 519.5 459.8 102.0 103.2
Financial Instruments Carried at Fair Value
The fair values of the group’s financial instruments are categorised as Level 2, based on the degree to which the fair value is 
observable. Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than unadjusted quoted prices in active markets 
(Level 1 categorisation) that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from 
prices).
Financial Risk Management Objectives
The group’s Corporate Treasury function manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the group through internal risk 
reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks. These risks include market risk (including currency risk, fair 
value interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The group seeks to minimise the effects of these risks, by using derivative financial instruments to hedge these risk exposures.  
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the group’s policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written 
principles on foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial derivatives and non-derivative financial 
instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by the internal 
auditors on a continuous basis. The group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial 
instruments, for speculative purposes.
Market Risk
The group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.  
The group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency 
risk, including:
•  forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on the purchase of parts;
• forward interest rates; and
• interest rate risk management.
During the course of the year there has been no change to the market risk or manner in which the group manages its exposure. 76 77
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  (continued)
Foreign Currency Risk Management
The group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies, hence exposures to exchange rate fluctuations 
arise. Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward foreign exchange contracts.
The carrying amount of the group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date 
is as follows:
 Liabilities Assets
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
    
Euro 10.1 8.3 9.1  8.1 
 
The company had no foreign currency denominated monetary assets or monetary liabilities at the reporting date (2012: same).
The majority of the group’s business is carried out in sterling. However for the limited number of transactions in foreign currency 
the group is mainly exposed to Euros. The following table details the group’s sensitivity to a 10% change in pounds sterling 
against the respective foreign currency. 10% is the rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management 
personnel and represents management’s assessment of the possible change in foreign exchange rates.  The sensitivity analysis 
of the group’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the reporting date has been determined based on the change taking place at 
the beginning of the financial year and held constant throughout the reporting period. A positive number indicates an increase in 
profit or loss and other equity where pounds sterling strengthens against the respective currency.
  Euro Impact
  Group  
    2013  2012
    £m  £m
Profit or loss    0.1  0.1
Interest Rate Risk Management
The group and company are exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest 
rates.  The risk is managed by the group by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, by the 
use of interest rate swap contracts.  Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk 
appetite; ensuring strategies to mitigate risks are applied, by either positioning the balance sheet or protecting interest expense 
through different interest rate cycles.
The group and company’s exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk 
management section of this note.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the reporting date and stipulated 
change taking place at the beginning of the financial year and held constant throughout the reporting period.  A 50 basis point 
change is used when reporting interest risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment 
of the possible change in interest rates.
  + 50 Basis Points   - 50 Basis Points
 Group  Company  Group  Company 
 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012  2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m £m   £m £m £m
Profit or loss 0.5 0.5 - - 0.5 0.5 - -
Under interest rate swap contracts, the group and company agree to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate 
interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts enable the group and company to mitigate the 
risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of issued fixed rate debt held and the cash flow exposures on the issued variable 
rate debt held.  The fair value of interest rate swaps at the year end is determined by discounting the future cash flows using 
the year end curves and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed on the next page.  The average interest rate is 
based on the outstanding balances at the start of the financial year. 78 79
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  (continued)    
Credit Risk Management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the group. The 
group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate, 
as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The group’s exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties 
are controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by the Risk Management Committee annually.
Trade receivables are spread across a large number of counterparties across a large geographical area.
The group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having 
similar characteristics.  The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties 
are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, net of any allowances for losses, represents the 
group’s maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of the value of any collateral obtained.
Liquidity Risk Management
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity 
risk management framework for the management of the group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management 
requirements. The group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing 
facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and 
liabilities.  Included in note 32 is a listing of additional undrawn facilities that the group / company has at its disposal to further 
reduce liquidity risk.
The following table details the group’s and the company’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities.  
The tables below have been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial liabilities including 
interest that will accrue to those liabilities except where the group / company is entitled and intends to repay the liability before 
its maturity.  
 Less than  1-3 3 Months to 1-5 
 1 Month Months 1 Year Years Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
2013 
Variable interest      
rate instruments  7.0 275.0 60.0 58.0 400.0
Fixed interest rate
instruments 79.4 172.0 - - 251.4
 86.4 447.0 60.0 58.0 651.4
2012 
Variable interest      
rate instruments  - 235.4 36.8 65.8 338.0
Fixed interest rate
instruments 70.5 149.2 - - 219.7
 70.5 384.6 36.8 65.8 557.7
Included within variable interest rate instruments in the 1 to 3 month column is an amount of £125.7m (2012: £103.7m) relating 
to repurchase commitments where the liability is only contractually due at the point where the related vehicle is sold to the end 
customer. In this way the group matches the cash outflow in respect of the liability with the cash inflow from the sale.
Also included within variable interest rate instruments in the 1 to 3 months column is an amount of £153.4m (2012: £126.4m) 
relating to vehicle stocking loans.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 78 79
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
21. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
Included within variable interest rate instruments in the 1 to 3 month column is an amount of £149.3m (2012: £131.7m) relating 
to consignment stock where the liability is contractually due for payment when the related vehicle is adopted by the group.  
Adoption usually occurs for the purpose of selling the vehicle to the end customer at which point the cash outflow in respect of 
the liability matches the cash inflow from the sale.
  Less than 1-3 3 Months 1-5 
 1 Month Months to 1 Year Years Total
Company £m £m £m £m £m
2013 
Variable interest 
rate instruments 13.4 - 7.5 33.8 54.7
Fixed interest rate 
instruments 73.9 4.1 - - 78.0
 87.3 4.1 7.5 33.8 132.7
2012 
Variable interest 
rate instruments - 3.2 3.8 49.5 56.5
Fixed interest rate 
instruments 38.7 - - - 38.7
 38.7 3.2 3.8 49.5 95.2
The objectives, policies and strategies for holding or issuing financial instruments adopted by the Board are given in the 
Directors’ Report. Instruments held at the year end are set out in note 32.
Capital Risk Management
The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the 
return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The group’s overall strategy remains unchanged 
since 2011.
The capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 20, cash and cash equivalents 
and equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 24 to 28.
The group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
The group’s risk management committee reviews the capital structure on a semi-annual basis. As part of this review, 
the committee considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class capital.
Gearing Ratio
The gearing ratio at the year end is as follows:
  
   2013 2012
   £m £m
Debt    48.3 56.9
Cash and cash equivalents   (5.2) (8.7)
Net Debt   43.1 48.2
Total Equity   228.0 203.8
Net debt to equity ratio   18.9% 23.7%
Debt is defined as long-term and short-term borrowings (excluding derivatives and financial guarantee contracts) 
as detailed in note 20.
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the group that are managed as capital.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 80 81
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
22. PROVISIONS    
  Dilapidations Closure costs Total
Group  £m £m £m
    
As at 1 January 2013 0.8 0.6 1.4
Additions 0.4 - 0.4
As at 31 December 2013 1.2 0.6 1.8
Provisions have been allocated between current and non-current as follows:    
   2013 2012
   £m £m
    
Current   1.0 0.6 
Non-current   0.8 0.8
   1.8 1.4 
Dilapidations
The group operates from a number of leasehold premises under full repairing leases. The provision recognises that repairs are 
required to put the buildings back into the state of repair required under the leases. Currently, these leases are expected to 
expire between 2014 and 2018.
Closure Costs
The group terminates specific trading units when they are not deemed viable to continue. The provision recognises the expected 
costs associated with these closures and are expected to be utilised during 2014.
23. DEFERRED TAXATION    
    
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 20% (2012: 23%).  
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below:   
 Group Restated* Company Restated*
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 8.6 11.4    (6.3) (5.7)
Adjustment to Prior Year Deferred Taxation (note 4)  (0.2) -   0.1 -
Change of rate – (credited) / charged to Income Statement (note 4) (2.3) (1.0)  0.4  0.4
Change of rate – charged to Comprehensive Income 1.3  -  0.4 -
On acquisition of subsidiary  1.4 -   -  -
Charged to Income Statement (note 4) 1.7 1.7   0.4 0.9
Credited to statement of Comprehensive Income
in respect of pension scheme liabilities (0.6) (3.5)  (2.1) (1.9)
Charged to statement of Comprehensive Income
with respect to prior year derivative instruments  0.3 -    0.3  -
As at 31 December 10.2  8.6  (6.8) (6.3) 
    
The deferred tax credited to equity during the current year related to the deferred tax movement on the pension liability and 
derivatives. The prior year related to the deferred tax movement on the pension liability.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred 
tax assets because it is probable that there will be future taxable profits available.
 
The movements on deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as 
permitted by IAS 12) during the period are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a 
legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
The Finance Act 2013, which was substantively enacted in July 2013, included provisions to reduce the rate of corporation 
tax to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. Accordingly, deferred tax balances have been 
revalued to the lower rate of 20% in these accounts, which has resulted in a credit to the profit & loss account of £2.3m 
and a charge to comprehensive income of £1.3m.
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (Revised) as described in Principal Accounting Policies.
   
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 80 81
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
23. DEFERRED TAXATION (continued)
Group    
Deferred tax liabilities
  Accelerated tax  
  depreciation Capital gains Total
  £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2013  18.5 2.6 21.1
On acquisition  0.9 0.8 1.7
Charged to Income Statement  (0.5) (0.8) (1.3)
As at 31 December 2013  18.9 2.6 21.5
    
Deferred tax assets   Short
  Employee  term timing 
 Losses benefits differences Total
 £m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2013 -  (10.1) (2.4)  (12.5) 
On acquisition   (0.2)  -  - (0.2)
Charged to Income Statement   0.1  0.5  (0.2) 0.4
Credited to Statement of Comprehensive Income  -  0.7  0.3 1.0
As at 31 December 2013  (0.1)  (8.9) (2.3) (11.3)
    
Net deferred tax liability    
As at 31 December 2013    10.2
    
As at 31 December 2012    8.6
Company    
Deferred tax assets
 Employee  Accelerated tax 
 benefits Provisions depreciation Total
 £m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2013 (4.0)  (2.2) (0.1) (6.3)
Charged to Income Statement 0.6  0.3 -  0.9
Credited to Statement 
of Compr ehensive Income  (1.7)  0.3  - (1.4)
As at 31 December 2013 (5.1)  (1.6) (0.1) (6.8)
As at 31 December 2012      (6.3)
24. SHARE CAPITAL    
    
 2013   2012
Group and Company Shares £m Shares £m
    
Authorised    
Ordinary shares of 5p each  480,000,000 24.0 480,000,000 24.0
    
Allotted, called up and fully paid 
ordinary shares of 5p each     
    
As at 1 January   387,842,930 19.4 386,641,830 19.3
Allotted under share option schemes 428,721 - 1,201,100 0.1
As at 31 December  388,271,651 19.4 387,842,930 19.4
  
Potential Issues of Ordinary Shares 
Options on 657,715 ordinary shares in relation to the employee share save scheme lapsed or were forfeited during 2013 and 
156,443 options were exercised during the year. 
The number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised 
are given below:
 Exercise  2013 2012
 price Exercise Number Number
Year of grant pence  period (5p Shares) (5p Shares)
2011 ESOS 61.00 2014-2021 1,672,130 1,672,130
2012 ESOS 62.75 2015-2022 346,820 346,820
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 82 83
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
24. SHARE CAPITAL  (continued)
Employee ShareSave Scheme 
The Employee ShareSave scheme was available to all eligible employees and was based on Save As You Earn (SAYE) savings 
contracts with options exercisable within a period from the conclusion of a three year term as appropriate from the date of 
grant. Under the terms and conditions of this scheme, for every month (up to no more than six months) an employee fails to 
contribute the agreed monthly amount determined under the rules of the scheme, the last date exercisable will be delayed 
by one month. The latest grant under the ShareSave scheme was made in the year ended 2012. No further grants have been 
made under this scheme. Options outstanding under this scheme at 31 December 2013 were 5,571,239 (2012: 6,385,397)
The total expense included within operating profit from continuing operations in respect of share based payments was £nil 
(2012: £nil).
25. SHARE PREMIUM     
    
  
Group and Company     £m 
As at 1 January 2013 75.3 
Arising on issue of new shares 0.3 
As at 31 December 2013 75.6 
As at 1 January 2012 75.0 
Arising on issue of new shares 0.3 
As at 31 December 2012 75.3  
26. CAPITAL REDEMPTION RESERVE    
    
Group and Company    £m
    
As at 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013    14.6
27. OTHER RESERVE     
 Group Company
     £m £m
As at 1 January 2013   (1.4) (1.1)
Foreign exchange adjustment   0.3 -
As at 31 December 2013   (1.1) (1.1)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 82 83
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
28. RETAINED EARNINGS
 Restated* Restated* 
 Group Company
     £m £m
As at 1 January 2012 89.3 13.0
Net profit for the year 26.2 7.7
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes (14.9) (6.2)
Dividends to shareholders (8.4) (8.4)
Non-controlling interest in subsidiary undertaking (0.1)  -
Deferred taxation on pension liability 3.3 1.8
As at 31 December 2012 95.4 7.9
Net profit for the year 36.0 11.5
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes (3.3) (10.3)
Deferred taxation on pension liability 0.6 2.1
Fair value on derivative instruments 1.5 1.5
Movement in deferred taxation on derivative instruments (0.3) (0.3)
Rate adjustment (1.3) (0.4)
Dividends to shareholders (9.5) (9.5)
Foreign exchange adjustment (0.3) -
As at 31 December 2013 118.8 2.5
Group retained earnings include £17.1m (2012: £17.1m) of non-distributable reserves relating to properties which had been 
revalued under UK GAAP, but treated as deemed cost under IFRS.
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (revised) as detailed in the Principal Accounting Policies.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 84 85
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
29. ACQUISITIONS
In line with the group strategy of growth by selective acquisition the following companies were acquired during the year.  
    
(a) Acquisition of Shields Automotive Limited and its subsidiaries
On 16th May 2013 Lookers Motor Group Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lookers plc, acquired the entire issued share 
capital of Shields Automotive Limited, a company incorporated in Scotland for a total consideration of £8.8m. The acquisition has 
been accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting. 
 Book value at  Fair value at
 acquisition Revaluation acquisition
  £m £m £m
Tangible fixed assets 10.2 (1.5)  8.7 
Vehicle and other stocks 2.9 -  2.9
Debtors (gross contractual amounts receivable) 0.5  - 0.5
Overdraft and loans (2.3)  - (2.3)
Payables (4.0)  - (4.0)
Deferr ed tax -  (1.4) (1.4)
 7.3 (2.9) 4.4 
Goodwill     4.4
Consideration in cash     8.5
Consideration retained     0.3
Total Consideration     8.8
The fair value adjustments above principally arise from the Directors revaluation of the properties acquired on acquisition and 
deferred tax adjustment in relation to capital gains tax on properties.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions of the above company is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the distribution 
of the group’s products in new markets and the anticipated operating synergies derived from the combination. The summarised 
Income statement and statement of changes in equity of Shields Automotive Limited, are disclosed below, for the year ended 31 
December 2013.  
  Period from 
 Period to acquisition to
 16th May 2013   31 December 2013 Total
  £m £m  £m
T ur nover  11.0  15.2 26.2
Operating profit  0.5  0.4  0.9
Net interest payable  -  - -
Profit before taxation 0.5   0.4 0.9
Taxation  - (0.1)  (0.1)
Profit and total recognised gains for the period  0.5 0.3  0.8
 
The business acquired during the year used cash resources amounting to £1.4m from the group’s cash resources.
(b) Acquisition of Chipperfield Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries
On 2nd October 2013 Lookers Motor Group Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lookers plc, acquired the entire issued share 
capital of Chipperfield Holdings Limited, a company incorporated in the U.K. for a total consideration of £10.4m. The acquisition 
has been accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting.
   Book and
   Fair value at
   acquisition
    £m
Tangible fixed assets     1.1 
Stocks     2.1
Other assets (gross contractual amounts receivable)     1.4
Cash     2.0
Payables     (3.8)
     2.8 
Goodwill     7.7
Consideration in cash     10.5
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of the above company is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the distribution of 
the group’s products in new markets and the anticipated operating synergies derived from the combination. The summarised 
income statement and statement of change in equity of Chipperfield Holdings Limited, are disclosed below, for the year ended 
31 December 2013.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 84 85
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
29. ACQUISITIONS (continued)    
    Period from 
 Period to  acquisition to
 2nd October 2013  31 December 2013  Total
 £m  £m  £m
T urnover 23.9  6.2  30.1
Operating profit 1.1  0.3  1.4
Net interest payable - -  -
Profit before taxation 1.1  0.3  1.4
Taxation (0.1)  -  (0.1)
Profit and total recognised gains for the period   1.0  0.3  1.3
  
The business acquired during the year used cash resources amounting to £1.4m to the Group’s net operating cash flows.
(c) Other Acquisitions
On 11th December 2013 the group acquired certain trade and assets from the administrators of The Verve Limited. The goodwill 
arising on this amounted to £0.2m.
30. PENSIONS
Pension Scheme - The Lookers Pension Plan
The pension plan “The Lookers Pension Plan”, which is a defined benefit scheme, provides benefits based on final pensionable 
salary. The Lookers Pension Plan, which is a funded scheme, is administered by Aon Hewitt Limited. The scheme has been 
registered with the Registrar of Pensions. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the group, being held in 
separate funds by the Trustees of the Lookers Pension Plan.
The group has applied IAS 19 (Revised) to this scheme and the following disclosures relate to this standard. The group recognises 
any actuarial gains and losses in each period in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The pension charge for the scheme for 2013 was £1.3m ( 2012: £1.3m as restated* ).
A valuation update was made as at 31 December 2013 by a qualified independent actuary to take account of the IAS 19 
requirements.  Scheme liabilities have been calculated using a consistent projected unit valuation method and compared to the 
scheme’s assets at their 31 December market value.
 Based on actuarial advice and using the assumptions below in calculating the scheme’s liabilities, the total value of these liabilities 
under IAS 19 is £106.5m at 31 December 2013 (2012: £90.1m). 
The fair value of assets of the scheme on each class of assets are:      
   Market value Market value
   2013 2012
    £m  £m
Equities   34.9 45.0 
Target return funds   23.5 -
Corporate bonds   10.8 11.4
Gilts   12.2 15.5
Cash   0.4 1.4
Total fair value of assets   81.8 73.3
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
The amounts recognised in the Income Statements are as follows:
       Restated*
     2013 2012
     £m £m
Non investment expenses     0.6 0.8
Interest on obligation     4.1 3.9
Interest income on scheme assets      (3.4) (3.4)
Total defined benefit expense     1.3 1.3
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (revised) as detailed in the Principal Accounting Policies. 86 87
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
30. PENSIONS (continued)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 
  Restated*
 2013 2012
 £m £m
Opening defined benefit obligation 90.1 79.9
Contributions by employees -  -
Interest cost 4.1 3.9
Actuarial losses 16.2 10.4
Benefits paid (3.9) (4.1)
Closing defined benefit obligation 106.5 90.1
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
  Restated*
 2013 2012
 £m £m
   
Opening fair value of scheme assets 73.3 68.1
Interest income 3.4 3.4
Actuarial gains 5.9 3.4
Contributions by employer  3.7 3.3
Benefits paid (3.9) (4.1)
Non-investment expenses paid (0.6) (0.8)
Closing fair value of scheme assets 81.8 73.3
None of the scheme’s assets were invested in Lookers plc or property occupied by Lookers plc. The company contributed an 
additional £3.7m in 2013 (2012: £3.3m) to fund accruing pensions and expects to maintain a similar level of pension contributions 
in 2014.
   Restated*
 2013  2012
 £m £m
Total amount of actuarial losses recognised in the Statement  
of Comprehensive Income in the year (10.3) (6.2)
Cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the 
Statement of Comprehensive Income at the year end (32.1) (20.9)
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total 
scheme assets are as follows:
Equities 42.6% 61.4%
Target return funds 28.7% -
Bonds 13.2% 15.5%
Gilts 15.0%  21.2%
Cash 0.5% 1.9%
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (Revised) as described in Principal Accounting Policies.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 86 87
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
30. PENSIONS (continued)
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are as follows: 
     
     
 2013   2012
Discount rate 4.8%  4.6 %
Future salary increases -  -
Future pension increases 2.3% - 3.25%  1.7% - 2.75 %
Life expectancy at age 65 for:
current pensioners - males 87.2  87.2
current pensioners - females 89.5  89.5
future pensioners - males 88.1  88.2
future pensioners - females 90.5  90.7
Sensitivity analysis
For information, the table below gives a broad indication of the impact on the IAS 19 valuation for changes in the key 
assumptions: 
Change in assumption  Approximate impact on current deficit
Reduce discount rate by 0.1% p.a. + £1.9m
Increase inflation assumptions by 0.1% p.a. + £1.3m
Change mortality assumption to SAPS SINA (-1 year) CMI 2011 (1%) + £3.4m
Amounts for the current and previous year are as follows: 
 2013 Restated*
 £m £m
Defined benefit obligation (106.5) 90.1
Scheme assets 81.8 73.3
Deficit 24.7 16.8
Experience losses / (gains) on plan assets 5.9 (2.6)
Defined Contribution Scheme
The group and company provide pension arrangements for certain Directors and employees under defined contribution 
schemes and has a defined contribution Stakeholder Pension Scheme for employees.  The Income Statement account charge 
for the year in respect of defined contribution schemes was £2.8m (2012: £2.4m).
Pension Scheme - The Dutton Forshaw Group Pension Plan
The Dutton Forshaw Group’s pension plan “The Dutton Forshaw Group Pension Plan”, which is a defined benefit scheme provides 
benefits based on final pensionable salary. The Dutton Forshaw Group Pension Plan, which is a funded scheme, is administered 
by Aon Hewitt Limited. The scheme has been registered with the Registrar of Pensions. The assets of the scheme are held 
separately from those of the group, being held in separate funds by the Trustees of the Dutton Forshaw Group Pension Plan.
The group has applied IAS 19 (Revised) to this scheme and the following disclosures relate to this standard. The group recognises 
any actuarial gains and losses in each period in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
A valuation update was made as at 31 December 2013 by a qualified independent actuary to take account of the IAS 19 
requirements.  Scheme liabilities have been calculated using a consistent projected unit valuation method and compared to the 
scheme’s assets at their 31 December market value.
 Based on actuarial advice and using the assumptions below in calculating the scheme’s liabilities, the total value of these liabilities 
under IAS 19 is £103.4m at 31 December 2013 (2012: £105.2m).
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (Revised) as described in Principal Accounting Policies.  88 89
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
30. PENSIONS  (continued)
The fair value of assets of the scheme and the expected rates of return on each class of assets are:
  
    Market Market
    value value
    2013 2012
      £m £m
Absolute / Target Return Funds    23.6 21.7
Equities    29.6 26.0
Corporate Bonds    15.5 14.8
Gilts    13.7 15.2
Cash    1.5   0.2
Total fair value of assets    83.9 77.9
The amounts recognised in the Income Statements are as follows:
      Restated*
     2013 2012
     £m £m
Current service cost      - -
Non investment expenses      0.2 -
Total included in administrative expenses      0.2 -
Interest on obligation     4.7 4.5
Interest income on scheme assets     (3.5) (3.6)
Total included in finance costs (note 2)     1.2 0.9
Total defined benefit expenses     1.4 0.9
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
 
  Restated*
 2013 2012
 £m £m
Opening defined benefit obligation 105.2 94.7
Interest cost 4.7 4.5
Actuarial (gains) / losses (2.9) 10.4
Benefits paid (3.6) (4.4)
Closing defined benefit obligation 103.4 105.2
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (Revised) as described in Principal Accounting Policies. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 88 89
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
30. PENSIONS  (continued)
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
  Restated*
 2013 2012
 £m £m
Opening fair value of scheme assets 77.9 74.5
Interest income 3.5 3.6
Actuarial gains 4.2 3.0
Contributions by employer  2.1 1.2
Contributions by employees  - -
Benefits paid (3.6) (4.4)
Non investment expenses paid (0.2) -
Closing fair value of scheme assets    83.9   77.9
None of the scheme’s assets were invested in Lookers plc or property occupied by Lookers plc. The company contributed an 
additional £2.1m in 2013 (2012: £1.2m) to fund accruing pensions and expects to make a similar level of pension contribution in 
2013.
  Restated*
 2013 2012
 £m £m
Total amount of actuarial gains / (losses) recognised in the Statement 
of Comprehensive Income in the year 7.1 (8.8)
Cumulative amount of actuarial gains / (losses) recognised in the  
Statement of Comprehensive Income at the year end 12.9 (20.0)
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total 
scheme assets are as follows:  2013 2012
Equities 35.3% 33.4%
Absolute / Target Return Funds 28.1% 27.8%
Corporate Bonds 18.5% 19.0%
Gilts 16.3% 19.5%
Cash 1.8% 0.3%
 
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are as follows:
 2013 2012
Discount rate 4.8% 4.6%
Future pension increases 3.25% 2.8%
Life expectancy at age 65 for: 
current pensioners   - males 87.2 87.3
current pensioners   - females 89.5 89.5
future pensioners   - males 88.1 88.2
future pensioners   - females 90.5 90.7
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (Revised) as described in Principal Accounting Policies.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 90 91
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
30. PENSIONS  (continued)
Sensitivity analysis
For information, the table below gives a broad indication of the impact on the IAS 19 valuation for changes in the key 
assumptions: 
Change in assumption  Approximate impact on current deficit
Reduce discount rate by 0.1% p.a. + £1.9m
Increase inflation assumptions by 0.1% p.a. + £1.2m
Change mortality assumption to SAPS SINA (-1 year) CMI 2011 (1%) + £3.3m
Where investments are held in bonds and cash, the expected long-term rate of return is taken to be the yields generally prevailing on 
such assets at the balance sheet date.  A higher rate of return is expected on equity investments, which is based more on realistic future 
expectations than on the returns that have been available historically.  The overall expected long-term rate of return on assets is then the 
average of these rates taking into account the underlying asset portfolio of the pension plan.
Amounts for the current period are as follows: 2013 2012
 £m £m
Defined benefit obligation 103.4 105.2
Scheme assets 83.9 77.9
Deficit 19.5 27.3
Experience gains on plan assets (4.2) (2.9)
31. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The company bears certain administrative costs and interest costs centrally which are recharged to the group.  In addition, the 
company charges management charges and receives dividends from its subsidiaries. The balances with group undertakings are 
summarised in the table below.
 Amounts owed by Group Amounts owed to Group
 undertakings (Note 13) undertakings (Note 18)
 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £m £m £m £m
Bolling Investments Limited 46.3 41.1 - -
Lookers Motor Holdings Limited 65.5 65.5 - -
Charles Hurst Limited - 5.5 1.7 -
Charles Hurst Motors Limited - - - -
Charles Hurst (Dublin) Limited 0.9 - - -
Platts Harris Limited 1.6 1.2 - -
FPS Distribution Limited 0.3 5.3 - -
Ferraris Piston Service Limited - 1.8 - -
Apec Braking Limited 1.1 2.5 - -
BTN Turbocharger Service Limited 0.5 1.5 - -
Lookers Motor Group Limited 54.0 38.3 22.8 21.7
Lookers Birmingham Limited - - 1.3 0.9
MB South Limited - - 5.3 0.6
Dutton Forshaw Motor Company Limited 7.8 18.5 6.7 6.8
Shields Automotive Limited - - 4.3 -
Lomond Motors Limited 0.1 - 0.1 -
Dormant Companies 0.6 0.6 1.0 1.0
 178.7 181.8 43.2 31.0
Key management compensation is included in note 7.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 90 91
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
32. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
The objectives, policies and strategies for holding or issuing financial instruments adopted by the Board are given in the Directors’ 
Report. Details regarding the group’s derivative financial instruments at 31 December 2013 and 2012 are given in note 21. The group’s 
other financial assets and liabilities are detailed below.
Fair Values
The fair values of the group’s trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade payables (which include liabilities in respect of  
interest-bearing consignment stock), short-term provisions and loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed 
to approximate to their book value. The fair value of the group’s non-current provisions is not materially different from its fair value.
The group’s other non-current financial liabilities are all subject to floating interest rates and so their fair value also approximates to 
book value. The treatment of Fair Value of derivative is discussed in section 20 of the Principal Accounting Policies.
Maturity of Financial Liabilities
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the group’s non-current financial liabilities at 31 December 2013 and 2012 are given 
in note 21.
Borrowing Facilities
The group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 December 2013 and 2012 which expire:
 2013 2012 
 £m £m
Within two to five years 53.1 46.8
The above facilities represent loans and overdrafts, for which the facilities have been confirmed.
Interest Rate Profile
Financial assets comprise cash of £5.2m (2012: £8.7m). 
An analysis of the group’s loans and overdrafts between fixed and floating rates is given below.
 2013 2012
 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities
 £m £m
Floating Rate 48.3 56.9
 
Interest rates on the group’s floating rate liabilities are based on the London Interbank Rate.  At 31 December 2013 all of the group’s bank 
loans and overdrafts are potentially exposed to re-pricing within 12 months of the balance sheet date (2012: 12 months).
Foreign Currencies 
The majority of the group’s activities are transacted in sterling although some of its purchases are made in US Dollars and Euros. The 
group manages the foreign currency risk associated with these foreign currency purchases through the use of forward contracts as a 
commercial hedge. The group has not sought hedge accounting under IAS 39 in respect of these contracts. 92 93
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
33. OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS - MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS
  2013  2012
  Property Plant & equipment Property Plant & equipment
Group  £m £m £m £m
Commitments under non-cancellable  
operating leases expiring: 
Within one year  7.2 2.1 8.6 1.7
Within two to five years  23.9 1.3 35.6 0.5
After five years  36.9  - 40.1 -
  68.0 3.4 84.3 2.2
34. CONTINGENT GAIN
Additional amounts may be receivable from HM Revenue & Customs in respect of overpayments of VAT in previous years. 
These will not be recognised until they have been agreed. It is not practical to estimate the potential gain at the year end.
35. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
After the year end the group renegotiated the medium-term banking facilities and now comprises:
(i)  A loan of £50.0m which will continue until 31 March 2018; and
(ii)  A revolving loan facility of £90.0m. The facility can be drawn in whole or part at nay time and will continue until 31 March 2018
The interest and repayment conditions for both principal bank loans are unchanged from the previous arranged negotiated on 
28 November 2011. 92 93
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
FRANCHISES
Alfa Romeo
Cardiff
Aston Martin
Belfast
Audi
Ayr
Dublin
Edinburgh
Glasgow
Stirling
Bentley
Belfast
Chrysler
Belfast
Citroën
Belfast
Blackpool
Liverpool
Newport
Preston
Dacia
Belfast
Chester
Colchester
Newtownabbey
Newtownards
Stockport
Ferrari
Belfast
Fiat
Stockport
Ford
Braintree
Chelmsford
Colchester
Sheffield North
Sheffield South
South Woodham Ferrers
Sudbury
Honda
Bexleyheath
Derby
Nottingham
Hyundai
Dundonald
Motherwell
Jaguar
Belfast
Glasgow
London - Park Royal
Motherwell
Jeep
Belfast
Cardiff
Kia
Belfast
Sheffield
Stockport
Land Rover
Belfast
Bishop’s Stortford
Chelmsford
Chipperfield
Colchester
Glasgow North
Glasgow South
London - Battersea
London - Park Royal
Motherwell
Lexus
Belfast
Hatfield
Maserati
Belfast
Mercedes-Benz
Ashford
Brighton
Eastbourne
Gatwick
Maidstone
Tonbridge
Nissan
Belfast
Chester
Motherwell
Newtownabbey
Newtownards
Peugeot
Belfast
Cardiff
Motherwell
Newport
Renault
Belfast
Chester
Colchester
Newtownabbey
Newtownards
Stockport
Seat
Manchester
Stockport
Skoda
Manchester
Stockport
Smart
Brighton
Gatwick
Maidstone
Tonbridge
Toyota
Belfast
Dundonald
Newtownabbey
Vauxhall
Belfast
Birkenhead
Birmingham
Chester
Ellesmere Port
Lisburn
Liverpool
Portadown
Selly Oak
Speke 
St. Helens
Warrington
Yardley
Volkswagen
Battersea
Blackburn
Blackpool
Darlington
Glasgow (Commercial)
Morden
Northallerton 
Preston
Teesside
Volvo
Colchester
Glasgow
Motherwell
USED CAR 
SUPERMARKETS
Bristol
Burton-on-Trent
Belfast
Newtownabbey
Newtownards
MOTORCYCLES 
BMW - Newtownabbey
Yamaha - Belfast
TYRES
Belfast - Boucher Road
Belfast - Sydenham Road
Coleraine
Omagh
Portadown
SERVICE CENTRES
Renault Chelmsford
Volvo Chelmsford
Vauxhall Dundonald
LOOKERS LEASING
Harrogate
Manchester
FLEET FINANCIAL
Belfast
VEHICLE RENTAL 
SERVICES
Beaconsfield
PARTS DISTRIBUTION
FPS 
Barking
Birmingham
Bristol 
Cardiff
Charlton
Colchester
Glasgow
Leeds
Leicester
Liverpool
Luton
Maidstone
Manchester
Newcastle
Nottingham
Preston
Reading
Sheffield
Southampton
Staples Corner
Apec
Bristol
BTN Turbocharger Services
Uxbridge
AGRICULTURAL DIVISION
Darley Dale
Tuxford
Golf & Turf Machinery
Tuxford
Major Subsidiary 
Companies
Lookers Motor Holdings Limited
Bolling Investments Limited
Charles Hurst Limited
Charles Hurst Motors Limited
Fleet Financial (N.I.) Limited
Lookers Motor Group Limited
Lookers Birmingham Limited
MB South Limited
FPS Distribution Limited
Apec Limited
BTN Turbocharger 
Service Limited
Dutton Forshaw Motor 
Company Limited
Lookers Leasing Limited
Lomond Motors Limited
Platts Harris Limited
Ferraris Piston Service Limited
GET Motoring UK Limited
Charles Hurst Dublin Limited
Shields Automotive Limited
Website: www.lookers.co.uk
Trading Outlets and Interests 
in Major Subsidiary Companies 94 95
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Five Year Record
    Restated* 
 Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
 £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 1,749.0 1,883.8 1,898.5 2,056.6 2,464.5
Profit before tax, amortisation, exceptional 
items, debt issue costs and pension costs 28.3 33.6 33.8 38.0 48.1
Amortisation/impairment  (1.7) (1.3) (1.3) (1.1) (1.1)
Net exceptional items (14.2) - - - -
Net interest on Pension scheme obligation - - - (2.2) (2.7)
Debt issue costs (0.9) (1.2) (1.1) (0.4) (0.4)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 11.5 31.1 31.4 34.3 43.9
Taxation (3.5) (8.2) (6.2) (8.0) (7.7)
Profit attributable to shareholders 8.0 22.9 25.1 26.2 36.0
Non-controlling interests - - 0.1 0.1 0.2
Equity dividend per share
†
 -  1.8p 2.18p 2.35p 2.58p
Basic earnings per ordinary share 2.79p 5.97p 6.54p 6.77p 9.28p
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 7.32p 6.63p 7.17p 7.37p 10.36p
As at year end
Shareholders’ interests
Share capital 19.2 19.2 19.3 19.4 19.4
Reserves
 - non-distributable **103.9 103.9 105.4 105.8 106.4
 - distributable **37.0 58.5 72.4 78.6 102.2
Net assets 160.1 181.6 197.1 203.8 228.0
† 
Dividends per share are based on interim dividend paid and final dividend declared for the year.
* Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 (Revised) as described in Principal Accounting Policies.
** Represented to more accurately reflect the underlying records. 94 95
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notice of Meeting
Incorporated in England under the Companies Act 1985 Registered No. 111876
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the one hundred and fourth Annual General Meeting of Lookers plc (the “Company”) will be held 
at 776 Chester Road, Stretford, Manchester, M32 0QH on Thursday 29 May 2014 at 10.00 am to transact the business set out 
below.  Resolutions 1 to 14 below will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 16 to 18 will be proposed as special 
resolutions: 
1 To receive the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 together with the reports thereon of the Directors 
and the Auditor. 
2 To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
3 To declare a final dividend of 1.70p per ordinary share.
4 To re-elect as a Director A. C. Bruce, who retires by rotation in accordance with paragraphs (B) and (C) of Article 67 
 of the Articles of Association.
5 To re-elect as a Director R. A. Gregson, who retires by rotation in accordance with paragraphs (B) and (C) of Article 67 
 of the Articles of Association.
6 To re-elect as a Director D. C. A. Bramall, who retires in accordance with paragraph (D) of Article 67 
 of the Articles of Association. 
7 To re-elect as a Director W. Holmes, who retires in accordance with paragraph (D) of Article 67 
 of the Articles of Association. 
8 To re-elect as a Director J. E. Brown, who retires in accordance with paragraph (D) of Article 67 
 of the Articles of Association.
9 To re-elect as a Director P . M. White, who retires in accordance with paragraph (D) of Article 67 
 of the Articles of Association.
10 To re-elect as a Director N. A. Davis, who retires in accordance with paragraph (D) of Article 67 
 of the Articles of Association.
11 To re-elect as a Director N. J. McMinn, who retires in accordance with paragraph (B) of Article 64 
of the Articles of Association.
12 To re-elect as a Director R. S. Walker, who retires in accordance with paragraph (B) of Article 64 
 of the Articles of Association. 
13 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor. 
14 To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditor.  96 97
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Ordinary resolution – authority to allot shares
15 That the Directors are generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to 
exercise all the powers of the company to allot shares in the company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any 
security into such shares (“Allotment Rights”), but so that:
 (a) the maximum amount of shares that may be allotted or made the subject of Allotment Rights under this authority are  
 shares with an aggregate nominal value of £6,471,457;
 (b) this authority shall expire on 29 November 2015 or, if earlier, on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of  
 the company;
 (c)  the company may make any offer or agreement before such expiry which would or might require shares to be allotted  
 or Allotment Rights to be granted after such expiry; and
 (d) all authorities vested in the Directors on the date of the notice of this meeting to allot shares or to grant Allotment  
 Rights that remain unexercised at the commencement of this meeting are revoked.
Special resolution – disapplication of pre-emption rights
16 That the Directors are empowered to allot equity securities (as defined in Section 560 of the Companies Act 2006) pursuant 
to the authority conferred on them by resolution 14 in the notice of this meeting or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if 
Section 561 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: 
 (i) the allotment of equity securities in connection with any rights issue or open offer (each as referred to in the Financial 
Conduct Services Authority’s listing rules) or any other pre-emptive offer that is open for acceptance for a period 
determined by the Directors to the holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the company on the register of members  
at such fixed record date as the Directors may determine in proportion to their holdings of ordinary shares in the capital  
of the company, subject in each case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary  
or appropriate in relation to fractions of such securities, treasury shares, any legal or practical problems in relation to  
any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange; and 
 (ii) the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to paragraph (i) above) of equity securities having an aggregate nominal value of  
 £970,719.
 and shall expire when the authority conferred on the Directors by resolution 14 in the notice of this meeting expires, save that 
the company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted 
after such expiry. 
Special resolution – authority to purchase own shares on market
17 That the company is generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make 
market purchases (as defined in Section 693 of that Act) of ordinary shares of 5p each in its capital, provided that: 
 (i) the maximum aggregate number of such shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 38,828,745; 
 (ii) the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for such a share is 5p; 
 (iii) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for such a share is the maximum price permitted under  
 the Financial Conduct Authority’s listing rules or, in the case of a tender offer (as referred to in those rules), five per cent  
 above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share (as derived from the London Stock Exchange  
 Daily Official List) for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the terms of the tender offer are  
 announced; 
 (iv) this authority shall expire on 29 November 2015 or, if earlier, on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of  
 the company; and 
 (v) before such expiry the company may enter into such a contract to purchase shares which will or may require a   
 purchase to be completed after such expiry.
Notice of Meeting 96 97
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notice of Meeting
Special resolution – calling of general meetings on 14 clear days’ notice 
18 That any general meeting of the company that is not an Annual General Meeting may be called by not less than 14 clear days’ 
notice. 
Registered Office:      By order of the Board
776 Chester Road      G. MacGeekie
Stretford       Company Secretary
Manchester      5 March 2014
M32 0QH  98 99
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notice of Meeting
Notes: 
1 The right of a member of the company to vote at the Meeting will be determined by reference to the register of members.  A 
member must be registered on that register as the holder of ordinary shares by 6.00 pm on 27 May 2014 in order to be entitled 
to attend and vote at the Meeting as a member in respect of those shares. 
 
2 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote in his/her stead. A 
member may nominate a proxy of his/her choice who need not be a member of the company. 
3 A member may appoint more than one proxy to attend the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise rights 
in respect of different shares held by the member. 
4 Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending, speaking and voting at the Meeting should he/she wish 
to do so. 
5 In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 2006, the right to appoint proxies does not apply to persons nominated 
by a member of the company to receive information rights under Section 146 of that Act. Nominated persons who have been 
sent a copy of this notice of meeting may have a right under an agreement between him/her and that member to be appointed, 
or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the Meeting. If they have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they 
may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights. Nominated 
persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
 
6 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do 
so by using the procedures in the CREST manual. CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members and those 
CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service 
provider(s) who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf. 
 
 In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a 
“CREST Proxy Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications 
and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message, regardless 
of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointment 
proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID RA10) by the latest time for 
receipt of proxy appointments specified in this notice. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as 
determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host) from which the registrars are able to 
retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time, any change of instructions to 
proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means. CREST members and, 
where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider(s) should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does 
not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations will 
therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned 
to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service 
provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to 
ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, CREST 
members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections 
of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings. 
7 The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the 
Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001.
8 Capita Registrars maintain the company’s share register. They also provide a telephone helpline service on 0871 664 0300 
calls cost 10p a minute plus network extras.  Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. If you have any 
queries about voting or about your shareholding, please contact Capita Registrars. 98 99
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notice of Meeting
 
9 Members have the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting, which in accordance with 
Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, and subject to certain exceptions, the company must cause to be answered.
10 It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the company 
may be required to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter that such shareholders propose to raise at 
the Meeting relating to the audit of the company’s latest audited accounts.  The company may not require the shareholders 
requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 and 528 of the Companies Act 
2006.  Where the company is required to place a statement on its website under Section 527 of that Act, it must forward the 
statement to the company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website. The business 
which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the company has been required under 
Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website. 
11 Members have the right (i) to require the company to give notice of a resolution to be moved at the meeting in accordance 
with section 338 of the Companies Act 2006 and (ii) to require the company to include a matter in the business to be dealt 
with at the meeting in accordance with section 338A of that Act.
12 A Form of Proxy is enclosed for use by shareholders.
13 To be valid, a Form of Proxy must be lodged with the company’s Registrars, Capita Registrars’ Proxy Department, PXS, 34 
Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU not later than 10.00am on 27 May 2014. Please note that 26 May 2014 is a public 
holiday in the UK.
14 The company’s issued share capital on 6 March 2013 (the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this document) was 
388,287,450 ordinary shares of 5p each, such shares carrying one vote each, such that the total voting rights in the company 
on that date were 388,287,450.
15 Information relating to the Meeting which the company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website in 
advance of the Meeting may be viewed at www.lookersplc.co.uk.  A member may not use any electronic address provided 
by the company in this document or with any proxy appointment form or in any website for communicating with the company 
for any purpose in relation to the Meeting other than as expressly stated in it. 100 PB
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Shareholders, Bankers and 
Professional Advisors
Share Quotes
Share prices of the ordinary shares are shown in 
the Financial Times and also appear in several other 
newspapers.
Shareholder Benefits
We operate a scheme which provides all registered 
private shareholders holding a minimum of 5,000 
ordinary shares with an additional £100 discount off 
the price of any new motor vehicle purchased from 
any of the group’s dealerships. The private registered 
shareholder negotiates his/her purchase of the new 
vehicle in the normal way and the £100 is an additional 
discount obtained from the Company Secretary.
Electronic Communication
Capita Registrars provide a share portal service, which 
allows shareholders to access a variety of services 
online, including viewing shareholdings, buying and 
selling shares online, registering change of address 
details and bank mandates to have dividends paid 
directly into your bank account.
In addition, shareholders can register an email address 
and elect to receive future company reports and 
accounts in electronic form.
Any shareholder who wishes to register with Capita to 
take advantage of this service should visit 
www.capitaregistrars.com/shareholders
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
HSBC Bank plc
Lloyds Banking Group
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Yorkshire Bank
Registrars and Transfer Office
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Auditor
Deloitte LLP 
P .O. Box 500
2 Hardman Street
Manchester M60 2AT
Stockbrokers
Numis Securities Limited
The London Stock Exchange Building
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LT
Peel Hunt LLP
Moor House
120 London Wall
London EC2Y 5ET
Financial Advisors
NM Rothschild & Sons Limited
82 King Street
Manchester M2 4WQ Mercedes-Benz & 
smart of Gatwick MOTOR DIVISION
INDEPENDENT PARTS DIVISION
APEC Braking
BTN  T urbo
FPS Automotive Parts Distribution
OTHER
Charles Hurst  Tyres Distribution
Fleet Financial
Lookers Leasing
Platts Harris  (Agriculture)
Vehicle Rental Services
www.lookers.co.uk
Alfa Romeo 
Aston Martin 
Audi 
Bentley
BMW  (motorcycles)
Chrysler
Citroën 
Dacia
Ferrari
Fiat
Ford
Honda
Hyundai
Jaguar
Jeep 
Kia
Land Rover
Lexus
Maserati
Mercedes-Benz 
Nissan
Peugeot
Renault 
Seat
Skoda
Smart
Toyota
Vauxhall
Volkswagen
Volvo
Yamaha  (motorcycles)
