 15976 19/03/2009 Proof 5 15976 19/03/2009 Proof 5
LOW & BONAR PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
:: A Transformed Focus
ANNUAL REPORT 2008
LOW & BONAR PLC
 Low & Bonar PLC
9th Floor  Marble Arch Tower  
55 Bryanston Street  London  W1H 7AA
Tel 020 7535 3180  Fax 020 7535 3181
www.lowandbonar.com
15976LOWBONARCVR.indd   1 23/03/2009   08:15 15976 19/03/2009 Proof 5 15976 19/03/2009 Proof 5
A TRANSFORMED 
FOCUS 
Low & Bonar PLC is an international group 
manufacturing and supplying a wide range 
of products to the Performance Materials 
industry. Performance Materials is a global 
business, supplying yarns, fabrics and ﬁ bres 
to a broad range of end markets including 
civil engineering, building products, 
transport, sport and leisure, agriculture and 
other industrial applications 
 CONTENTS
BUSINESS OVERVIEW 01
HIGHLIGHTS 02
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 08
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S BUSINESS REVIEW 10
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW 16
DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS 20
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 22
MANAGEMENT OF RISK, HEALTH AND SAFETY 
AND THE ENVIRONMENT 25
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 28
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON REMUNERATION 33
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 41
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 42
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 44
BALANCE SHEETS 45
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 46
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT 47
STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE 48
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 49
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 55
FIVE YEAR HISTORY 91
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 92
15976LOWBONARCVR.indd   2 23/03/2009   08:15 01 LOW & BONAR ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
A GLOBAL 
PERFORMANCE
MATERIALS GROUP
LOW &
BONAR PLC
NICHE SPECIALIST 
MARKETS
INNOVATION 
CAPABILITY
HIGH VALUE-ADDED 
TO CUSTOMERS
Europe Worldwide
Sales
Manufacturing
END MARKET AND 
GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY
STRUCTURAL GROWTH 
DRIVERS 02 LOW & BONAR ANNUAL REPORT 2008
2008 HIGHLIGHTS
Revenue
1
—
Continuing operations (£m)
+59%
to £335.2m
(2007: £210.3m)
59.3
77.7
127.2
210.3
335.2
Profit before tax, 
amortisation and non-
recurring items
1
 — 
Continuing operations (£m)
+54%
to £16.0m
(2007: £10.4m)
1.1
3.3
4.0
10.4
16.0
  2004 2005 2006 2007 2008  2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Profit before tax
1,2
 — 
Continuing operations (£m)
-70%
to £2.2m
(2007: £7.4m)
1.1
2.5
(0.5)
7.4
2.2
  2004 2005 2007 2008
:: Group profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items up 54% to £16m (2007: £10.4m) on 
 revenues up 59% at £335.2m (2007: £210.3m); acquisitive and organic growth achieved.
::  Earnings per share before amortisation and non-recurring items increased by 59.5% to 7.37p 
 (2007: 4.62p).
:: A strong performance across the business, delivering growth in sales, profit and market share.
1
 Restated to exclude the Floors Division (discontinued in 2008) and the Plastics Division (discontinued in 2005).
2
 These figures reflect the non-recurring items arising in the year including the pension equalisation charge (note 5).
Dividends per share 
(pence)
-60%
to 1.925p
(2007: 4.85p)
3.99
4.17
4.38
4.85
1.925
  2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Earnings per share 
(before amortisation and 
non-recurring items)
1
 
— Continuing operations 
(pence)
+60%
to 7.37p
(2007: 4.62p)
4.62
7.37
2007 2008
Earnings per share
1,2
 — 
Continuing operations 
(pence)
-106%
to (0.20)p
(2007: 3.27p)
3.27
2007
   2008
(0.20)
  2006 03 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
GROWTH DRIVERS
:: Backing for carpet tiles growing share 
at the expense of broadloom in Europe 
and the US
:: Global new build and refurbishment 
coupled with infrastructure markets 
gives breadth and diversity
:: European freight haulage volumes, 
especially Germany and Eastern 
Europe
:: Demand for artificial sports pitches and 
landscapes — practice and legislation
:: Energy cost reduction and improving 
yields in European horticulture
Market Segmentation
Industrial 20%
Civil 
Engineering 
22%
Commercial Carpet 
Manufacturers 16%
Building 
Products
16%
Transport 14%
Sport & Leisure 12%
Geographical Segmentation
Other 8%
Europe 71%
UK 5% 
USA 16%
Signiﬁ cant historic growth 2004-08 — Continuing operations
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
35
30
25
20
15
10
  5
  0
Revenues £m
Operating proﬁ t before amortisation 
and non-recurring items £m
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004 04 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
TECHNICAL TEXTILES
OUR BUSINESS EXPLAINED
You may not always see our 
products, but they invariably add 
key performance characteristics 
to our customers’ products.
Raw Materials Yarn Production Fabric Production
Low and Bonar plays at several points 
along the industry value chain
PE/PP/PET Resin
Monofilament Yarns Needle-punched non-wovens
Tapes Spun-laid non-wovens
Fibrillated yarns Woven fabrics
Bi-component yarns Thermal bonded 3D 
profiles and Grids
Other materials: 
(PVC, PA6, PET, PP)
Additives for specific 
performance and colour 05 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
Our activities begin with the sourcing of widely 
available polymers including polypropylene, 
polyethylene, polyester, and nylon and combining 
these with specialty additives and colours which 
influence performance, aesthetics, and processing 
efficiencies. Using proprietary intellectual property 
these polymer mixes are extruded to form a variety 
of yarns which can be sold but more usually are 
transformed into fabrics using a broad range of 
technologies, which can then be coated or combined 
with other materials to form composite products. The 
products sold are typically components which are 
important determinants of the performance and/or 
efficiency of our customers’ final product or process.
Coating and Composites Customers
Growers and installers
Artificial grass producers
Carpet manufacturers
Truck tarpaulin manufacturers
PVC/PU coated woven PET fabrics
Construction companies
Outdoor screen printers
Composite formed from non-wovens and
3D profiles
Architects and builders
NICHE SPECIALIST 
MARKETS 06 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
TECHNICAL TEXTILES
OUR BUSINESS EXPLAINED
Civil Engineering
A wide range of products used in major 
infrastructure projects including road 
and rail building, land reclamation, and 
coastal defence.
Woven and non-woven geotextiles have 
a wide range of uses including separation 
and filtration, membrane protection in 
landfills and reservoirs, 
and for erosion control on riverbanks 
and coastlines.
Specialty geosynthetics for erosion 
control, drainage, soil reinforcement & 
stabilisation and soil consolidation.
Construction fibres used in concrete to 
reduce plastic shrinkage and settlement 
cracking and as an alternative to steel 
mesh reinforcement of concrete. 
Building Products
A range of products in niche application 
areas of the commercial building market.
Specialist architectural coated fabrics 
used as membranes for roofing, in frame 
supported industrial, event, and sports 
halls, and marquees for leisure and 
business events.
Roofing and flooring products based on 
both three-dimensional monofilament 
mats, composites, and non-wovens with 
a variety of applications including metal 
roof ventilation, subsurface drainage for 
green roofs, hard floor sound control, and 
reinforcement for waterproof bituminous 
roofing membranes. 
Commercial carpet 
manufacturers
A range of high-performance primary 
backings for tufted carpet tiles and 
broadloom carpet.
Key products in our core markets
HIGH VALUE — ADDED 
TO CUSTOMERS 07 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
Our innovations make the difference 
in a multitude of applications in a 
multitude of environments to clients 
worldwide.
Industrial
A wide range of products into multiple 
application areas including
Screens and groundcover products in 
the professional horticulture market to 
improve yield and reduce energy 
in the production of food, plants, and 
cut flowers.
Printable fabrics for large format prints 
used in large area outdoor and indoor 
advertising and smaller fabrics for point 
of sale displays.
Coated fabrics for storage and 
containment with application areas 
ranging from waste water, biogas, food, 
and oil.
Transport
Products used in both heavy and light 
vehicle manufacturing.
Primary and secondary non-woven 
backings for moulded car carpets and 
option mats, also used as reinforcement 
and carrier substrates in hood liners, 
trunk liners, door panels, package trays 
and car seats or as support media for 
cabin air filters. 
Tarpaulins which are highly resilient 
and weatherproof and used in transport 
applications including trailer side curtain 
manufacture and transport protection in 
air, road, rail, and sea freight. 
Sport and leisure
A diverse range of products for the sports 
and leisure sector.
Monofilament and fibrillated synthetic 
yarns used in the construction of artificial 
grass for sports and landscaping 
applications. 
Coated fabric product range used in 
a variety of application areas including 
sunshading, boat and pool, and camping 
and sports. 08 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The Group’s core business is the high value-
added manufacture and supply of performance 
materials, based primarily on technical textiles, 
for strategically attractive niche markets. It now 
operates from 13 factories in three continents 
and supplies fibres, yarns, woven and non-
woven fabrics for applications in markets 
including civil engineering, environmentally 
sustainable construction, leisure, architecture 
and general industrial applications. The 
success of our products is determined more by 
their performance characteristics than by their 
aesthetic properties. The Group is focused 
on becoming a global leader in current and 
other attractive niche markets for performance 
materials and aims to provide distinct and 
sustained added value to its customers’ 
businesses.
Strategic realignment in 2008
On 30th September 2008, we completed the 
sale of the Floors Division for £123.0m on a 
cash-free, debt-free basis (see page 10 for 
further details). The Board is grateful to the 
management and employees of the Division for 
their strong performance in recent years.
Following the disposal of its Floors Division 
in September 2008, the Group has focused 
its business on two areas of activity in the 
international technical textiles industry: 
first, the production and supply of technical 
coated fabrics for use in the transport, print 
and architectural markets; and, secondly, 
of performance technical textiles, including 
woven and non-woven fabrics and yarns 
serving, inter alia, the civil engineering, leisure 
and horticultural markets. 
This realignment is commented on further in 
the Group Chief Executive’s Business Review 
on pages 10 to 15.
Financial performance
As a result of the sale of the Floors Division 
we are giving 2007 comparative figures both 
restated for the disposal and as previously 
reported. These figures are set out in the 
table below.
Reasons for the Placing and Open Offer 
and use of proceeds
The Group has announced the terms of a 
Placing and Open Offer which is expected 
to generate net proceeds of c.£30m for the 
Company. The Board believes that the funds 
raised from the Placing and Open Offer will 
improve the financial position and future 
prospects of the Group significantly and, at 
the appropriate time, allow it to invest in its 
planned organic growth initiatives and to take 
advantage of opportunities emerging from the 
current market environment.
Following its good results for the year ended 
30th November 2008, but having given 
consideration to its strategy and current 
trading conditions, the Company has reviewed 
its financing arrangements and the structure 
of its balance sheet. Economic conditions are 
strained worldwide and highly uncertain and 
therefore, the Board believes that identified 
investment opportunities for organic earnings 
growth are being lost or delayed through the 
need to conserve cash. These opportunities 
include initiatives to reduce capacity 
constraints and costs and improve cash 
generation capabilities. Under more favourable 
economic conditions, and if finance were to be 
available, the Board would be likely to pursue 
such opportunities. Initiatives to grow sales 
include capacity expansion projects related 
to supplying growth markets such as civil 
engineering and artificial grass; geographic 
expansion; removing capacity constraints 
in weaving; research and development 
expenditure in woven textiles and yarns; 
and the need to fund the working capital 
consequences of such growth in due course. 
Cost reduction initiatives include process 
automation in Colbond and manufacturing 
The Group is focused on becoming a global 
leader in current and other attractive niche 
markets for performance materials and aims 
to provide distinct and sustained added 
value to its customers’ businesses.
Duncan Clegg
Chairman
Financial Highlights 2007 2007 2008
  Restated
 As  to exclude Excluding % Growth
 previously  Floors Floors (2008 v. 2007
£m reported Division Division restated)
Group revenue 311.8 210.3 335.2 59.4
Group operating profit before amortisation and non-recurring items  26.1 14.1 26.7 89.4
Group profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items 22.4 10.4 16.0 53.8 09 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
productivity enhancements in MTX. The 
Company typically targets cash payback from 
cost reduction projects of one to three years 
and three to four years for organic sales growth 
projects. The Company believes that these 
initiatives, if implemented, will support the 
upward trend in operating profit margins and 
enhance its strategic position.
Whilst economic conditions remain uncertain 
and trading muted, the Company intends to 
use the net proceeds of the Placing and Open 
Offer to reduce net borrowings until such 
time as it deems it prudent to implement its 
strategic and operational initiatives.
Capital Reorganisation
It is proposed that the Placing and Open Offer 
will be undertaken at 25 pence per Placing 
and Open Offer Share. The Placing and Open 
Offer is conditional on, amongst other things, 
the completion of a Capital Reorganisation, for 
which the approval of shareholders is being 
sought, which will result in the nominal value of 
each New Ordinary Share being reduced 
to 5 pence. 
Further details on the proposed Capital 
Reorganisation are given in note 32.
Dividend 
In light of the Placing and Open Offer, a final 
dividend will not be recommended for the 
year ended 30th November 2008. It is the 
Board’s intention, subject to the Group’s 
trading position and prevailing economic 
circumstances, to resume dividend payments 
for the year to 30th November 2009. It is the 
Board’s intention that the level of the dividend 
payment would be established at a sustainable 
level with the dividend per share to be 
covered at least twice by earnings per share 
(before amortisation and non-recurring items).
Employees
Once again I would like to thank our 
employees throughout the Group for their 
continued very positive responses and 
initiatives throughout the year. Their hard work 
and responsiveness underpins our strong 
positions across our markets.
Current trading and outlook
The Group has experienced material year-on-
year sales volume falls since 30th November 
2008, although significant cost actions already 
taken and benefits from falls in the prices of 
its key raw materials have helped to mitigate 
the impact on financial performance. These 
sales volume declines had been anticipated 
in part due to customer shutdowns and 
destocking, as well as the impact of the 
strained economic conditions. 
Given the inherent seasonality in the Group’s 
markets and the uncertainty surrounding 
global economic conditions, a clearer picture 
of underlying trading conditions and the 
outlook for the Group in 2009 is likely to take 
some time to emerge. In addition to cost 
actions taken so far, the Group has identified 
other opportunities to reduce costs should 
conditions require it. 
Our strategy of developing diverse product 
ranges for niche end markets and building 
leading market positions, allied to the 
underlying trend growth of the technical textile 
industry all give the Board confidence for the 
medium to long-term prospects of the Group.
Duncan Clegg
Chairman
19th February 2009
ADFIL Ignis micro ﬁ bres, with ﬁ re protection properties, 
used in cement products, particularly in underground 
construction.
Colback
®
 used as carrier for ﬁ ltration media such as cabin 
air or hydraulic ﬁ lters.
Hybrid ﬁ bre solution using Adﬁ l construction ﬁ bres at IKEA, 
Manchester. 10 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
BUSINESS REVIEW
Overview
2008 has been a very significant year for Low 
& Bonar, encompassing unprecedented levels 
of strategic refocusing, raw material volatility 
and changes to the economic background. I am 
pleased to report that the Group has entered 
what will be very testing times — but also times 
of great opportunity — in good financial and 
strategic shape. In the course of this highly 
active year, the financial performance was 
equally satisfying — Group profit before tax 
from continuing operations (before amortisation 
and non-recurring items) grew to £16.0m on 
Group revenues of £335.2m, an increase of 
54% over the 2007 figure restated to reflect the 
disposal of the Floors Division. Consequently , 
earnings per share from continuing operations 
before amortisation and non-recurring items 
increased 60% to 7.37p (2007: 4.62p). This 
growth was underpinned not only by the 
maiden contribution of MTX, acquired in 
January 2008, but also by a healthy growth 
in Divisional operating margins from 8.5% to 
9.6%. Given that the majority of our profits are 
earned in euros, there was also a benefit from 
translating results from euros to sterling.
Key Themes of 2008
Strategic refocusing 
Commencing with the completion of the 
acquisition of MTX in January 2008, there have 
been four events this year completing the 
move to a more strategically focused Group 
based on the technical textiles industry. MTX, 
a leading producer of technical coated fabrics 
based in Germany and the Czech Republic, 
was acquired on 3rd January 2008 for 
€163.0m. It produces PVC-coated materials for 
the transport, architectural, print and general 
industrial sectors and operates in a segment 
that offers distinct scaling opportunities.
On 8th January 2008, we announced the 
acquisition of Westbond Ltd, a producer 
of fusion-bonded carpet tiles, for a total 
consideration of £10.9m. During our period of 
ownership, it performed in line with internal 
expectations and, as envisaged, proved highly 
complementary to our existing Tessera carpet 
tile business. Westbond was successfully 
integrated into our Floors Division within six 
months of the acquisition.
In April 2008, the Group established 
Bonar Emirates Technical Yarns Industries 
LLC (BETY), a joint venture company, to 
manufacture artificial grass yarns and carpet 
backing yarns based in Abu Dhabi. Through 
this initiative, the Group will be able to expand 
its existing European capacity in artificial grass 
yarn production to meet the expected high 
growth in demand for this product, and will 
have ready access to new markets in the Gulf 
and Middle East region. It will also provide 
access to lower input costs such as raw 
materials, energy and labour. We have treated 
BETY as a subsidiary in the Group accounts as 
we hold economic control. 
In September 2008, the Company completed 
the sale of the Group’s Floors Division 
(including Westbond) at a value of £123.0m on 
a cash-free, debt-free basis. This was a very 
significant change to the Group’s profile: Bonar 
Floors had been a valuable and important part 
of Low & Bonar for over 30 years. In the last 
few years the business had grown substantially, 
both organically and through acquisition, built 
a strong management team and developed 
a clear strategy, whilst generating very 
good margins. Nonetheless, the Board was 
supportive of the disposal because it believed 
that not only did the offer represent good 
value for the Company and shareholders, but 
Paul Forman
Group Chief Executive
Architecture textile manufactured from VALMEX
®
 
structure membrane.
Waterproof bituminous rooﬁ ng membrane on Colback
®
 
reinforcement.
Megawatti yacht built with Enka
®
-Fusion ﬂ ow medium.
The Board is confident that the disposal 
of Bonar Floors will help Low & Bonar to 
meet its long-term strategic objective of 
creating a leading global performance 
materials business. 11 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
oil price and demand for individual polymers 
fell. We see no reason to assume that in the 
medium term this volatility will lessen, but are 
confident we can continue to maintain healthy 
margins as a consequence of the added value 
we provide to our customers and our leading 
market positions.
Changes to the economic background
We consider one of the strategic strengths of 
the Group to be its diversity of geographies 
served and the variety of end-markets, 
ranging from civil engineering to leisure to 
horticulture. We have been able to build 
on our strong positions in niche markets by 
acquiring businesses that take us into new 
or complementary sectors that are set for 
growth, driven by factors such as legislation 
and environmental concerns. This means 
that we have seen volume growth in the 
technical textiles industry generally, and in our 
businesses in particular, above that of GDP. 
Nonetheless, changes to the overall economic 
environment do have a significant impact 
on short-term customer demand levels and 
we witnessed a clear weakening in overall 
demand from September onwards. However, 
we believe that, for the reasons outlined above, 
some of this impact can be mitigated and that 
indeed additional opportunities to gain market 
share will present themselves. We also believe 
that the trend growth rate in the industry of 
one to two times GDP should reassert itself 
over time.
also that it freed up management resource 
and cash to invest in developing the Group 
further as a leading technical textiles business. 
The disposal also reduced significantly the 
Group’s debt levels. The Board is confident that 
the disposal of Bonar Floors will help Low & 
Bonar to meet its long-term strategic objective 
of creating a leading global performance 
materials business. The strategy will be 
discussed in more detail later in this section.
Raw material volatility
2008 was particularly noteworthy for the 
unprecedented volatility in our key raw 
materials, oil-based polymers including 
polyethylene, polypropylene, PVC, nylon 
and polyester. This is important because the 
spend on raw materials is approximately half 
our total sales value, with oil-based polymers 
representing by far the largest item of raw 
material expenditure. Three factors are widely 
regarded as critical to influencing the cost of 
those raw materials: the supply level for each 
polymer; global demand for each; and the 
price of crude oil. All these factors have varied 
very significantly throughout the year, with new 
supply coming on stream from the Gulf region, 
demand growing and then weakening in line 
with global industrial health and the well-
documented movements in the oil price. Whilst 
we believe that the quality of our products 
and services, the strength of our customer 
relationships and our strong market positions 
all help to manage the margin implications of 
such volatility, there is necessarily at least some 
impact in the short term. We have been able 
to compensate well through actions on other 
cost areas and grow operating margins in 
2008 despite an overall negative impact from 
raw materials. The latter part of the year did 
indeed see some weakening from the historic 
high levels of August and September as the 
We consider one of the strategic 
strengths of the Group to be its diversity 
of geographies served and the variety 
of end-markets, ranging from civil 
engineering to leisure to horticulture.
Innovation 
capability
Colback ‘F2F’ — 
helping to make 
our customers more 
cost effective
Case Study
A focus on improving our 
innovation capability is 
important to ensure that we can 
offer our customers products 
and services which enhance 
their product offering and 
processes. This is vital in our 
commitment to helping make 
them more successful as 
businesses. Achieving a world 
class innovation capability is a 
continuing project but progress 
is encouraging with a number 
of recent examples highlighted 
throughout this annual report:
A unique innovation in the primary backing 
market for carpet tiles with a product 
which is light grey on one side and black 
on the other side which enables it to be a 
carrier for both light and dark coloured 
carpets which offers customers significant 
efficiency improvements and cost savings 
in their tufting operations.
Image courtesy of InterfaceFLOR   12 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
Financial performance summary
Overall Group revenue from continuing 
operations increased by 59% to £335.2m 
(2007 (restated): £210.3m), of which £105.3m 
was the effect of the MTX acquisition. The ten 
month revenue from Bonar Floors was £96.0m, 
including Westbond, compared with a full 
12-month figure of £101.5m in 2007.
Revenue from continuing operations was 
broadly flat when adjusting for foreign 
exchange benefits as positive growth in the 
first half of the year was offset by the decline in 
the later part of the year and by the expected 
cessation of a non-strategic toll manufacturing 
contract previously held by Colbond. 
Decisions were taken at times throughout 
the year to turn away specific revenue 
opportunities if management believed the debt 
risk outweighed the reward.
Excellent work on lowering unit production 
costs, allied to good management of product 
mix and control of overhead spend, meant that 
operating profit from continuing operations 
before amortisation and non-recurring items 
grew by 89% to £26.7m (2007 (restated): 
£14.1m). MTX, which has met the stretching 
internal financial expectations established at 
the time of acquisition, contributed £12.3m 
operating profit (before amortisation and 
non-recurring items) in its 11 months as part of 
the Group, and local operating profit from the 
remaining activities grew by a very heartening 
£1.9m, or 13%, despite the major escalation of 
raw material costs. It is encouraging to report 
that Divisional operating margins consequently 
increased from 8.5% to 9.6%.
Group profit before tax from continuing 
operations (before amortisation and non-
recurring items) grew by 54% to £16.0m 
(2007 (restated): £10.4m). Net financing costs 
increased from £3.7m to £10.7m as a result 
of higher debt levels and increased bank 
margins. Operating non-recurring items were 
a net £1.4m charge, comprising a £2.3m 
charge in respect of the restructuring of MTX 
post-acquisition and a £0.9m profit on the 
disposal of surplus land. A non-operating 
non-recurring charge of £6.2m was incurred 
in respect of a potential funding deficit 
arising from the implementation of pensions 
equalisation (see note 5). Our pre-amortisation 
and non-recurring items tax rate remained 
unchanged at 29%. Earnings per share from 
continuing operations before amortisation and 
non-recurring items increased by 60% to 7.37p 
(2007 (restated): 4.62p).
Our year end net debt position of £104.5m 
(2007: £50.5m) is a reflection of the acquisition 
and disposal activities, the translation impact 
of debt primarily denominated in euros, and 
good operational cash flow benefiting from 
strong management of working capital. 
The net debt/EBITDA ratio (for bank covenant 
purposes) for the year was 2.6 times versus a 
covenant of no more than 3.25 times and the 
interest cover covenant was 3.7 times versus a 
covenant of no less than 3.0 times.
Health and safety
The Board’s rigorous commitment to health 
and safety matters remains undiminished. All 
statistics and incidents are subject to close 
scrutiny by myself and the senior management 
team. I am pleased to report that this continued 
emphasis, underpinned by training and 
selective capital investment, has meant that 
yet again the accident statistics have shown 
considerable year-on-year improvement. 
We believe that our level of accidents is half 
that experienced by our benchmark industry 
sectors across Europe and are intent on 
improving that ratio further still. MTX has 
been fully integrated into our Health & Safety 
processes and we are confident that it too will 
show the same improving trend in 2009.
Maintaining our environmental 
responsibilities
Our twin emphasis on acting responsibly in our 
manufacturing processes and on new product 
developments continues, but at an increased 
rate. Operationally, we have successfully 
developed capabilities to reuse post-
industrial polymer waste and are utilising this 
capacity wherever possible. Waste reduction 
programmes in all sites have the dual benefit 
of reducing our production unit costs and also 
improving our environmental footprint. Equally, 
we are actively engaged in programmes 
targeting reductions in usage rates across 
packaging, electricity and other utilities. Our 
products themselves are increasingly focused 
on aspects of environmental responsibility, 
such as the benefits of reducing water 
consumption and lower chemical usage from 
artificial grass. We have launched, amongst 
others, “green” roof products, 100% recycled 
carpet backings and a product for motorway 
central reservations that consumes exhaust 
emissions. Work continues on innovations in 
areas like biodegradable options for specific 
end-markets.
Employees
As has been discussed, 2008 witnessed an 
increased level of change across the Group 
compared to the already very high levels of 
the last few years. Our global dimension is 
exemplified by the fact that our 14 factories 
(including the Middle East site under 
construction) are located in nine countries 
across three continents and this provides great 
opportunities for the beneficial sharing of ideas 
and approaches. I have been encouraged by 
the positive way our colleagues have embraced 
the transformation that has occurred within Low 
& Bonar over the last 12 months and responded 
to the more demanding trading environment. 
Regrettable but necessary decisions have been 
required to ensure our cost base is adjusted 
appropriately and the commitment of all those 
working for Low & Bonar to building the Group 
has remained excellent.
Our twin emphasis on 
acting responsibly in our 
manufacturing processes 
and on new product 
developments continues, 
but at an increased rate. 13 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
Lixhe port area (Belgium) — using more than 20,000m
2
of Bontec.
Specialist architectural coated fabric used at Aintree 
Racecourse.
Tarpaulin used on a wagon train.
Strategy, key strengths and 2008 
performance review
The principal activities are in the international 
manufacturing and supply of performance 
materials known as technical textiles. The 
global technical textile industry comprises, 
inter alia, fibres, yarns and woven fabrics 
serving diverse markets for a wide range of 
niche industrial applications.
Strategy and key strengths
Strategy
The Group’s objective is to become a global 
leader in the manufacture and supply of 
performance materials, based primarily on 
technical textiles, for strategically attractive 
niche markets. The Group is focused on 
becoming a global performance materials 
business, based primarily, but not exclusively, 
on technical textiles, which aims to provide 
distinct and sustained added value to its 
customers’ businesses. The Company believes 
that pursuing this strategy, backed by a 
stable management team, will result in higher 
returns and above-market growth rates. It is 
the Company’s belief that a material increase 
in scale through the adoption of this strategy 
will give benefits in purchasing capability, 
utilisation of commercial infrastructure, 
scope to invest in state-of-the-art production 
equipment and shared knowledge and depth 
of pocket in research and development.
The Group’s strategy is to develop a portfolio 
of leading global positions in carefully chosen 
niche markets and to realise purchasing, 
production and cross-selling synergies as 
appropriate. Cost and quality leadership is 
sought through constant process redesign 
and improvement. The Company believes 
that organic expansion will be achieved 
through further product innovation in all areas, 
geographic expansion and operational process 
improvement. This strategy for organic growth 
may be complemented by acquisitions in 
segments that are consistent with this strategy 
or which provide geographic expansion of the 
Group’s core activities.
Key Strengths
The Directors believe that the Group has 
a number of key strengths that assist in 
underpinning its financial performance. These 
strengths include
i) Leading market positions in the markets in 
which it operates
 The acquisition strategy of the last five 
years has focused on building leading 
market positions in the niche markets in 
which the Group operates by either: (a) 
building on existing market positions, as 
was the case in the acquisitions of Xirion, 
a producer and supplier of artificial grass 
yarns, and Geo-Tipptex, a manufacturer 
of non-woven geotextiles; or (b) acquiring 
businesses that have leading market 
positions in new markets, as was the case 
with the acquisitions of the non-woven 
business of Colbond and the technical 
coated fabrics business of MTX. The 
Directors believe that this acquisition 
strategy enables the Group to maintain 
strong operating margins.
ii) Customer diversity reducing over-reliance 
on one specific country or end market
 The Directors believe that the Group 
benefits from having limited exposure 
to any specific geographic market and 
through serving a wide range of end-
markets. In 2008, the Group’s sales by 
destination amounted to approximately 
5.5% to the United Kingdom, 70.5% 
to continental Europe, 15.7% to North 
America and 8.3% to the rest of the 
World, primarily Asia. The end-markets 
are themselves diverse, with products 
finding their way into, inter alia, markets 
such as the civil engineering, carpet tile 
manufacture, horticulture, artificial sports 
pitches, building construction and large-
scale outdoor advertising media sectors.
The Company believes 
that organic expansion 
will be achieved through 
further product innovation 
in all areas, geographic 
expansion and operational 
process improvement. 14 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
iii) A growing investment in new product 
development
 The Group places great significance on 
innovation as a means of developing new 
products to satisfy customer demands. 
Colbond, for example, has research and 
development facilities in the Netherlands 
and in the United States comprising 5% of 
its employees and has recently added to its 
capabilities to support the Yarns business. 
Sales from products introduced within the 
last 12 months have increased to almost 
20% of the total. Specific examples of 
recent innovation include “F2F”, a unique 
double-sided backing product for carpet 
tiles that enables customers to reduce 
inventory and set-up times, and technical 
coated fabrics specifically designed for the 
storage of biogas. Our Fabrics business 
has launched a new range of products to 
support its horticultural customers and 
a new “Cool Grass” product has been 
developed by the Yarns business which 
lowers the surface temperature of a sports 
pitch by up to 15 ºC.
iv) The Group has a clearly demonstrated 
ability to execute and add value to 
acquisitions
 The Group has completed seven 
acquisitions and joint ventures in technical 
textiles in the last five years, across 
Europe, North America, the Middle East 
and China. These investments have 
ranged in size from £3.0m to €163.0m 
and have built on existing businesses or 
added new businesses to the Group. The 
Directors believe that these acquisitions 
have created value, both financially and 
strategically, within the Group. MTX 
has, for example, generated €26.7m 
of operating cash flow in the period to 
30th November 2008, and Geo-Tipptex 
achieved record sales in the last quarter of 
2008. 
v) The Group has a strong management team 
which has delivered significant financial 
improvement
 In the year ended 30th November 2002, 
before the current management team 
joined the Group, the relevant part of 
Low & Bonar, Yarns & Fabrics, generated 
divisional operating profit of approximately 
£2.6m on sales of £44.3m, representing an 
operating margin before central costs of 
5.9%, based on figures derived using 
UK GAAP. In the year ended 
30th November 2008, the sales of the 
Technical Textiles Division were £335.2m, 
divisional operating profit before 
amortisation and non-recurring items 
was £32.1m and the operating margin 
before central costs was 9.6%, based on 
figures derived using IFRS. This growth 
in margins was achieved at a time when 
average raw material costs have doubled 
approximately.
vi) Many of the markets served have positive 
long-term trend growth
 A number of structural factors determine 
the underlying growth of the markets 
served by the Group, other than those 
purely associated with macroeconomic 
trends: the level of global investment 
in infrastructure; the rate of change in 
commercial use from broadloom carpets to 
carpet tiles; the installation of artificial grass 
sports pitches; the use of artificial grass for 
landscaping applications; the use of coated 
fabrics for permanent and semi-permanent 
structures; and the importance of yield 
improvement and energy reduction in 
horticulture. The overall technical textiles 
industry is believed to have been growing 
in volume above underlying GDP over 
the last five years due to substitution and 
new market development factors. Whilst 
overall economic activity is one factor 
in determining the growth rates of the 
Group’s various markets, there are many 
other determinants, including those stated 
above, which taken together the Directors 
believe should sustain strong growth rates 
in core markets over the long term. 
2008 Performance review
Highlights
:: Successful acquisition of MTX
:: Cost control and operational productivity 
compensate for lower H2 sales
:: Rate of product innovation increased
:: Volatile raw material environment 
successfully mitigated
:: Operating margin increased to almost 10%
Despite a slower final quarter, 2008 proved a 
satisfying year financially and operationally. 
The biggest event was the acquisition of MTX, 
our technical coated fabrics business, and its 
subsequent integration and I am pleased to 
report that results to date are marginally higher 
than the stretching internal expectations that 
were set at the time of acquisition.
Case Study
The development of green roofs is a 
growing architectural trend in both US and 
Europe increasingly driven by supporting 
legislation. A unique new product which 
provides a growth medium, a drainage and 
filtration component, and a root barrier on 
top of traditional roofing substrates, which 
together satisfy the growing demand for 
ecological building construction.
EnkaRetain 
and Drain — a 
rooﬁ ng solution 
for a developing 
environmental trend
Case Study 15 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
Technical Coated Fabrics
MTX operates from two factories in Germany 
and one in the Czech Republic and a network 
of overseas sales offices. The main products 
are truck side tarpaulins, larger fabrics for 
outdoor advertising applications, permanent 
and semi-permanent structures, and various 
other specialist applications including the 
marine, pool and outdoor leisure sectors. 
Market demand is influenced by underlying 
economic drivers such as the number and 
replacement pattern of commercial vehicles 
in Europe, outdoor media expenditure, 
architectural trends and product substitution. 
The market is estimated to be worth 
approximately £2bn globally and hence offers 
significant scope for our further growth.
At the time of the MTX acquisition, a detailed 
set of plans was developed to ensure sales, 
profit margins and cash flow were optimised. 
This initiative has progressed well to date 
despite the trailer market being adversely 
impacted by the economic environment in 
the latter half of the year. The business has 
significantly reduced its working capital, 
sustained good operating margins and 
implemented many of the Group processes 
relating to financial and operational control. 
Looking ahead, opportunities exist to optimise 
manufacturing productivity and working capital 
efficiency still further as well as to expand its 
geographic presence and to increase the rate 
of innovation and hence sales growth. The 
diverse geographic nature of its sales network 
is proving an asset to our other businesses, as 
well as its expertise in coating technology.
Performance Technical Textiles
(i) Technical Fabrics
The Technical Fabrics business produces and 
supplies woven and non-woven geotextiles, 
agrotextiles and other industrial textiles; 
it also supplies specialist fibres added to 
concrete, primarily in the civil engineering 
industry. It manufactures from factories in 
Belgium, Hungary and China. The European 
business continued its track record of growth 
in sales and profit, delivering record margins. 
A particular highlight of the year was the 
very good performance of Geo-Tipptex, 
the Hungarian manufacturer of non-woven 
geotextiles used in civil engineering that 
was acquired in 2006. This business has 
benefited from the increase and upgrading 
of its production capacity in 2007, enabling 
it to improve margins and product quality. 
Elsewhere, the businesses serving the civil 
engineering market and horticulture markets 
for groundcovers fared well and retain leading 
positions across Europe. Encouragingly for the 
future, the focus of the management team on 
enhancing its new product pipeline is starting 
to bear fruit with the proportion of sales from 
new products gaining steadily throughout the 
year, such as specialist applications like cherry 
cloth, Phormidrain and mushroom mats. It is 
also making good headway in less developed, 
higher growth geographic markets — most 
notably the Gulf region. Our Chinese joint 
venture experienced unprecedentedly high 
levels of raw material cost escalation as well as 
market softening from their Chinese customers 
supplying product into Europe and North 
America. Nonetheless, the long-term potential 
remains undoubted and we are using expertise 
from across the Group to bring standards of 
production and financial performance to a 
consistently high level.
(ii) Bi-component non-wovens and three-
dimensional mats
Colbond sells non-woven speciality fabrics as 
backing for carpet tiles, higher end automotive 
applications and for roofing membranes. It 
also produces three-dimensional mats used 
as flow media and separation media in civil 
engineering and composites amongst others. 
The business performed well to maintain its 
profit despite being the one business with 
some exposure both to the automotive and 
residential housing market, which proved 
difficult throughout 2008. 
Excellent levels of product innovation enabled 
sales to grow elsewhere, with sales into the 
civil engineering, general industrial and US 
carpet tile sectors all performing notably 
well. As importantly, the production teams 
on both sides of the Atlantic made great 
strides in productivity improvements and 
achieved reductions of over 10% for certain 
core products. Additionally, the completion 
of a new warehouse in July 2008 has started 
to improve service and reduce cost. Like 
Fabrics, it saw significant growth in sales from 
products recently introduced and looks set 
to maintain this trend. Entry into new end-
markets is also being strenuously targeted 
and is likely to produce tangible benefits in 
2009. Sales initiatives into growth markets 
like “green” buildings and composites have 
been prioritised further given their greater 
underlying resilience in the current economic 
environment and their long-term growth 
potential. In the broader context, Colbond’s 
R&D capability remains a core strength that 
much of the business calls upon to good effect 
and it leads the way in many aspects of health, 
safety and environmental practice. Its safety 
record is pre-eminent within the Group and is 
clear best practice.
(iii) Technical Yarns
Bonar Technical Yarns manufactures and 
supplies a range of high-specification synthetic 
yarns for use in the production of synthetic 
sport and landscaping surfaces as well as in 
woven Axminster and Wilton carpets. The 
key development in this business in 2008 was 
the establishment of a joint venture in Abu 
Dhabi. The production facility is expected 
to commence production of grass yarn in 
the second half of 2009 and will add to the 
existing European production capacity in 
Scotland and Belgium. As well as bringing 
access to lower production costs it is situated 
close to one of the expected growth markets 
for both sports and landscape applications. 
2008 saw Yarns face the highest raw material 
price increases across the Group and a lot of 
good work on raw material and direct labour 
efficiency ensured that this negative effect was 
broadly mitigated. Underlying sales volume 
growth was achieved and new customers 
were obtained globally but further progress 
needs to be made for the business to achieve 
its profit potential. Encouragingly, significant 
growth in new product development output has 
been achieved and the business is in better 
underlying shape than it has been for a long 
time, due to a lot of hard work across all facets 
of the business.
Paul Forman
Group Chief Executive
19th February 2009 16 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR’S
REVIEW
Financial summary
Figures within the income statement have been 
impacted significantly this year by the disposal 
of the Floors Division on 30th September and 
the acquisition of MTX in January 2008. The 
key highlights of the year are
  2007
 2008 Restated
Revenue  
— continuing operations £335.2m £210.3m
Profit before amortisation 
and non-recurring items 
—continuing operations £16.0m £10.4m
Profit for the year from 
discontinued operations £60.8m £8.1m
Net debt  £104.5m £50.5m
Basic (loss)/earnings 
per share (p per share) 
— continuing operations (0.20)p 3.27p
Earnings per share before 
amortisation and non-
recurring items (p per share) 
— continuing operations 7.37p 4.62p
Post-balance sheet events
The Directors announced on 
19th February 2009 that the Company 
proposes to raise approximately £30m 
(net of expenses) by way of a Placing and 
Open Offer of 132,489,559 Open Offer Shares at 
25 pence per Ordinary Share.
The Placing and Open Offer has been fully 
underwritten by the Placing Agents. The 
Open Offer Shares to be issued pursuant to 
the Placing and Open Offer, when fully paid, 
will rank pari passu with the Ordinary Shares 
or, after the Capital Reorganisation, the New 
Ordinary Shares.
Before proceeding with the Placing and 
Open Offer, the Company’s Ordinary Share 
capital will be reorganised by means of the 
Capital Reorganisation which will involve: (i) 
the subdivision and reclassification of each 
issued Ordinary Share into one New Ordinary 
Share of 5 pence and one Deferred Share 
of 20 pence; and (ii) the subdivision of each 
authorised but unissued Ordinary Share into 
five New Ordinary Shares of 5 pence each. 
On completion of the Capital Reorganisation, 
each Ordinary Shareholder will hold one New 
Ordinary Share and one Deferred Share for 
each Ordinary Share currently held.
Accounting standards
There have been no significant changes to 
the accounting standards which impact the 
business this year.
Taxation
The taxation charge was £4.7m on profit before 
amortisation and non-recurring items and tax 
from continuing operations (2007 (restated): 
£3.0m). The effective tax rate on profit before 
amortisation and non-recurring items was 
29.4%, up from 28.8% in the prior year. 
Earnings
The basic measure showed a loss per share of 
(0.20)p compared with earnings of 3.27p for 
2007 reflecting the non-recurring items arising 
in the year.
On the earnings per share measure calculated 
using profit before amortisation and non-
recurring items for continuing operations, EPS 
has increased by 59.5% to 7.37p from 4.62p. 
Windmill rotor blades manufactured with Enka
®
-Fusion 
ﬂ ow medium.
Synthetic grass yarn production, Bonar Yarns, Scotland.
Synthetic turf for soccer.
Kevin Higginson
Group Finance Director 17 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
Pensions
The pension deficits have increased during 
the year, principally as a result of the schemes 
acquired as part of the MTX acquisition and 
actuarial losses arising as a result of investment 
performance. There was additionally a cash 
injection of some £3.0m (2007: £3.0m) from 
the Company to the UK Scheme. In addition, 
a section 75 liability arose on the disposal of 
the Floors Division resulting in an additional 
£8.0m payment to the new owners of the Floors 
Division for funding into the UK Scheme.
The Company has recognised a non-operating 
non-recurring charge of £6.2m resulting in 
a provision of £6.0m for certain liabilities in 
connection with the UK Scheme and certain 
associated professional costs in connection 
with the matters referred to in note 5.
Operating non-recurring items
There was a net non-recurring charge from 
continuing operations of £1.4m (2007: £nil). 
Following the acquisition of MTX in 
January 2008, we have incurred a number 
of post-acquisition integration costs. In addition, 
a restructuring programme has commenced 
resulting in a number of additional costs. 
This has resulted in a charge of some £2.3m. 
During the year, we disposed of surplus land 
at Colbond Inc, generating a profit on disposal 
of £0.9m. 
Cash flow and net debt
Net debt at the end of the year was £104.5m 
compared with £50.5m last year, reflecting 
additional debt arising on acquisitions, 
primarily of MTX, offset by the inflow from the 
disposal of the Floors Division, the translation 
impact of debt primarily denominated in euros 
and good operating cash flow benefiting from 
strong management of working capital. 
Acquisitions and disposals
We completed the acquisition of MTX for 
€163.0m in January 2008. MTX Group produces 
technical coated fabrics and is principally 
based in Germany . Additionally , on 8th January 
2008, we acquired Westbond Ltd, a producer 
of fusion-bonded high quality carpet tiles for a 
consideration of some £10.9m. Westbond was 
subsequently disposed of on 30th September 
2008 as part of the disposal of the Floors 
Division.
During the year, we established Bonar 
Emirates Technical Yarns Industries LLC 
(“BETY”) together with Abu Dhabi Basic 
Industries Corporation PJSC to manufacture 
artificial grass yarns and carpet backing yarns, 
based in Abu Dhabi. We have treated BETY 
as a subsidiary in the Group accounts as we 
hold economic control. We anticipate that 
production will commence in the second half 
of 2009.
On 30th September 2008, we disposed of our 
Floors Division generating a profit on disposal 
of £55.9m. Profit before amortisation and 
non-recurring items in the ten month period to 
disposal was £10.4m (year to 30th November 
2007: £12.0m). Net profit attributable to 
discontinued operations was £60.8m (2007: 
£8.1m). The 2007 results have been restated to 
show the results from the Floors Division as a 
discontinued operation.
Dividend policy
In light of the Placing and Open Offer, a final 
dividend will not be recommended for the 
year ended 30th November 2008. It is the 
Board’s intention, subject to the Group’s 
trading position and prevailing economic 
circumstances, to resume dividend payments 
for the year to 30th November 2009. It is the 
Board’s intention that the level of the dividend 
payment would be established at a sustainable 
level with the dividend per share to be 
covered at least twice by earnings per share 
(before amortisation and non-recurring items). 
The interim dividend of 1.925p per share 
(2007: 1.75p) already paid will, therefore, 
constitute the total dividend on the ordinary 
shares for the year (2007: 4.85p) for the year. 
Preference dividends of £23.0k (2007: £23.0k) 
were paid in the year. 
Share capital
The total share capital was 154.6m ordinary 
shares in issue as at 30th November 2008 (2007: 
153.9m). The average number of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year was 154.0m.
Share price
The share price achieved a high of 124.25p 
and a low of 22.0p during the year, with the 
share price as at 30th November 2008 being 
40.5p (2007: 114.25p). The primary objective 
of the Board remains the enhancement of 
shareholder value through profitable, cash-
generative growth. The market capitalisation 
as at 30th November 2008 was £62.6m (2007: 
£175.9m). 
Case Study
Cool grass — 
satisfying an unmet 
need in the artiﬁ cial 
grass market
A unique patented new offer which 
improves player comfort in hot climates 
by reducing the surface temperature of 
a sports pitch by up to 15°C. 18 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR’S
REVIEW CONTINUED
Bank facilities
The Group started the year with bank facilities 
of approximately £234.7m. During the year, 
bank consent was required for the disposal 
of the Floors Division. Consent was obtained 
unanimously , and included conditions whereby 
part of the then-available facilities were 
cancelled, and the rate of interest payable 
increased to 1.50% above the London inter-
bank offered rate. At 30th November 2008, the 
Group held two committed bank facilities, of 
£149.4m and €81.0m, making total facilities of 
approximately £216.4m. Subsequent to year 
end, facilities totalling €81.0m were cancelled 
voluntarily . 
The final maturity of these unsecured facilities is 
December 2011. Further details of the facilities 
can be found in note 19 to the accounts.
Treasury
The objective of the Treasury operation is the 
management of financial risk at optimal cost. 
The department manages the relationships 
with the Group’s key external debt providers 
centrally. Acting as a cost centre, it operates 
within a range of Board-approved policies, 
using conventional financial instruments and 
specified derivatives. There have been no 
changes to the treasury policies and controls 
during the year, although subsequent to year 
end as part of a review of policies, the Board 
revised its foreign exchange policy (see 
below). No transactions of a speculative nature 
are permitted. The treasury department is 
subject to periodic independent review by the 
internal audit department. In addition, during 
the year, the department was also subject to 
review by external consultants. Underlying 
policy assumptions and activities are reviewed 
by the Board. Controls over exposure changes 
and transaction authenticity are in place. 
Funding and liquidity risk
The Group’s funding objective is to maintain 
the constant availability of an appropriate 
amount of reasonably priced funding for the 
Group’s operational and strategic needs for 
the foreseeable future, and accordingly to 
safeguard its ability to continue as a going 
concern. The Group finances its operations 
from shareholders’ funds and borrowing 
facilities. Group policy is to maintain committed 
facilities to a minimum of 110% of peak gross 
debt requirements.
Whilst the Group maintains uncommitted facilities 
to maintain short-term flexibility , its principal debt 
funding comprises committed bank facilities 
which are detailed above. During the year, the 
facilities, which are multi-currency , have been 
drawn in both euros and pounds sterling.
From time to time, the Group purchases its own 
shares on the market through our employee 
benefit trust; the timing of these purchases 
depends on market prices. The shares are 
intended to be used for issuing shares under 
the Group’s share option programmes.
The Group’s objectives when managing 
capital are
:: to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, so that it can continue 
to provide returns for shareholders and 
benefits for other stakeholders; and
:: to provide an adequate return to 
shareholders commensurate with the level 
of risk.
The Group sets the amount of capital in 
proportion to risk. The Group manages its 
capital structure and makes changes in the 
light of changes in economic conditions and 
risk characteristics of the underlying assets. 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, the Group may adjust the amount of 
dividends paid to shareholders, return capital 
to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets 
to reduce debt. There were no changes in 
the Group’s approach to capital management 
during the year. Neither the Company nor any 
of its subsidiaries are subject to externally 
imposed capital requirements. 
Utilisation of proprietory knowledge from 
both our Colbond and Fabrics businesses 
to develop a new drainage product to 
replace expensive lava stones which are 
currently used as a drainage medium in 
professional horticulture.
Phormidrain — 
taking advantage of 
our Group expertise 
to create unique 
alternatives for 
customers
Case Study 19 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
Interest rate risk
The Group’s strategy is to ensure with a 
reasonable amount of certainty that the overall 
Group interest charge is protected against 
material adverse movements in interest rates. 
The acquisitions over the last two years have 
introduced a significant level of debt into the 
Group. The higher gearing is expected to 
remain, notwithstanding the disposal of the 
Floors Division and the Placing and Open Offer 
just announced. 
The Board’s policy for the management of 
interest rate risk is to ensure that a proportion 
of core debt be subject to protection against 
higher interest rates. The proportion is subject 
to review at the time of the annual budget 
setting and the Group has purchased interest 
rate caps to mitigate the impact of potential 
increases in interest rates.
Subsequent to the year end, the Company 
entered into a series of cross-currency 
swaps with two of its relationship banking 
counterparties which mature in November 
2011, broadly coterminous with the expiry of 
the Group’s banking facilities.
Foreign exchange risk
The Group has net assets outside of the 
UK, predominantly within the euro zone. 
To mitigate the fluctuation in the value of 
these assets when translated into sterling, 
the policy is to hedge the net assets using 
a mixture of debt and foreign exchange 
swaps. Subsequent to the year end, the Board 
altered this policy to hedge only a proportion 
of the net assets. At 30th November 2008, 
there were no material currency exposures 
after accounting for the effect of hedging 
transactions. 
There is limited transactional exposure 
within the Group and, where exposures 
are regarded as highly probable, they are 
hedged.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss in relation to 
a financial asset due to non-payment by 
the customer or counterparty. The Group’s 
objective is to reduce its exposure to 
counterparty default by restricting the type of 
counterparty it deals with and by employing an 
appropriate policy in relation to the collection 
of financial assets. The Group’s principal 
financial assets are cash, derivative financial 
instruments and receivables which represent 
the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk 
in relation to financial assets.
The credit risk in relation to cash and derivative 
financial instruments is limited because Group 
policy restricts its dealings to counterparties 
with high credit ratings, and with which it has 
an ongoing banking relationship. The Group 
has set maximum permitted exposures with 
each counterparty.
For receivables, the amounts presented in 
the balance sheet are net of allowances for 
doubtful receivables estimated by the Group’s 
management based on prior experience and 
their assessment of the current economic 
environment. The maximum exposure to credit 
risk for trade receivables and other financial 
assets is represented by their carrying amount. 
There are no significant exposures to any 
one customer.
Kevin Higginson
Group Finance Director
19th February 2009
Movie screen is a high-tech fabric 
developed for use in cinemas, projection 
screens and home entertainment, using 
a special top coating lacquer which 
produces a matt surface finish with a very 
high reflection coefficient. The end result 
is that from every seat in the cinema the 
screen reflects light with the same light-
intensity and contrast.
Case Study
Movie screen — 
improving the visual 
experience for all 
movie goers  LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 20
DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS
Mr Duncan Clegg
Non-Executive Chairman (66)
Appointed Chairman in June 2001 and has been a Non-Executive 
Director since 1994. Former Vice-Chairman of the Port of London 
Authority and has held a number of other non-executive positions. 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Mr Paul Forman
Group Chief Executive (43)
Appointed as a Director and Group Chief Executive in 
September 2002. Previously a main board director of the 
Unipart Group of Companies Limited, where his main 
responsibility was managing the European Automotive 
Aftermarket Division. A member of the Nomination committee. 
A non-executive director of Brammer PLC.
Mr Kevin Higginson
Group Finance Director (49)
Appointed as Director and Group Finance Director in 
September 2006. A chartered accountant, he was previously 
Group Finance Director of the BSS Group PLC. Prior to his role 
at BSS, he held various senior positions, including Group Chief 
Executive and Group Finance Director with Hazlewood Foods plc.
Mr Steve Hannam
Senior Non-Executive Director (59) 
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2002. A 
non-executive director of AZ Electronic Materials Services Limited 
and an Operating Partner with Advent International plc. Formerly 
non-executive director with Clariant AG, Chairman of Aviagen 
International Inc. and Group Chief Executive of BTP Chemicals plc. 
Senior independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee and, 
until 11th February 2009, of the Nomination Committee.
Company Secretary 
Matthew Joy
Registered ofﬁ ce 
Whitehall House
33 Yeaman Shore
Dundee 
DD1 4BJ
Head ofﬁ ce 
9th Floor
Marble Arch Tower
55 Bryanston Street
London 
W1H 7AA
Telephone 020 7535 3180 
Fax 020 7535 3181
Website www.lowandbonar.com 
Registered number: SC008349
1 RD Clegg* Chairman
2 PA Forman Group Chief Executive
3 KM Higginson Group Finance Director 
4 SJ Hannam*
5 C Littmoden*
6 FB Blaisse*
7 MC Flower*
* Non-Executive
1 2 3 4 21 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
Mr Chris Littmoden
Non-Executive Director (65)
Appointed as Non-Executive Director in February 2005. A 
chartered accountant he was previously a main board director 
at Marks & Spencer PLC for eight years. Since leaving Marks & 
Spencer, he has held several non-executive positions. 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the 
Audit Committee.
Mr Folkert Blaisse
Non-Executive Director (63) 
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in January 2007. Chairman 
of Colbond between 2004 and 2006 until the business was 
acquired by Low & Bonar in July 2006. A director of Acordis 
Beheer BV, non-executive director of Cordenka Investments BV 
and of Corsadi BV. He was previously Chief Executive Officer of 
Acordis from 1999 to 2006 and from 1971 held several senior 
roles at Akzo Nobel, culminating in his appointment in 1998 as 
executive board member of Akzo Nobel NV. A member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Mr Martin Flower
Non-Executive Director (62) 
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in January 2007. Chairman 
of Croda International Plc, Chairman of Alpha Group Plc and a 
non-executive director of Morgan Crucible Company plc and 
Autogrill Group Inc. Previously, he was Chief Executive of Coats 
plc, a company in which he spent his entire executive career 
having joined in 1968. Former deputy Chairman of Severn Trent 
Plc. A member of the Audit Committee and, from 11th February 
2009, of the Nomination Committee.
Advisers
Registrar 
Computershare Investor 
Services PLC 
Lochside House 
7 Lochside Avenue 
Edinburgh Park 
Edinburgh 
EH12 9DJ 
Telephone 0870 702 0010
Auditors 
KPMG Audit Plc 
Solicitors 
Freshﬁ elds Bruckhaus 
Deringer LLP 
Principal bankers 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Bayerische Landesbank
KBC Bank NV 
Corporate ﬁ nance advisers 
NM Rothschild & Sons Limited 
Brokers 
RBS Hoare Govett Ltd
Numis Securities Limited 
5 6 7 22 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS  
The Directors present their report and the accounts of the Company and the Group for the year ended 30th November 2008.
Principal activities 
The Report of the Directors should be read in conjunction with the Chairman’s Statement, the Group Chief Executive’s Business Review and the 
Group Finance Director’s Review, which contain details of the principal activities of the Group during the year and an indication of likely future 
developments.
Business review
The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the development of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 
30th November 2008 and of the position of the Group at the end of that financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing 
the Group (known as a ‘Business Review’). The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Group Chief 
Executive’s Business Review on pages 10 to 15, the Group Finance Director’s Review on pages 16 to 19 and on pages 25 to 27 of the report on the 
Group’s management of risk, health and safety and the environment.
Results and dividends 
The Group’s consolidated profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company was £60.5m (2007: £13.1m).
In the light of the Company’s Placing and Open Offer, the Board has decided not to pay a final dividend in relation to the financial year ended 
30th November 2008 (2007: 3.10p). It is the Board’s intention, subject to the Group’s trading position and prevailing economic circumstances, to 
resume dividend payments for the year to 30th November 2009. It is the Board’s intention that the level of the dividend payment would be established 
at a sustainable level with the dividend per share to be covered at least twice by earnings per share (before amortisation and non-recurring items). 
The interim dividend of 1.925p per share (2007: 1.75p) already paid will, therefore, constitute the total dividend on the Ordinary Shares for the year 
(2007: 4.85p). 
   % 
   Increase
Dividends 2008 2007 (decrease)
Interim 1.925p 1.75p 10.0
Final — 3.10p n/a
Total 1.925p 4.85p (60.3)
Directors
The present Directors of the Company are shown on pages 20 and 21; they all held office throughout the financial year under review. 
The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors. The 
Directors also have the benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. The Company has executed deeds 
of indemnity for the benefit of each Director of the Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the 
Company or of associated companies. These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by Section 234 of the 
Companies Act 2006, were entered into in June 2008 and are currently in force.
Re-election of Directors
The Directors who will be proposed for reappointment at the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2009, which is expected to be held on 6th May 
2009, will be set forth in the notice convening that meeting.
Directors’ interests 
The interests of Directors in the shares and debentures of the Company are shown on page 38. 23 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
Substantial interests 
At the date of this report, the Company’s register of substantial shareholdings showed the following interests in 3% or more of the Company’s issued 
ordinary shares
Shareholder Shares % 
Aberforth Partners LLP 21,110,381 13.66
M & G Investment Management Ltd. 15,153,744 9.80
Schroder Investment Management Ltd. (SIM) 11,875,000 7.68
Hermes Fund Managers Limited 11,184,289 7.24
Aberdeen (Institutional Group) 10,133,625 6.56
AXA (Institutional Group) 8,521,493 5.51
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. (UK) 6,541,071 4.23
Dimensional (Institutional Group) 5,249,093 3.40
Standard Life Investments Ltd. 5,049,250 3.27
Ordinary share capital
Details of the Company’s authorised and issued share capital at 30th November 2008 and of options granted and shares issued pursuant to the 
Company’s employee share option schemes and long-term incentive plans are shown in note 23 to the accounts. The Company has, as at the date of 
this report, called a General Meeting of shareholders for 11th March 2009 at which shareholders will be asked to vote on certain resolutions connected 
with the fund-raising announced by the Company on 19th February 2009 which, if passed, will (a) divide each of the issued ordinary shares of 25 pence 
each in the share capital of the Company into one ordinary share of 5 pence (the “New Ordinary Shares”), and one deferred share of 20 pence (the 
Deferred Shares), (b) divide each of the authorised but unissued ordinary shares of 25 pence in the capital of the Company into five ordinary shares 
of five pence each ranking pari passu in all respects with each other and with the ordinary shares of five pence each arising pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above; (c) increase the authorised share capital of the Company from £50,400,000 divided into £100,000 6% First Cumulative Preference Stock, 
£100,000 6%. Second Cumulative Preference Stock, £200,000 5½%. Third Cumulative Preference Stock and 200,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 25 pence 
each, to £57,024,477.95 divided into £100,000 6% First Cumulative Preference Stock, £100,000 6% Second Cumulative Preference Stock, £200,000 5½% 
Third Cumulative Preference Stock and 514,204,951 New Ordinary Shares of five pence each and one Deferred Share of 20 pence each for each New 
Ordinary Share in issue at the close of business on 11th March 2009. Further details of these changes to the share capital, including the rights attaching 
to the Deferred Shares, were set out in the prospectus issued by the Company on 19th February 2009.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting is expected to be held at The Cumberland Hotel, Great Cumberland Place, London, W1A 4RF on 6th May 2009. The 
notice of meeting will be sent to shareholders shortly. The resolutions to be proposed will authorise the Directors to allot relevant securities and to 
allot equities for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis. A resolution will also be proposed to authorise the Company to purchase its own shares, as 
and if thought appropriate. 
Going concern 
UK Company Law requires Directors to consider whether it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the basis that the Company and the 
Group are going concerns. 
The Directors have reviewed the Group’s medium-term forecasts along with reasonable downside scenarios, both with and without the proceeds of 
the proposed Placing and Open Offer, to determine whether the committed banking facilities are sufficient to support the Group’s projected liquidity 
requirements, and whether the forecast earnings are sufficient to meet the covenants associated with the banking facilities.
As a result of this review, the Directors are of the opinion that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future, and have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Employment of disabled persons 
It is the policy of the Group to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment received from disabled persons, having regard to 
their particular aptitudes and abilities, and wherever possible to continue the employment of, and to arrange appropriate training for, employees 
who have become disabled persons during the period of their employment. The Group provides the same opportunities for training, career 
development and promotion for disabled as for other employees. 24 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS  
CONTINUED
Employee involvement 
The Group’s overall policy is to keep employees informed on matters of concern to them and to encourage employee involvement. This policy 
is implemented in a wide variety of ways, which are reported on by the Group’s businesses, including the regular publication of a newsletter, 
‘Your Low & Bonar’, which is translated into the main languages of our employees at least twice a year, and regular meetings with employees’ 
representatives.
Payment of suppliers 
The Company’s policy and practice is to pay agreed invoices in accordance with the terms of payment agreed with suppliers at the time orders are 
placed. As the Company is a holding company, it has no trade creditors.
Charitable and political contributions 
The Company made a donation to charity of £15,000 in 2008 (2007: £15,000). 
Information to Auditors 
The Directors who held office at the date of this Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s Auditor is unaware; and that each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s Auditor is aware of that information.
The Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Matthew Joy
Company Secretary
19th February 2009 25 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
REPORT ON THE GROUP’S MANAGEMENT OF 
RISK, HEALTH AND SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The Company’s approach to risk management
Each of our operating businesses and individual sites face a variety of risks that, if not properly identified and controlled, may compromise 
performance, the ability to meet its strategic objectives and acceptable levels of risk control.
The Board continues to oversee and accept ultimate responsibility for identifying and managing these risks. Management of key risks, health and 
safety and the environment remains a core issue for the Board agenda. Identification and management of various categories of risks also forms an 
integral part of the activities of the Group Executive Management and the Group Risk Management Committee (the “RMC”), who report to the Board 
via the Group Chief Executive and the Audit Committee, respectively.
The Board identifies, evaluates and reviews key risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Group relating to issues concerning the 
Group’s portfolio strategy and its level of gearing. The Board also monitors and reviews the investment performance and funding level of the 
Company’s defined benefit pension schemes.
The Group Executive Management consists of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, a Divisional Managing Director and the 
Director of New Business. The Group Executive Management meets on a regular basis and identifies, evaluates and monitors risks relating to, 
amongst others, financial deliverability and control, raw materials and failure to deliver the anticipated benefits on high capital expenditure projects.
The RMC continues to review and monitor Group risks, principally relating to all physical hazards to operating plant, health and safety issues, legal 
and operational compliance, supply continuity, employee-related health issues and product liability. The RMC also seeks to focus and co-ordinate 
operational risk management activities throughout the Group by the dissemination of agreed best practices.
The RMC comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, together with relevant members of Divisional management, the Head of 
Internal Audit, the Group Risk Manager and the Group Assistant Company Secretary. The RMC meets on a regular basis and at least four 
times a year.
Throughout the year, the Group has continued to focus on the progression of improving controls for both existing risks and the identification 
of emerging risks both in existing operations and in the recently acquired businesses. During the year, the RMC reviewed the standards and 
expectations covering all significant aspects of risk identification and control and issued a revised Group risk manual. The Group Risk Manual, 
which was revised and circulated in December 2007, has been translated into all relevant languages to aid understanding and integration into line 
management philosophy.
The Group Risk Manual contains the Group’s policies regarding risk, health and safety issues, detailing specific expectations and agreed good 
practices, and is part of the Group Risk Manager’s auditing programme.
Management of environmental issues
One of the consistent and core objectives of the Group’s environmental policy is to ensure that our manufacturing operations worldwide are 
managed responsibly, in materially full compliance with all relevant country of operation laws and regulations, and that environmental damage or 
nuisance does not, as far as is practicable, occur as a result of a failure of any control or process throughout our operations. The Group continually 
reviews and evaluates its processes and practices and, where possible, takes action to reduce any potential impact of its operations on the 
environment. As a consequence of this ongoing programme of evaluation, the following action has been taken
:: To assist in the identification and proper control of environmental concerns, the Group’s environmental self audit programme, based upon the 
standards contained in BS 14001, developed and applied to the Group’s locations in 2005, was upgraded, translated into all relevant languages 
and circulated to all current operating businesses. Results from the self audit showed a high level of compliance with relevant codes and 
environmental country of operation laws and regulations. Areas of shortfall identified by the audit were limited to relatively minor issues of 
containment and emergency spillage responses and equipment.
:: The Group has previously undertaken a review to identify asbestos within all of its locations; this review was extended in the year to include the 
Group’s operations in China. Where asbestos materials have been identified, the materials have either been removed or encapsulated. Where 
removal or encapsulation is not easy to complete, such as in inaccessible roof coverings, steps have been taken to manage the situation whilst 
leaving ACM (asbestos containing materials) in situ. 
:: Recycling programmes for both process and general waste are actively encouraged throughout the Group to maximise the efficient use of raw 
material. The Colbond unique non-woven backing for the carpet manufacturing industry, Colback SMR, made of 100% post-consumer recycled 
bottle scrap, continues to prove a success; and a new shredding and recycling plant, introduced into the Group’s Ostend production facility, now 
allows for significant recovery of material from waste streams from both the Dundee and Ostend locations. Research is also under way with other 
businesses within the Group to evaluate the potential recovery and recycling of their production waste. 26 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
REPORT ON THE GROUP’S MANAGEMENT OF  
RISK, HEALTH AND SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT 
CONTINUED
:: A full review of water usage throughout the Group’s locations was conducted during the year, resulting in significant savings in both consumption 
and cost. As a result of the review of water consumption, the MTX facility in Fulda ceased the abstraction of water from the Fulda River for its 
production processes. In Asheville, significant savings in water usage were made by a concerted effort to eliminate leakages from old non-
Colbond plant and facilities.
The Group remains a member of the Valpak packaging scheme for its UK subsidiaries, and meets fully the requirement of the packaging waste 
obligations.
The Group remains committed to the assessment of its use of hazardous substances with the aim of replacing these with safer alternatives where 
appropriate.
The Group currently does not have any outstanding environmental enforcement requirements or regulatory notices imposed at any of its 
manufacturing facilities.
The Group’s disaster contingency plans, which include the effective control of any potential environmental incidents, are reviewed and updated on a 
regular basis and a review of documentation and planning has been scheduled for 2009/10. 
The Group retains, from the sale of its North American packaging operations in 2000, some responsibility for the remediation of known 
environmental contamination in the vicinity of one of the facilities in Burlington, Ontario. Further details are provided in note 33 to the accounts.
Investigation of environmental controls of the Group’s businesses continues to be a part of the due diligence process for all potential acquisitions, 
with surveys being conducted at an early stage in the assimilation of acquisitions to ensure the Group’s high expectations are met and that any 
shortfalls are fully identified and costed.
The Group has procedures in place to ensure that management considers the environmental impact of processes when developing new products. 
The environmental properties of the products we develop and intend to market will be considered at each stage of the development and 
manufacture of all new products.
Management of health and safety
The health and safety of our employees and others who may be affected by the Group’s operations remains an integral part of line management 
responsibility. Each location has designated personnel to ensure that health and safety issues are given proper attention. The communication 
of health and safety matters with employees remains core to ensuring that health and safety issues are integral to operations and that standards 
continue to improve within the Group. 
The Board and the RMC actively review and monitor detailed statistical performance from each site within the Group and each business, detailing 
accidents and incidents to identify trends and focus on areas where improvements are required. In some instances, such a review has led to an in-
depth health and safety audit at specific sites and on specific machinery involving on-site management and external specialists. Where appropriate, 
action plans were developed during the year from these audits which have already resulted in improvements to accident rates and risk control 
performance. It is the intention that these audits will be extended throughout 2009 to all operating sites, including those recently acquired. Details of 
accidents and incidents are communicated between locations as appropriate in order that preventative action can be taken. 
In the year to 30th November 2008, the Group continued to outperform significantly against the European Union three-plus days lost-time accident 
benchmark for its peer group with a lost-time accident rate of 2,383 accidents per hundred thousand staff employed, compared to a European 
average in comparative sectors of 3,505. During the year, an increasing number of sites recorded no lost time accidents on the national defined 3+ 
days or Group-imposed 1+ day standard.
Other assessments undertaken by our business during the year were
:: Fire risk assessments were conducted throughout all Group locations, in order to meet existing and foreseeable future fire regulations. The 
assessments of the MTX plants at Lomnice resulted in a number of actions regarding the supply and use of fire-fighting water and the fixed 
protection of the coating plant. At Fulda, additional fire drench systems were installed during the year to a coating line unit.
:: Assessments of thermal oil systems used extensively throughout the Group were undertaken during the year resulting in a number of 
improvements to boiler and distribution pipe-work, oil containment and emergency isolation and shutdown procedures. The improvements  27 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
on oil containment not only significantly reduce potential fire spread risks, but assist in the elimination and control of oil spillage with the 
production sites.
Risk management and heath and safety issues are also reviewed in a rolling programme of visits to each location by the Group Risk Manager. The 
Group Risk Manager works closely with the Group’s insurance risk surveyors and the Group’s insurance brokers, and their recommendations form 
an integral part of the internal audit reviews. The insurers’ surveyors visited three of the Group’s sites in the year and will visit the remaining sites in 
2009/10. No remedial action was mandated by the surveyors at any visits in 2008.
The Colbond Obernburg location received a completely clear survey with management being complimented by the surveyor on their risk 
management controls and procedures.
The Group values its partnership with its insurers’ risk specialists and its insurance brokers and works in partnerships with them to develop agreed 
steps for the continuing process of improvement of potential risk controls.
Further information on how the Group manages risk is provided in the Internal Control section on pages 31 and 32. 28 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
This report explains how the Company complied with the provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council in July 2006. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and to applying the 
Principles of Good Governance set out in the revised Combined Code. The Directors can confirm compliance throughout the year with the revised 
Combined Code with the following exception: the Nomination Committee does not comprise a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Whilst the Nomination Committee, which comprises the Chairman, a Non-Executive Director and the Group Chief Executive, leads the process 
of Board appointments, the Chairman will consult with all the Directors on a regular basis throughout the process. In the opinion of the Board, the 
constitution of the Committee is therefore appropriate given the size of the Board and the process undertaken for Board appointments. Further detail 
of the appointment process is provided in the section on the Nomination Committee below. 
The Board
The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors. The Board’s main objectives are to create value for shareholders, to approve the Group’s 
strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable them to meet those objectives. 
The Board has a formal schedule of reserved powers, which it retains for Board decision-making on a range of key issues, including the formulation 
of Group strategy; the approval of the annual budget; the approval of reported financial statements and dividends; the approval of acquisitions, 
divestments and significant items of capital expenditure; and changes to the Group’s risk management strategy.
The Roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined. The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, 
facilitating the effective contribution of all members and ensuring that it operates effectively in the interests of shareholders. The Group Chief 
Executive is responsible for leadership of the business and implementation of strategy.
Director and Directors’ independence
The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors. The names of 
the Directors, together with their biographical details, are set out on pages 20 and 21. 
A Non-Executive Director, Mr Duncan Clegg, chairs the Board. The Group Chief Executive is Mr Paul Forman and the Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director is Mr Steve Hannam. The independent Non-Executive Directors challenge constructively and help develop proposals on strategy, 
and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Board’s deliberations. The Board believes that an effective balance of 
power and authority is maintained through the number and calibre of Non-Executive Directors. All Directors have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary and there is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Company’s expense.
Details of Mr Clegg’s professional commitments are included in the Chairman’s biography. The Board is satisfied that these are not such as to 
interfere with the performance of the Chairman’s duties for the Group, which are based around a commitment of at least one day and no more than 
two days per week.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are not employees of the Group.
The Board considers that Mr Hannam, Mr Littmoden, Mr Flower and Mr Blaisse, the Non-Executive Directors of the Company, are independent in 
character and judgement. 
The Board considers Mr Blaisse to be independent in character and judgement although he was Chairman of Colbond between 2004 and 2006 until 
the business was acquired by Low & Bonar in July 2006. He is currently a Director of Acordis Beheer BV (the former owner of Colbond) and was the 
Chief Executive Officer of this company during the period 1999 to 2006. The Board considers that there are substantial benefits of having a Non-
Executive Director who has significant international expertise in the speciality materials market and is familiar with this business.
All Directors are required to offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Professional development and performance evaluation
The Board has adopted a policy of providing appropriate training for all new Directors who have not previously received such training. A personal 
induction programme is provided for each new Director, depending on the experience and needs of the individual. On appointment, they receive 
information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the principal 
Board and management committees, and the powers delegated to those committees, and the latest financial information about the Group. This is 
supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with key senior executives. 29 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
The Board has established a process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board and its principal committees. A 
list of questions is drawn up by the Chairman with the assistance of the Company Secretary. These questions provide a framework for the evaluation 
process. During the year, the Chairman held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present. The Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director conducts the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of all Directors. 
Information and Meetings
The Board meets regularly to review the performance of the Company and to formulate strategy and is supplied in advance of each meeting with an 
agenda and papers covering the financial and operating performance of the Group’s businesses and other matters to be considered at the meeting. 
These papers are supplemented by information specifically requested by the Directors from time to time. The Divisional Managing Director 
attends the Board meetings on a regular basis to present to the Board on the performance of businesses with the Group. The Board also receives 
presentations on a regular basis from the Group Head of Strategy and the Director of Management Development.
The full Board met on ten occasions during the year ended 30th November 2008 and those meetings were attended by all the Directors except 
Mr Hannam, who did not attend one meeting. One of these meetings was held at the Company’s manufacturing facility in Hückelhoven, Germany. 
These meetings concentrate on strategy, and financial and business performance. Additional meetings, including of certain ad hoc committees, were 
called during the year to deal with specific matters.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. All of the committees have 
written terms of reference approved by the Board. The terms of reference of the committees are available on the Company’s website on the 
following link: www.lowandbonar.com/lwb/csr/terms, or on request from the Company Secretary.
Conflicts
With effect from 1st October 2008, a Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) to avoid a situation in which he has or can have 
a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company. The Act allows Directors of public companies to 
authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where the Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect. Shareholders approved amendments 
to the Company’s Articles of Association at the Annual General Meeting held in April 2008 which included provisions giving the Directors authority 
to approve such situations. The Board considered each Director’s conflicts or potential conflicts of interest prior to 1st October 2008 and has a 
procedure when deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest. Only independent Directors (i.e. those that have no interest 
in the matter under consideration) take the relevant decision. In addition, the Board considers each conflict situation separately on its particular facts; 
considers the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of a Director’s duties under the Act; keeps records and Board minutes as to authorisations 
granted by Directors and the scope of any approvals given; and regularly reviews conflict authorisations (at least annually). In addition, the Directors 
are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee currently comprises Steve Hannam, Chairman of the Committee, Chris Littmoden and Martin Flower. 
The Committee is made up entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors. The Committee collectively has the skills and experience required to 
fully discharge its duties, and has access to independent advice at the Group’s expense. Chris Littmoden is considered by the Board to have recent 
and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year. The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board to discharge its duties with regard 
to the Group’s financial affairs and for reviewing with the external Auditor the adequacy of the Group’s accounting and financial and operating 
controls. The Committee is responsible for monitoring and controlling the effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations 
to the Board in relation to the appointment and reappointment of the external Auditor. During the year, the Committee undertook a formal review 
of the external Auditor which included a re-tender presentation. Following the review, the Committee recommended to the Board that the Group’s 
external audit work should not be put out to third party tender during 2008. 30 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
CONTINUED
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external Auditor is maintained, 
including reviewing non-audit services and fees. It has developed and implemented a policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external 
Auditor to ensure their continued objectivity and independence. The Committee is satisfied that the provision by KPMG Audit Plc of non-audit 
services currently provided does not impair their independence or objectivity. The Audit Committee has approved the range of services that may 
be provided by KPMG Audit Plc. These include taxation compliance services, transaction due diligence and reporting accountant roles. Subject to 
approved authorisation limits, the services require prior authorisation from either the Group Finance Director, the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
or the full Audit Committee. The Committee is satisfied that the majority of the tax services supplied by KPMG Audit Plc during the year were 
compliance related or related principally to foreign advisory work that required a detailed understanding of the Group and which did not impair 
their independence.
The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year and those meetings were attended by all of the Committee members. The meetings 
of the committee coincide with key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle. The external Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, and the Group Internal 
Auditor, who reports directly to the Audit Committee, attend these meetings regularly. The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director also generally join at least part of Audit Committee meetings by invitation. The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Group 
Risk Manager, who may also attend meetings by invitation. The Committee Chairman may call a meeting at the request of any member, the 
Company’s external Auditor or the Group Internal Auditor. The Audit Committee meets privately with the external Auditor and the Group Internal 
Auditor at least once a year. 
In 2008 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by
:: reviewing the Group’s draft financial statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval and reviewing the external Auditor’s 
detailed reports thereon;
:: reviewing the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies;
:: reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Group’s external Auditor;
:: reviewing the external Auditor’s plan for the audit of the Group’s accounts, which included key areas of extended scope work, key risks on the 
accounts, confirmations of Auditor independence and the proposed audit fee;
:: reviewing an annual report on the Group’s system of internal control and its effectiveness and reporting to the Board on the results of the review;
:: receiving regular reports from the Group Internal Auditor following operational audits; and
:: reviewing regular reports of the Group Risk Manager.
The Audit Committee is entitled to obtain, at the expense of the Company, such external advice as it sees fit on any matters falling within its terms of 
reference.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the following Non-Executive Directors of the Company, all of whom are considered by the Board 
to be independent: Mr Chris Littmoden (Chairman of the Remuneration Committee); Mr Steve Hannam; and Mr Folkert Blaisse. The Remuneration 
Committee met on five occasions during the year ended 30th November 2008 and those meetings were attended by all of the committee members. 
The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the Company’s broad policy for executive remuneration, including both short-
term and long-term incentive arrangements, and for reviewing, at least annually, the entire remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and 
certain other senior executives of the Company. The Committee is also responsible for recommending the Chairman’s remuneration to the Board in 
compliance with the revised Combined Code. The Committee is entitled to obtain, at the expense of the Company, such external advice as it sees fit 
on any matters falling within its terms of reference. 
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and Mr Martin Flower, a Non-Executive Director (who replaced 
Mr Steve Hannam, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on 11th February 2009). The Nomination Committee was not required to meet 
during the 2008 financial year but did meet on 11th February 2009 to consider the re-election by shareholders of Directors under the ‘retirement by’ 
rotation provisions in the Company’s Articles of Association and to review the structure, size and composition (including the skills, knowledge and 
experience) required of the Board compared to its current position.
The constitution of the Nomination Committee does not comply with the revised Combined Code as it does not comprise a majority of independent 
Non-Executive Directors. Whilst the Nomination Committee leads the process of Board appointments, the Chairman will consult with all of the 
Directors on a regular basis throughout the process. All appointments are also subject to the review and approval of the full Board and all Directors 
will be invited to meet with a candidate before their appointment is recommended to the Board. In the opinion of the Board, the constitution of the 
Committee is, therefore, appropriate given the size of the Board and the process undertaken for Board appointments. 31 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
The Committee, which is established with formal written terms of reference, is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and 
composition of the Board compared to its current position and for making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes, including 
recommending candidates for appointment as both Executive and Non-Executive Directors. Appointments are discussed fully before a proposal is 
made to the Board. The selection criteria are agreed by the Committee Chairman in conjunction with his colleagues. Use is made of independent 
recruitment consultants and the final appointment rests with the full Board.
Relations with shareholders
The Company maintains good communications with its shareholders through its interim and annual reports and through information posted on its 
website at www.lowandbonar.com. The Company holds regular meetings throughout the year with major shareholders, analysts and the financial 
press, in particular following the announcements of its interim and full year results. Visits for analysts and large shareholders are also arranged 
from time to time to operating units. The Company’s Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors. 
Shareholders attending the annual general meeting are invited to ask questions and to meet with the Directors informally after the meeting. The 
Company also usually arranges a presentation on one of its businesses to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Mr Clegg, as Chairman of 
the Board and Nomination Committee, Mr Hannam, as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Mr 
Littmoden, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will answer questions, as appropriate, at the annual general meeting. Shareholders are 
given the opportunity of voting separately on each proposal. The numbers of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution are announced after 
the resolution has been voted on by a show of hands. During the year, the Company also held two other general meetings at which shareholders 
had an opportunity to ask questions and to meet with Directors. Full details of all proxy votes, indicating the number of shares in respect of proxy 
appointments and votes for, against and withheld are displayed on the Company’s website immediately following the completion of the Annual 
General Meeting.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
Internal Control
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the systems of internal control within the Group. The purpose of these systems is to provide 
reasonable assurance as to the reliability of financial information and to maintain proper control over the income, expenditure, assets and liabilities 
of the Group. The Board has also reviewed in detail the areas of major risk that the Group faces in its operations. It has noted and is satisfied with the 
current control mechanisms and reporting lines that have been in place throughout the year. However, no system of control can provide absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. In carrying out their review, the Directors have regard to what controls in their judgement are 
appropriate to the Group’s businesses, to the materiality and the likelihood of the risks inherent in these businesses, and to the relative costs and 
benefits of implementing specific controls.
The Group views the careful management of risk as a key management activity. Much of the Group’s work in the area of risk management is 
facilitated by the Risk Management Committee, further details of which are set out on pages 25 to 27 above. The Risk Management Committee 
operates under formal terms of reference established by the Board and accords with Turnbull guidance. The Risk Management Committee initiates, 
directs, delegates and oversees all risk management activities within the Group and provides the forum to investigate the effectiveness of current 
control strategies and develop specific action plans for remedial work where it considers this to be necessary. The Risk Management Committee 
is committed to continue to develop and embed risk management process within the Group and focuses on the risk management process with the 
following objectives
:: to raise the level of management awareness and accountability for the business risks experienced by the Group;
:: to develop risk management as part of the culture of the Group;
:: to provide a mechanism for risk management issues to be discussed and disseminated to all areas of the Group; and
:: to approve new Group-wide tools and techniques to assist in the management of risk.
The Board receives reports on the work of the Risk Management Committee and reports from management on internal controls on a regular basis. 
The Group Risk Manager reports to the Risk Management Committee and works closely with both Divisional management and the Head Office team. 
A report from the Group Risk Manager is provided to each meeting of the Audit Committee. The Head of Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to 
the Audit Committee and attends Audit Committee meetings by invitation. 32 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
CONTINUED
In addition to the risk review process and the internal audit function, the Group operates within an established internal financial control framework, 
which can be described under three headings
:: Financial reporting: There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Directors. Monthly actual results are 
reported against budget and revised forecasts for the year are prepared regularly.
:: Operating unit controls: Financial controls and procedures, including information system controls, are detailed in the Group Finance and 
Accounting Manual. All operating units are required to confirm annually their compliance with policies and procedures set out in the manual 
(including those relating to health, safety and the environment), local laws and regulations and report any control weaknesses identified in the 
past year. Independent confirmation of compliance is obtained annually for selected operating units.
:: Investment appraisal: The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure which are also set out in the Group Finance and 
Accounting Manual. These include detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and post-completion audits. Where businesses 
are being acquired, detailed due diligence is undertaken in advance of acquisition.
The Company is committed to ensuring that all employees comply with all anti-trust legislation. To ensure that relevant employees are aware of the 
issues and receive the appropriate level of training and information, the Group has a personalised online anti-trust compliance training programme 
which all relevant personnel within the Group are required to complete on a regular basis. A refresher training programme was developed in the 
year and all relevant employees completed the refresher programme in January and February 2009.
The continued development and implementation of the risk management and internal control system across the Group has allowed the Directors to 
comply with the revised Combined Code provisions on internal control in the course of the financial year ended 30th November 2008. 33 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON REMUNERATION
The Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) has adopted the principles of good governance relating to Directors’ remuneration as set out in 
the Combined Code. This report complies with the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules made by the United Kingdom Listing Authority. These 
regulations require the Company’s Auditor to report on the ‘audited information’ within the report and to state if this section of the report has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the regulations. This report has therefore been divided into separate sections for unaudited and audited 
information. 
The report covers the remuneration policy for Directors and includes specific disclosures relating to Directors’ emoluments, their shares and other 
interests. This remuneration report is being put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for an advisory vote. The vote will be in 
respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
PART 1: Unaudited information
1. The Remuneration Committee
The Committee currently comprises the following Non-Executive Directors of the Company: Mr Chris Littmoden, Chairman of the Committee from 
31st December 2006; Mr Folkert Blaisse; and Mr Steve Hannam. All of the Committee members are considered by the Board to be independent. 
The Company’s Chairman, Mr Duncan Clegg, is invited to attend meetings of the Committee other than when his own remuneration is under 
consideration. The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director may be invited to attend meetings of the Committee. The Committee 
keeps itself informed of all relevant developments and best practice in the field of remuneration and seeks advice where appropriate from 
external advisers. During the year, the Committee sought advice from Hewitt New Bridge Street (“HNBS”) and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 
LLP. The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Company Secretary also assist the Committee, except in relation to their own 
remuneration. HNBS has no connection with the Company other than in the provision of advice in relation to executive remuneration. Freshfields 
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP provides legal advice to the Company on matters other than remuneration on a regular and continuing basis.
The Committee’s remit is set out in the terms of reference which are approved by the Board. A copy of the terms of reference is available on the 
Company’s website. In 2008, the Committee recommended to the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive 
Directors and other senior executives.
2. Remuneration Policy
The Group’s remuneration policy is to ensure that the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior executives properly reflects their duties 
and responsibilities and is sufficient to recruit, retain and motivate high quality executive talent, whilst aligning the interests of senior executives 
as closely as possible with the interests of shareholders. The remuneration of the Executive Directors has been structured to provide a significant 
performance-related element linked to the achievement of stretching performance targets. 
Remuneration policy is reviewed on an ongoing basis against the Committee’s broad principles and in light of developments in corporate 
governance. For example, as a result of the Company’s revised strategy as outlined on pages 10 to 15 of this document, the Committee revisited 
the current policy and concluded that it remained appropriate. However, the targets that have been set for the annual bonus arrangements for the 
2009 financial year reflect our revised strategy. It is also the Committee’s intention to thoroughly review the targets which will apply to awards to be 
made in 2009 under the long-term incentive plan and the quantum of awards to be made in the light of corporate governance guidance and market 
conditions and expectations when awards fall to be made later in 2009. 
Furthermore, while not directly relevant to Low & Bonar, the Committee has considered the Company’s current remuneration policy in light of the 
recent Financial Services Authority’s (“FSA”) letter to Chief Executives of UK financial institutions. The conclusion of the Committee was that the 
current remuneration structure for the Company remains appropriate in light of the good practice suggestions of the FSA. 34 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON REMUNERATION  
CONTINUED
The main components of remuneration of the Executive Directors are as follows
 Objective Performance period Policy
Basic salary To position at a competitive level Annually Individual pay levels determined by reference
 for similar roles in comparable  to performance, skills and experience in post. 
 international manufacturing  Consideration given to the wider pay levels and
 companies and companies  salary increases across the Group.
 from across all FTSE Sectors.  
Performance  To incentivise delivery of 1 year Bonus payments are based on the achievement
related bonus performance objectives.  of challenging financial targets.
Long-term  To drive performance, aid 3 years Half of any award has been subject to EPS growth.
Incentive  retention and align the interests  The remaining half subject to the relative total
Plan/Share  of Executive Directors with  shareholder return (TSR) of the Company compared
Matching Plan shareholders.  against a broad index peer group. Performance 
   conditions are to be reviewed prior to awards being
   made later in 2009.
Other benefits To provide competitive benefits Ongoing Executive Directors receive a car allowance, private
 in line with market practice.  health insurance, death in service cover and a
    pension contribution. They may also join the SAYE
   share scheme.
i) Basic salary
When reviewing the base salaries of the Executive Directors, the Committee considers the individual’s role and responsibilities, performance, skills, 
experience and pay levels in similar roles in comparable international manufacturing companies and, more generally, companies from across all 
FTSE Sectors. For guidance, the Committee sources relevant comparative pay data from its advisers. Furthermore, due consideration is also given 
to the wider pay levels and salary increases being proposed across the Group. This year’s base salary increases awarded to senior executives have 
been lower than those at other levels within the organisation. Mr Forman received an annual basic salary of £303,000 during the year under review. 
His salary was reviewed by the Committee in December 2008 and was increased to £307,545 (or by 1.5%) with effect from 1st December 2008. 
Mr Higginson received an annual basic salary of £226,000 during the year under review. His salary was reviewed by the Committee and was 
increased to £231,500 (or by 2.4%) with effect from 1st December 2008. 
ii) Short-term bonus 
The maximum bonus potential for Executive Directors is set at 100% of basic salary. For the year ended 30th November 2008, 90% of the bonus 
potential was subject to a range of challenging financial targets relating to Group profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items (up to 63% 
of salary) and average net external borrowings (up to 27% of salary). Achievement of the borrowings target was also subject to a further profit 
underpin before any of this part of the bonus became payable. The remaining 10% of bonus potential (up to 10% of salary) was based upon the 
achievement of non-financial objectives the achievement of which was considered to have the potential to significantly contribute to the profitability 
of the Company. Based on performance against these targets (which were not adjusted during the year), the Executive Directors earned a bonus of 
37% of salary during the year. 
In 2009, the Executive Directors will again be eligible to receive a short-term bonus of up to 100% of salary. In light of current economic conditions, 
the targets set for the 2009 bonus have been thoroughly assessed by the Committee and will again be dependent on the achievement of Group profit 
(up to 50% of salary) and net average borrowing targets (up to 50% of salary), but no non-financial targets will be used. In addition, separate targets 
have been set for each half of the financial year but the aggregate payment will be subject to review by the Committee in light of performance for the 
entire financial year. The Committee has also reserved to itself the right to review the targets for performance in the second half of the year prior to 
the second half commencing.
In line with the Association of British Insurers’ Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Remuneration Committee will ensure that the 
incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior management will not raise environmental, social or governance (“ESG”) risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour. More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the Remuneration 
Committee which prevents it from taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters. 35 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
iii) Long-term incentive plans
a) The Low & Bonar 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “2003 LTIP”) 
The 2003 LTIP, which was approved by shareholders in February 2003, and amended by shareholders in August 2005, forms the long-term element 
of the remuneration structure for the Executive Directors and senior executives, together with the Share Matching Plan referred to below. 
Both restricted share awards (subject to challenging performance conditions and transferred to recipients without payment) and share options (also 
subject to performance conditions but requiring payment of an exercise price prior to transfer to recipients) may be granted under the 2003 LTIP. 
Executive Directors do not currently receive share options. At 30th November 2008, a total of seven current employees of the Group held restricted 
share awards and 39 held share options.
Executive Directors have historically received awards of restricted shares under the 2003 LTIP which have been subject to a combination of earnings 
per share (“EPS”) and total shareholder return (“TSR”) performance conditions. The maximum award that may be made to a participant in any 
financial year is 200% of salary, although awards to date have been restricted to 150% of salary. A summary of the awards made to the Executive 
Directors and the targets applying to each award are set out in Table 3 below. 
No awards were made to Executive Directors under the 2003 LTIP (or any other long-term incentive plan) during the year in lieu of the very 
significant awards made the previous year under the SMP (see below). Awards were restricted to other senior executives within the Group. 
It is the Committee’s current intention to make awards of restricted shares to the Executive Directors in the financial year ending 30th November 
2009 as the 2003 LTIP becomes the conduit for long-term incentivisation again. These awards are likely to be made in the period after the 
announcement of the Company’s interim results in 2009. However, the targets that will apply to these awards will be reviewed extensively in the 
light of corporate governance guidance and practice at the relevant time and may differ from those applying to awards in previous years. Details of 
the targets applying to awards to be made in 2009 will be announced in due course as appropriate. If materially different conditions are set for the 
awards to be made in 2009, it is the Committee’s intention to engage in dialogue with its major shareholders.
b) The Low & Bonar Share Matching Plan (the “SMP”)
The SMP was approved by shareholders in October 2007 with Executive Directors and senior executives eligible to receive “one-off” conditional 
awards linked to a personal investment in Low & Bonar shares. The SMP operated as the sole type of long-term incentive for Executive Directors 
for the financial year ended 30th November 2007 and no further awards were made during the year under review or are likely to be made in future 
under the Plan. Summary details of the Plan are set out below (full details were included in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report)
:: Matching awards of equivalent value to 750% of the Group Chief Executive’s salary and 500% of the Group Finance Director’s salary were made.
:: The awards were contingent on participants personally investing and/or lodging Shares into the SMP during the period between the date of 
grant of the matching award and 1st April 2009 to a maximum value of 150% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the 
Group Finance Director. Shares at the maximum level for the initial awards have been so lodged. 
:: Vesting of awards is subject to the achievement of very challenging three-year EPS and TSR targets (set out in Table 4 below). 
:: To provide a true long-term retention mechanism, the vesting of the matching awards is in three tranches (subject to meeting performance 
criteria): 40% in year three following the date of grant and 30% in each of years four and five. Vesting is subject to continued employment. 
The use of EPS and TSR performance targets in tandem in both the LTIP and SMP has been considered to provide a well-balanced set of 
performance measures focusing executives on internal and external performance. EPS is a key internal financial measure of performance and, 
therefore, provides strong alignment between strategy and performance. TSR focuses executives on the delivery of above market returns which 
fosters alignment with shareholders.
iv) Other share-based incentives
Executive Directors remain eligible to participate in the Low & Bonar 1997 Sharesave Scheme, which is open to all eligible UK employees. During 
the year, options were granted under three or five-year SAYE contracts at a 20% discount to the share price at the offer date. The maximum overall 
employee contribution is £250 per month. None of the Directors has an interest in this scheme except for Paul Forman.
During the year, the Company introduced the Low & Bonar 2007 Sharesave Scheme, which is open to a large number of the eligible non-UK 
employees and operates in a substantially similar way to the Low & Bonar 1997 Sharesave Scheme, for the first time in recognition of the fact that the 
majority of the Group’s employees work outside the UK. The Company was delighted by the take-up of the scheme, which exceeded expectations. 
None of the Directors has an interest in this scheme. 36 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON REMUNERATION  
CONTINUED
3. Directors’ Service Contracts and Letters of Appointment
i) Executive Directors
a) Mr Forman, Group Chief Executive
Mr Forman has entered into a service agreement dated 14th September 2002 (as amended in 2003 and 2008) in respect of his appointment as 
Group Chief Executive. 
His employment may be terminated by the Company giving him not less than 12 months’ notice in writing or by Mr Forman giving the Company 
not less than six months’ notice in writing. In the event of termination by the Company, the Company has the discretion to make a payment in lieu of 
notice (of his base salary plus other emoluments) and the Committee may award him a bonus for the year of termination. If Mr Forman’s employment 
is terminated within 12 months of a change of control of the Company, he will be entitled to a bonus in addition to the amount of any payment in lieu 
of notice. The bonus payable will be the average of the bonuses paid or payable to him in respect of the complete bonus years prior to the date on 
which his employment is terminated (subject to a maximum of three years preceding that date).
In setting notice periods under Directors’ service contracts, the Company’s policy is that they should be set at one year or less to reflect the 
recommendations of the Combined Code. In each case, the Remuneration Committee considers what compensation commitments their Directors’ 
terms of appointment would entail in the event of early termination of a Director’s service contract with the aim of avoiding rewarding poor 
performance. A robust line is taken on reducing compensation to reflect departing Directors’ obligations to mitigate loss.
b) Mr Higginson, Group Finance Director
Mr Higginson has entered into a service agreement dated 29th June 2006 in respect of his appointment as Group Finance Director commencing on 
5th September 2006. His employment may be terminated by the Company giving him not less than 12 months’ notice in writing or by Mr Higginson 
giving the Company not less than six months’ notice in writing. In the event of termination by the Company, the Company has the discretion to make 
a payment in lieu of notice (of his base salary plus other emoluments).
Both Mr Forman and Mr Higginson can be dismissed without notice for gross misconduct.
It is the Company’s policy that Board approval is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director. Any fees 
earned in relation to outside appointments are retained by the Executive Director.
ii) Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed pursuant to letters of appointment renewable for periods of three years as 
follows
   Renewed for 
 Original a period of
Name  appointment date 3 years from
Steve Hannam  1/9/2002  N/A
Chris Littmoden  23/2/2005  23/2/2008
Folkert Blaisse  1/1/2007  N/A
Martin Flower  1/1/2007  N/A
The appointment of the Non-Executive Directors may be terminated by either the Director or the Company giving six months’ notice in writing. 
During the year, the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors was reviewed by the Board (without the Non-Executive Directors participating 
in Board decisions). With effect from 1 December 2008, the ordinary annual fees for Non-Executive Directors were raised from £37,450 to £38,012 
(by 1.5%). The fee for chairing a Board committee remains at £5,000. The Board was satisfied that this increase was appropriate in light of increases 
given to other staff of the Group and the Board also considered that it was appropriate to maintain the Board at its current size given the experience 
and expertise of its Non-Executive component.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Company’s annual bonus scheme, in any of the Company’s share incentive schemes or in the 
Company’s pension schemes.
The Committee determines the remuneration of the Chairman. Remuneration paid to the Chairman and to the Non-Executive Directors during the 
year is shown in Table 2 below. 37 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
4. Chairman’s Service Agreement
Mr Duncan Clegg has a service contract with the Company dated 28th October 2004 (as amended by letters dated 18th January 2008 and 
11th February 2009) (the “Service Agreement”) under which his remuneration, until 30th November 2008, comprised cash and share elements. 
The cash element of Mr Clegg’s contract was £101,650 per annum and the fee for chairmanship of the Trustee Board of the Low & Bonar Group 
Retirement Benefit Scheme, the Company’s UK defined benefit pension scheme, was £7,500. The share element was £32,100. The share element was 
a number of shares derived by dividing the notional fee of £32,100 per annum by a reference share price which was reset periodically. The Share 
element was delivered to Mr Clegg on a six-monthly basis (net of tax deductions). Mr Clegg has agreed to retain the shares received under this 
arrangement for the period of his chairmanship. In January 2009, Mr Clegg’s arrangements were simplified so that his entire fee is now payable in 
cash at a revised level of £135,756.25 with effect from 1st December 2008.
Mr Clegg’s appointment may be terminated by either he or the Company giving six months’ notice in writing. He does not participate in the 
Company’s annual bonus scheme, in any of the Company’s share incentive schemes or in the Company’s pension schemes.
5. Performance Graph
The following graph illustrates the performance of the Company compared to the FTSE Small Cap Total Return Index (the “Index”) over the past 
five years. The Index has been chosen as the appropriate benchmark for the Company as it is a recognised broad equity market index of which 
the Company has been a member throughout the period. The Index is also one of the performance measurements for the award of shares made 
under the 2003 LTIP and the SMP. Performance as required by legislation is measured by TSR, being the increase on the share price over the period 
including the value of net dividends which are assumed to be reinvested in the Company’s shares on the ex dividend date by the Company.
 
PART 2: Audited Information
Table 1: Analysis of individual Directors’ emoluments
 Salaries  Annual  Benefits Total Total
 and fees  bonuses Pensions in kind
(1) 
2008 2007
 £ £ £ £ £ £
Executive Directors
PA Forman
(1)(2)(3)
 303,000 112,110 90,900 17,197 523,207 599,350
K Higginson
(1)(2)
 226,000 83,620 56,500 14,923 381,043 437,280
 529,000 195,730 147,400 32,120 904,250 1,036,630
Non-Executive Directors
RD Clegg
(4)
 141,250    141,250 131,350
SJ Hannam
(5)
 42,450    42,450 38,700
C Littmoden
(6)
 42,450    42,450 38,700
MC Flower 37,450    37,450 32,083
FB Blaisse 37,450    37,450 32,083
CE Davies
(7)
 —    — 3,225
 301,050    301,050 276,141
 830,050 195,730 147,400 32,120 1,205,300 1,312,771
 
Notes (notes continue on the next page)
(1)
 Benefits in kind are a car allowance, and health insurance for the Director and his spouse/children under 21.
(2)
 In addition to their salaries, the Executive Directors are entitled to a percentage of their basic salary to enable them to make retirement benefit 
arrangements. Payments made under this arrangement during the year were
250
200
150
100
50
30 Nov 
03
30 Nov 
04
30 Nov 
05
30 Nov 
06
30 Nov 
07
30 Nov 
08
0
This graph shows the value, by 30 November 2008, of £100 
invested in Low & Bonar PLC on 20 November 2003 compared with 
the value of £100 invested in the Index. The other points plotted 
are the values at intervening ﬁ nancial year ends.
Low & Bonar plc
FTSE Small Cap Index
Value (£) 38 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON REMUNERATION  
CONTINUED
    2008 2007
    Employer’s Total Total
   Cash contribution payment in payment in
  payment,  into respect of respect of
  subject to  personal retirement retirement
 % of statutory  pension benefit benefit
 annual deductions plan arrangements arrangements
Director basic salary £ £ £ £
PA Forman 30 71,460 19,440 90,900 88,500
K Higginson 25 — 56,500 56,500 55,000
  71,460 75,940 147,400 143,500
(3)
 Mr Forman was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Brammer PLC on 1st December 2006. During the year ended 30th November 2008, Mr 
Forman retained fees paid to him in performance of his external commitment at Brammer of £36,500.
(4)
 Included in the fee paid to Mr Clegg is a fee of £7,500 for his chairmanship of the Low & Bonar Group Retirement Benefit Scheme (the “Scheme”). 
This fee is recharged by the Company to the Scheme.
(5)
  Mr Hannam received a fee of £5,000 for his chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
(6)
  Mr Littmoden received a fee of £5,000 for his chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee.
(7)
 Mr Davies resigned as a Director on 31st December 2006.
Table 2: Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the Shares of the Company were
 30th November  1st December
 2008
(1)
 2007
RD Clegg  105,005 88,047
PA Forman  792,523 349,992
SJ Hannam  187,510 91,317
K Higginson 103,640 38,517 
C Littmoden  62,697 23,500
MC Flower 104,000 29,000 
FB Blaisse 40,000 30,000
Notes
(1)
 Prior to taking up entitlements in the placing and open offer in 2009.
(2)
 During the period 1st December 2008 to 19th February 2009, there were no changes in Directors’ interests notified to the Company. 
(3)
 No Director held any beneficial interest in or options over shares in or debentures of any other Group company at 30th November 2008 or at 
19th February 2009. 39 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
Table 3: The Low & Bonar 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “2003 LTIP”)
Awards held by Directors under the 2003 LTIP were as follows
 At 1st    At 30th
 December  Awarded Released Lapsed November Award Date of
Director 2007 in year in year in year 2008 price award
PA Forman 315,380 — 315,380 — — 53.64p 28th March 
       2003
(1)
PA Forman 544,976 — 359,682  185,294 — 111.75p 5th September 
       2005
(2)(3)
PA Forman 343,220 — — — 343,220 118.00p 30th August 
       2006
(2)(4)
K Higginson 185,263 — — — 185,263 118.75p 5th September 
       2006
(2)(4)
(1)
 This award vested in full on 28th March 2006, having satisfied all of the performance conditions (which were tested over a three-year performance 
period and included (a) a 125% increase in the Company’s share price, (b) EPS growth in excess of RPI + 6% and (c) share price growth above 
the FTSE Small Cap Total Return Index). In accordance with the rules of the 2003 LTIP, the vested shares have been transferred to Mr Forman in 
three equal tranches. The final tranche of 315,380 shares was transferred on 28th March 2008 (28th March 2007: 315,380 shares). The closing 
market price of a share on 28th March 2008 was 111.5 pence.
 
 In the prior year, on 11th September 2007, 84,101 shares were transferred to Mr Forman under the deferred bonus arrangements.
(2)
  The performance criteria applying to these awards were structured in two separate tiers
:: Tier 1 applies to awards of up to 100% of salary, with half of shares subject to an EPS growth condition and half a relative TSR condition 
measured against the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index. Under the EPS element, 25% of shares vest for average compound annual 
EPS growth of RPI + 4%, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for RPI + 9%. Under the TSR element, 25% of shares vest for median TSR, 
rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for upper quartile. 
:: Tier 2 applies to awards between 100% of salary and 200% of salary and similarly utilises an equal balance of EPS and TSR performance 
targets. Under the EPS element, no vesting takes place for average compound annual EPS growth of RPI + 9% rising on a straight-line basis 
to full vesting for RPI + 12%. Under the TSR element, no further vesting takes place for upper quartile TSR rising on a straight-line basis to full 
vesting for upper decile.
:: To reflect standard market practice and ensure EPS is measured on a consistent basis, EPS will be adjusted as appropriate in relation to the 
divestment of Bonar Floors in order to allow for a consistent measurement over the relevant performance period.
(3)
  This award partly vested during the year based on performance against the targets set out in (2) above: there was full vesting in the first pool and 
partial vesting in the second pool for EPS performance as the compound annual EPS growth was RPI plus 10.5% and partial vesting in the first 
pool for TSR performance and no vesting in the second pool as the Company’s TSR ranking over the relevant period was 97th out of 261 relevant 
companies in the comparator group. 
(4)
  Based on the performance condition set out in (2), the EPS element of these awards will be fully satisfied based upon the results of the Group for 
the year ended 30th November 2008, with vesting taking place in September 2009. The TSR element will be assessed in September 2009, at the 
expiry of the relevant performance period. 40 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON REMUNERATION  
CONTINUED
Table 4: Share Matching Plan
 No. of 
 matching shares 
Director to which awards relate Award price Date of award
PA Forman 1,766,585 125.24p 30th November 
   2007
(1)
K Higginson 878,302 125.24p 30th November
   2007
(1)
The performance criteria applying to these awards were structured in two separate tiers
:: Tier 1 applies to the first 40% of shares awarded, with half of shares subject to an EPS growth condition and half a relative TSR condition 
measured against the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index. Under the EPS element, threshold vesting (16.67% of shares for Mr PA Forman 
and 25% of shares for Mr K Higginson) takes place for average compound annual EPS growth of RPI + 8%, rising on a straight-line basis to full 
vesting for RPI + 12.5%. Under the TSR element, threshold vesting (as above) takes place for median TSR, rising on a straight-line basis to full 
vesting for upper quartile. 
:: Tier 2 applies to the remaining 60% of shares awarded and similarly utilises an equal balance of EPS and TSR performance targets. Under the 
EPS element, no vesting takes place for average compound annual EPS growth of RPI + 12.5% rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for 
RPI + 16.5%. Under the TSR element, no further vesting takes place for upper quartile TSR rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for upper 
decile.
:: To reflect standard market practice and ensure that EPS is measured on a consistent basis over the performance period, EPS will be adjusted as 
appropriate in relation to the divestment of Bonar Floors.
Directors’ share options
As at 30th November 2008, Paul Forman held 11,380 options under the Low & Bonar 1997 Sharesave Scheme. No options were granted or exercised 
by any Director during the year ended 30th November 2008. No options have been granted to any Director during the period 1st December 2008 to 
19th February 2009.
The market price of an Ordinary Share at 30th November 2008 was 40.5p and the range during the year to 30th November 2008 was 22.0p to 
124.25p.
Christopher Littmoden
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
On behalf of the Board of Directors
19th February 2009 41 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF 
THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable laws and have elected to prepare the 
Company financial statements on the same basis. The Group and Company financial statements are required by law and IFRSs, as adopted by the 
EU, to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the Company and the performance for that period. The Companies Act 1985 provides, in 
relation to such financial statements, that references, in the relevant part of that Act, to financial statements giving a true and fair view, are references 
to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors are required to
:: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
:: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
:: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
:: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have a general responsibility for taking 
such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and 
Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 42 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR  
TO THE MEMBERS OF LOW & BONAR PLC
We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements (the “financial statements”) of Low & Bonar PLC for the year ended 
30th November 2008 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent 
Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expenses, and the related notes. These 
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has 
been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
on page 41.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant 
legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ 
Report is consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that information presented in the Group 
Chief Executive’s Business Review on pages 10 to 15, the Group Finance Director’s Review on pages 16 to 19 and on pages 25 to 27 of the Report on 
the Group’s Management of Risk, Health and Safety and the Environment that is cross-referenced from the Business Review section of the Directors’ 
Report.
 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code 
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether 
the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance 
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements. We consider 
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our 
responsibilities do not extend to any other information. 43 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit 
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the 
preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s circumstances, 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us 
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall 
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion
:: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
30th November 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended; 
:: the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 30th November 2008;
:: the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
:: the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc 
Chartered Accountants 
Registered Auditor
Nottingham
19th February 2009 44 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30TH NOVEMBER 2008
 2008 2007
  (Restated)
1
  Before  Amortisation  Before Amortisation
  amortisation  and non-  amortisation and non-
  and non- recurring  and non- recurring
  recurring  items  recurring items
  items (note 5) Total items (note 5) Total
 Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 1 335.2 — 335.2 210.3 — 210.3
Operating profit 1 26.7 (7.6) 19.1 14.1 (3.0) 11.1
Non-operating expenses  5 —  (6.2) (6.2) — — —
Financial income 6 10.6 — 10.6 9.4 — 9.4
Financial expenses  6 (21.3) — (21.3) (13.1) — (13.1)
Net financing costs  (10.7) — (10.7) (3.7) — (3.7)
Profit before taxation  2 16.0 (13.8) 2.2 10.4 (3.0) 7.4
Taxation  7 (4.7) 2.1 (2.6) (3.0) 0.9 (2.1)
Profit/(loss) after taxation  11.3 (11.7) (0.4) 7.4 (2.1) 5.3
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
continuing operations  11.3 (11.7) (0.4) 7.4 (2.1) 5.3
Profit for the year from 
discontinued operations 29 6.3 54.5 60.8 8.4 (0.3) 8.1
Profit for the year  17.6 42.8 60.4 15.8 (2.4) 13.4
Attributable to
Equity holders of the Company  17.7 42.8 60.5 15.5 (2.4) 13.1
Minority interest 27 (0.1) — (0.1)  0.3 — 0.3
  17.6 42.8 60.4 15.8 (2.4) 13.4
Earnings/(loss) per share  10
Continuing operations:
Basic   7.37p  (0.20)p  4.62p  3.27p
Diluted  7.19p  (0.20)p 4.54p  3.22p
Discontinued operations:
Basic  4.10p  39.65p 5.54p  5.33p
Diluted  4.00p  38.70p 5.45p  5.24p
Total:
Basic  11.47p  39.45p 10.16p  8.60p
Diluted  11.19p  38.50p 9.99p  8.46p
1
 Restated following the disposal of the Floors Division (note 29) 45 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
BALANCE SHEETS  
AS AT 30TH NOVEMBER 2008
 Group Company
  2008 2007 2008 2007
 Note £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 11 82.3 48.0 — —
Intangible assets 12 56.5 21.2 — —
Property, plant and equipment 13 125.8 97.3 0.5 0.5
Investments in subsidiaries 14 — — 94.7 78.7
Investment in associate 15 0.3 0.2 — —
Deferred tax assets 20 2.7 2.8 0.1 0.8
Other receivables 17 — — 123.6 30.6
  267.6 169.5 218.9 110.6
Current assets
Inventories 16 73.8 51.3 — —
Trade and other receivables 17 72.2 61.5 86.2 84.9
Current tax receivable 17 — — — 0.8
Derivative assets 19 2.0 0.2 2.0 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents 19 27.5 5.8 23.2 0.6
  175.5 118.8 111.4 86.5
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 16.0 8.4 14.4 19.0
Current tax liabilities 18 8.4 5.7 — —
Trade and other payables 18 74.4 72.3 31.5 16.7
Provisions 21 2.3 — — —
Derivative liabilities 19 15.2 1.6 13.3 1.6
  116.3 88.0 59.2 37.3
Net current assets  59.2 30.8 52.2 49.2
Total assets less current liabilities  326.8 200.3 271.1 159.8
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 116.0 47.9 115.7 40.6
Deferred tax liabilities 20 28.3 15.1 — —
Post-employment benefits 4 11.9 4.8 4.4 1.2
Provisions 21 6.0 — 6.0 —
Other payables 22 0.1 1.4 34.0 29.3
  162.3 69.2 160.1 71.1
Net assets  164.5 131.1 111.0 88.7
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share capital 23 38.6 38.5 38.6 38.5
Share premium account 24 30.6 30.3 30.6 30.3
Translation reserve 25 (9.5) (1.9) (10.3) (0.1)
Retained earnings 26 100.1 61.1 52.1 20.0
Total equity attributable to
Equity holders of the parent 26 159.8 128.0 111.0 88.7
Minority interest 27 4.7 3.1 — —
Total equity 26 164.5 131.1 111.0 88.7
Signed PA Forman
 KM Higginson
Dated 19th February 2009 46 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30TH NOVEMBER 2008
    2008 2007
    £m £m
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations    (0.4) 5.3
Profit for the year from discontinued operations    60.8 8.1
Profit for the year    60.4 13.4
Adjustments for
Depreciation    13.6 9.8
Amortisation    7.0 3.3
Income tax expense     6.6 5.7
Net financing costs    10.8 3.7
Increase in inventories    (7.5) (0.6)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables    3.6 (7.5)
Increase in trade and other payables    3.1 4.0
Increase in provisions    8.3 —
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment    (0.7) —
Gain on disposal of discontinued operation    (55.9) —
Equity-settled share-based payment    1.4 1.2
Other    — 0.1
Cash inflow from operations    50.7 33.1
Interest received    2.6 1.7
Interest paid    (11.3) (4.5)
Tax paid    (5.0) (3.9)
Pension cash contributions in excess of operating charge    (12.1) (3.5)
Net cash inflow from operating activities    24.9 22.9
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired    (132.9) —
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment    (16.8) (15.1)
Intangible assets purchased    (1.4) (1.5)
Finance lease capital repayments    (0.3) (0.3)
Disposal of discontinued operations, net of cash disposed of    114.7 —
Disposal of property, plant and equipment    2.2 1.5
Net cash outflow from investing activities    (34.5) (15.4)
Proceeds of share issues    0.1 0.6
Inflow from new borrowings    68.2 4.4
External debt disposed with subsidiaries    1.8 —
Movement in cash flow hedges    (33.5) (3.6)
Equity dividends paid    (7.7) (7.0)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities    28.9 (5.6)
Net cash inflow    19.3 1.9
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year    5.8 3.3
Foreign exchange differences    2.4 0.6
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year    27.5 5.8 47 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30TH NOVEMBER 2008
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the year    53.2 (3.6)
Adjustments for
Depreciation    0.1 0.1
Income tax expense    — (1.6)
Net financing costs    0.3 0.6
(Increase)/decrease in other receivables    (141.7) 13.7
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables    19.1 (6.5)
Increase in provisions    6.0 —
Equity-settled share-based payment    1.4 1.2
Gain on disposal of discontinued operation    (54.0) —
Cash (outflow)/inflow from operations    (115.6) 3.9
Interest received     15.3 4.9
Interest paid    (14.5) (4.6)
Tax (paid)/recovered     2.7 (0.1)
Pension cash contributions in excess of operating charge    (11.0) (3.0)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities    (123.1) 1.1
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment    (0.1) (0.5)
Acquisition of subsidiaries    (0.6) —
Disposal of property, plant and equipment    — 0.1
Disposal of discontinued operations, net of cash disposed of    124.6 —
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities    123.9 (0.4)
Proceeds of share issues    0.1 0.6
Inflow from new borrowings    64.4 9.0
Movement in cash flow hedges    (33.5) (3.6)
Equity dividends paid    (7.7) (7.0)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities    23.3 (1.0)
Net cash inflow/(outflow)    24.1 (0.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year    0.6 0.8
Foreign exchange differences    (1.5) 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year    23.2 0.6 48 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30TH NOVEMBER 2008
    2008 2007
Group   Note £m £m
Foreign exchange translation differences    (4.0) (2.1)
Deferred tax on share-based payment    (0.2) (0.2)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension scheme   4 (15.7) 12.0
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension scheme   4 0.5 (3.5)
Net (expenses)/income recognised directly in equity    (19.4) 6.2
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations    (0.4) 5.3
Profit for the year from discontinued operations    60.8 8.1
Total recognised income for the year    41.0 19.6
Attributable to
Equity holders of the parent   26 39.8 19.3
Minority interest   27 1.2 0.3
    41.0 19.6
    2008 2007
Company   Note £m £m
Foreign exchange translation differences   25 (10.2) (0.1)
Deferred tax on share-based payment    (0.2) (0.2)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension scheme   4 (14.8) 11.6
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension scheme   4 — (3.5)
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity    (25.2) 7.8
Profit/(loss) for the year   8 53.2 (3.6)
Total recognised income for the year   26 28.0 4.2
Attributable to
Equity holders of the Company   26 28.0 4.2 49 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
General information
Low & Bonar PLC (the “Company”) is a company domiciled in Scotland and incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. The address of 
the registered office is Whitehall House, 33 Yeaman Shore, Dundee, DD1 4BJ. The management head office is 9th Floor, Marble Arch Tower, 55 Bryanston Street, 
London, W1H 7AA.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30th November 2008 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to 
as the “Group”).
(A) Basis of preparation
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand pounds. They are prepared on the historical cost basis 
except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments. UK company law requires Directors to consider whether it is appropriate to prepare the 
financial statements on the basis that the Company and the Group are going concerns. 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Group Chief 
Executive’s Business Review on pages 10 to 15, and the financial position of the Group and its cash flows and borrowing requirements are described in the 
Group Finance Director’s Review on pages 16 to 19. The Group Finance Director’s Review and note 19 to the financial statements include the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital, financial risks and hedging activities together with its exposure to credit and liquidity risks.
The current global economic conditions create uncertainty particularly over the level of demand for the Group’s products and the price of its raw materials.
The Directors have reviewed the Group’s medium-term forecasts along with reasonable possible changes in trading performance arising from these 
uncertainties, both with and without the proceeds of the proposed Placing and Open Offer, to determine whether the committed banking facilities are sufficient 
to support the Group’s projected liquidity requirements, and whether the forecast earnings are sufficient to meet the covenants associated with the banking 
facilities.
The Group’s committed banking facilities are due for renewal in December 2011 and no matters have been brought to the attention of the Directors to suggest 
that renewal may not be forthcoming.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future, and have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Both the Parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU (adopted IFRS). At the date of authorisation of these financial statements there are a number of Standards and 
Interpretations in issue but not yet effective and have therefore not yet been applied in these financial statements (note Y). 
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in 
section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes which form a part of these approved financial statements. 
The IFRSs adopted by the EU applied by the Group in the preparation of these financial statements are those that were effective at 30th November 2008. The 
Group has adopted the following new IFRS and amendment to IAS which became effective during the year
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures
These introduce new disclosures for financial instruments in the notes to the financial statements but do not have any impact on the consolidated income 
statement or balance sheet. We have restated comparative figures to reflect the new disclosure requirements.
IFRIC 11 Group and treasury share transactions
This requires the share-based payment charge to be allocated to the subsidiary companies whose employees benefit from share schemes. This has minimal 
impact on the Company and Group financial statements.
(B) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the 
date that control commences until the date that control ceases. In the Parent Company investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less impairment.
The interest of minority shareholders is initially stated at the minority’s share of the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities recognised on the date of 
acquisition. 
(ii) Associates
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. The consolidated financial 
statements include the Group’s share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence 
commences until the date that significant influence ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Group’s carrying amount 
is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made 
payments on behalf of an associate.
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-Group balances and transactions and any unrealised gains arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated in preparing consolidated financial 
statements. 
(iv) Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s businesses that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations that has 
been disposed of or is held for sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal 
or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, if earlier. When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative 
income statement is represented as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative period. 50 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
CONTINUED
(C) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into pounds sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences 
arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value 
are translated into pounds sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the date the fair values were determined. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction. 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at foreign exchange rates 
ruling at the balance sheet date. The income statements of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the period where this rate approximates to the 
foreign exchange rates ruling at the date of the transactions. Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations, and of related qualifying 
hedges are taken directly to the translation reserve within equity. They are released to the income statement upon disposal. 
The Group has taken advantage of the relief available in IFRS 1 to deem the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be zero at the date of 
transition to IFRS, 1st December 2004.
(ii) Hedging of risks
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward exchange contracts (see accounting policies D and E).
(D) Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risks arising from operational and investment activities. The Group 
does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. Derivative financial instruments are subsequently remeasured to their fair value with the 
resultant gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss 
depends on the nature of the item being hedged (see accounting policy E).
(E) Hedging
(i) Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, a firm commitment or a highly 
probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised as a separate component of equity. When 
the firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity 
and included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. Otherwise the cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income 
statement at the same time as the hedged transaction. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately. 
When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point 
remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take 
place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately.
(ii) Hedge of net investment in foreign operation
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges are taken to the translation reserve. They are 
released to the income statement upon disposal.
In respect of all foreign operations, any differences that have arisen since 1st December 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS, are presented as a separate 
component of equity in the Group financial statements.
The Group tests effectiveness on a prospective and retrospective basis to ensure compliance with IAS 39. Methods for testing effectiveness include currency 
offset and critical terms. 
(F) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment (see accounting policy K). The cost of self- 
constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of plant, 
property and equipment.
(ii) Leased assets
Leases whereby the Company or the Group assume substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Plant and equipment 
acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception 
of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy K). Lease payments are accounted for as described in 
accounting policy R. Where land and buildings are held under lease the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of buildings.
(iii) Subsequent expenditure
The Company and the Group recognise in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that 
cost is incurred, if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company or the Group and the cost of the item can 
be measured reliably. Subsequent costs are capitalised if it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the entity (and the cost can be reliably 
measured).
  51 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
(iv) Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment, and major 
components that are accounted for separately. Land is not depreciated. The estimated useful lives for significant classes of assets are as follows
— property 10–50 years
— plant and equipment  3–15 years
For other assets, the useful economic lives are
— fixtures and fittings 3–7 years
— computer hardware 2–5 years
— tooling 1–5 years
— motor vehicles 3–5 years
(G) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries. In respect of acquisitions that have occurred since 1st December 2004, goodwill represents 
the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets (including intangible assets and contingent liabilities) acquired.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1st December 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK 
GAAP which was broadly comparable save that separable intangibles were not recognised and goodwill was amortised. The classification and accounting 
treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1st December 2004 were not reconsidered in preparing the Group’s opening IFRS balance sheet at 1st 
December 2004. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit 
or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is stated at deemed cost less any accumulated impairment losses (see accounting policy K). 
(ii) Research and development
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the 
income statement as an expense is incurred. 
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products 
and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development. 
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Other development expenditure is 
recognised in the income statement as an expense is incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses (see accounting policy K).
(iii) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses (see accounting policy K). 
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense is incurred.
(iv) Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite. 
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life are not amortised but are systematically tested for impairment annually and further tested at each balance 
sheet date if there is any evidence of potential impairment. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date that they are available for use. The estimated 
useful lives of the identified intangible assets are as follows
— technology based 5–10 years
— customer relationships 4–11 years
— marketing related 10 years
— order backlog 3 months
— non-compete agreements 4–5 years
— software 3–5 years
(H) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and thereafter stated at their amortised cost less impairment losses (see accounting policy K).
(I) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the 
estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the first in, first out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their 
existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal 
operating capacity.
(J) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Company’s 
or the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. 52 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
CONTINUED
(K) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Company’s and the Group’s assets, other than inventories (accounting policy I), and deferred tax assets (accounting policy T) are 
reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is 
estimated. For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at 
each balance sheet date. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash-generating 
units (group of units) and then, to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro rata basis. Impairment losses are recognised in 
the income statement.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversible. Other impairment losses are reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not 
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives were tested for impairment at 1st December 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, even though no 
indication of impairment existed.
(i) Calculation of recoverable amount
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assumptions of the time value of money and the risks specific 
to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which 
the asset belongs.
(L) Share capital
(i) Preference share capital
Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to the extent that they meet the following two 
conditions
(a) They include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with 
another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
(b) Where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a 
variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other 
financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form 
of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in 
relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of financial expenses. Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are 
classified in equity are dividends, and are recorded directly in equity.
(ii) Dividends
Dividends on redeemable preference shares are recognised as a liability on an accrual basis. Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a liability in the 
period in which they are declared. Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared.
(M) Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing 
borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the 
borrowings on an effective interest basis.
(N) Employee benefits
The Company and the Group operate defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution pension plans. The Company also offers share based compensation 
benefits to certain employees.
(i) Defined contribution plans
A defined contribution pension plan is one under which fixed contributions are paid to a third party. The Company and the Group have no further payment 
obligations once these contributions have been paid. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the 
income statement as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit plans
A defined benefit pension plan is one that specifies the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement. The Company and the Group’s 
net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefits that employees 
have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine the present value, and the fair value of any plan 
assets is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the 
Company’s or the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Company or the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised actuarial losses and 
past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
If the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested from the date of improvement. To the extent that the benefits vest 
immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense. 53 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
(iii) Equity and equity-related compensation benefits
The Company and Group have applied the requirements of IFRS 2. In accordance with the exemption available within the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, IFRS 2 
has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7th November 2002 that were unvested as of 1st January 2005. 
The Company operates various equity-settled and cash-settled share option schemes. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date 
of the grant, and the fair value determined at the grant date of these payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s 
estimate of shares that will eventually vest. The fair value of cash settled payments are re-measured at each balance sheet date and the cost of these payments is 
recognised over the vesting period, taking into account the remeasurement of fair value at each balance sheet date.
The Low & Bonar 1995 Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (the “ESOP”) purchases shares in the Company in order to satisfy awards made under the 
Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan. Shares held by the ESOP are treated as Treasury Shares and a deduction is computed in the Company’s issued share 
capital for the purposes of calculating earnings per share.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black–Scholes model or a Stochastic model as appropriate.
(O) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Company or the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is 
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation. Provisions for 
restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected parties. 
(P) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and thereafter stated at their amortised cost. They are not interest-bearing.
(Q) Revenue
Goods sold and services rendered
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the 
normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes. Sales of goods are recognised when the Group has transferred the significant 
risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the buyer (which is predominantly on dispatch as most items are sold on a CIF basis), the amount of revenue can 
be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits of the transaction will flow to the Group. 
(R) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives are 
recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
(ii) Finance lease payments
Payments made under finance leases are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability.
(iii) Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, dividends on redeemable preference shares, 
return on scheme assets and interest costs on scheme liabilities in respect of defined benefit pension schemes, interest receivable on funds invested, dividend 
income, foreign exchange gains and losses, and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement (see accounting policy E). 
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset. 
(S) Non-recurring items
Items which are both material and non-recurring are presented within their relevant consolidated income statement category. The separate reporting of non-
recurring items helps provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. 
(T) Taxation
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any 
adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of 
assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, goodwill in respect of acquisitions prior to 1st December 2004, and differences relating to 
investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner 
of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
(U) Segment reporting
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged either in providing products or services (business segment), or in providing products or 
services within a particular economic environment (geographical segment). The Group identifies business segments as its primary segments. During the year, 
the business segments were identified as Floors and Technical Textiles. Following its disposal on 30th September 2008, the Floors segment has been disclosed as 
a discontinued operation.
(V) Borrowings
Borrowings are carried at their issue proceeds net of finance costs, less amounts repaid. Finance costs are allocated over the term of the borrowings. 54 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
CONTINUED
(W) Significant judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application 
of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience 
and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about 
carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the 
estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. 
A number of accounting estimates and judgements are incorporated within the provision for post-employment obligations and are discussed in note 4. In relation 
to the Group’s property, plant and equipment (note 13), useful economic lives and residual values of assets have been established using historical experience 
and an assessment of the nature of the assets involved. Impairment tests have been undertaken with respect to intangible assets (note 12) using commercial 
judgement and a number of assumptions and estimates have been made to support their carrying amounts. Detailed analysis of the Group’s foreign exchange 
exposure and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements is provided in note 19. A number of accounting estimates and judgements are incorporated 
within the impairment provisions for trade receivables which are described in more detail in note 17. A number of accounting estimates and judgements are 
incorporated within the provisions for share-based payments. These are described in more detail in note 23.
(X) Financial guarantee contracts
With respect to the financial guarantee contracts, where the Group enters into such contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the 
Group, the Group considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Group treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability unless it becomes probable that the Group will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
(Y) Adopted IFRSs not yet applied
The following interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations committee (“IFRIC”), effective for accounting periods commencing on or 
after 1st January 2007, have had no impact on these financial statements
IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share based Payment
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Information and Impairment
The following adopted IFRSs were available for early application but have not been applied by the Group in these financial statements. 
Endorsed
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements 
IFRS 8 Operating segments: applicable for the year commencing 1st December 2009 — introduces the “management approach” to segment reporting
IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes — applies to all entities that issue award credits as part of a sales transaction, including awards that can be redeemed for 
goods or services supplied by other parties
Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment — Vesting conditions and cancellations
Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs — removes the option to expense borrowing costs. We will capitalise borrowing costs on qualifying projects which 
commence on or after 1st January 2009. 
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements — this will impact presentation only
Unendorsed 
IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements: applicable for the year commencing 1st December 2008
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation
IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners
IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers 
Amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements — Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations 
Arising on Liquidation
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items
Amendments to IAS 39 Reclassification of Financial Assets: Effective Date and Transition
These amendments and new standards are not expected to impact the Group significantly. However, additional disclosures will be required. 
IFRS 3 (revised) Business combinations: is effective for the year ending 30th November 2010 although it has not yet been endorsed by the EU. The Group incurs 
direct costs as part of the acquisition process. Currently, such direct costs are included as a cost of acquisition. On adoption of IFRS 3 (revised) such costs will be 
expensed in the income statement. This is considered to be a significant change to the accounting treatment currently adopted by the Group. The impact on the 
consolidated financial statements will depend on the number, size and complexity of acquisitions completed in the relevant period.
IFRIC 14 The limits on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction: is effective for the year ending 30th November 2009 — the 
Group is currently investigating the potential impact of IFRIC 14 and will quantify any impact on the consolidated financial statements following the finalisation of 
the triennial valuation as at 31st March 2008 by the actuary. 55 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
1. Segmental information
Primary Reporting Format — Business 
For management purposes, the Group was organised into two operating divisions — Floors and Technical Textiles. Following the disposal of the Floors 
Division, one segment, Technical Textiles is reported. The Floors Division has been shown as a discontinued operation. Segment assets and liabilities 
include items directly attributable to segments as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
Unallocated items comprise mainly cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing loans, borrowings, post-employment benefits, taxation balances and 
corporate assets and expenses. Intra-segment sales are not material.
Following the disposal of the Floors Division, the Group’s principal activities are in the international manufacturing and supply of those performance 
materials commonly referred to as technical textiles. The global technical textiles industry comprises, inter alia, fibres, yarns, woven fabrics and non-
woven fabrics serving diverse markets such as hygiene, automotive, construction, industrial and healthcare. Following the disposal of the Floors Division, 
the Group has focused its business into two areas of activity in the international technical textiles industry: the production and supply of (a) technical 
coated fabrics for use in the transport, print and architectural markets, and (b) performance technical textiles.
The Floors Division supplied floor coverings to the contract flooring market.
Secondary Reporting Format — Geography
The Group identifies three distinct geographical markets: Europe, North America and Asia.
Primary segment — Business
 2008
   Technical  Unallocated
   Textiles Central Total
   £m £m £m
Revenue — Continuing operations   335.2 — 335.2
Operating profit before amortisation and non-recurring items   32.1 (5.4) 26.7
Amortisation    (6.2) — (6.2)
Operating profit before non-recurring items   25.9 (5.4) 20.5
Non-recurring items   (1.4) — (1.4)
Operating profit   24.5 (5.4) 19.1
Non-operating expenses — non-recurring items     (6.2)
Net financing costs     (10.7)
Profit before taxation     2.2
Taxation     (2.6)
Loss for the year from continuing operations     (0.4)
Profit for the year from discontinued operations (note 29)     60.8
     60.4
Capital expenditure — Continuing operations   12.9 0.1 13.0
Capital expenditure — Discontinued operations     5.2
Capital expenditure — Total     18.2
Depreciation — Continuing operations   11.7 0.1 11.8
Depreciation — Discontinued operations     1.8
Depreciation — Total     13.6
Segment assets   409.7  409.7
Segment liabilities   (66.5)  (66.5)
Segment net assets — Continuing operations   343.2  343.2
Unallocated assets and liabilities     (74.2)
Cash and cash equivalents     27.5
Interest-bearing borrowings     (132.0)
Group net assets     164.5 56 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
1. Segmental information continued
Secondary segment — Geography
 2008
  North Rest of
 Europe America World Unallocated Total
 £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue — Continuing operations 276.5 51.0 7.7 — 335.2
Operating profit before non-recurring items 23.6 2.7 0.2 (6.0) 20.5
Non-recurring items     (1.4)
Operating profit     19.1
Non-operating expenses — non-recurring items     (6.2)
Net financing costs     (10.7)
Profit before taxation     2.2
Taxation     (2.6)
Loss for the year from continuing operations     (0.4)
Profit for the year from discontinued 
operations (note 29)     60.8
     60.4
Capital expenditure — Continuing operations 10.2 2.2 0.6  13.0
Capital expenditure — Discontinued operations 5.2 — —  5.2
Capital expenditure — Total 15.4 2.2 0.6  18.2
Segment assets 363.8 35.7 10.2  409.7
Segment liabilities (60.4) (5.5) (0.6)  (66.5)
Segment net assets — Continuing operations 303.4 30.2 9.6  343.2
Unallocated assets and liabilities     (74.2)
Cash and cash equivalents     27.5
Interest-bearing borrowings     (132.0)
Group net assets     164.5
Primary segment — Business
 2007 Restated
 
   Technical  Unallocated
   Textiles Central Total
   £m £m £m
Revenue — Continuing operations   210.3 — 210.3
Operating profit before amortisation and non-recurring items   17.9 (3.8) 14.1
Amortisation    (3.0) — (3.0)
Operating profit before non-recurring items   14.9 (3.8) 11.1
Non-recurring items   — — —
Operating profit   14.9 (3.8) 11.1
Net financing costs   — (3.7) (3.7)
Profit before taxation   14.9 (7.5) 7.4
Taxation     (2.1)
Profit for the year from continuing operations     5.3
Profit for the year from discontinued operations     8.1
     13.4
Capital expenditure — Continuing operations   11.1 0.5 11.6
Capital expenditure — Discontinued operations     5.0
Capital expenditure — Total     16.6
Depreciation — Continuing operations   7.9  7.9
Depreciation — Discontinued operations     1.9
Depreciation — Total     9.8 57 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
1. Segmental information continued
Primary segment — Business
 2007 Restated
 
   Technical  Unallocated
   Textiles Central Total
   £m £m £m
Segment assets    209.2  209.2
Segment liabilities    (42.0)  (42.0)
Segment net assets — Continuing operations   167.2  167.2
Segment assets — Discontinued operations     68.0
Segment liabilities — Discontinued operations     (24.5)
Unallocated assets and liabilities     (29.1)
Cash and cash equivalents     5.8
Interest-bearing borrowings     (56.3)
Group net assets     131.1
Secondary segment — Geography
 2007
  North Rest of
 Europe America World Unallocated Total
 £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue — Continuing operations 165.2 37.5 7.6 — 210.3
Operating profit before non-recurring items 12.6 1.6 0.7 (3.8) 11.1
Non-recurring items     —
Operating profit     11.1
Net financing costs     (3.7)
Profit before taxation     7.4
Taxation     (2.1)
Profit for the year from continuing operations     5.3
Profit for the year from discontinued operations     8.1
     13.4
Capital expenditure — Continuing operations 8.7 1.3 1.1 0.5 11.6
Capital expenditure — Discontinued operations 5.0 — — — 5.0
Capital expenditure — Total 13.7 1.3 1.1 0.5 16.6
Segment assets 180.8 21.6 6.8  209.2
Segment l iabilities (38.0) (3.6) (0.4)  (42.0)
Segment net assets — Continuing operations 142.8 18.0 6.4  167.2
Unallocated assets and liabilities     (29.1)
Segment assets — Discontinued operations     68.0
Segment liabilities — Discontinued operations     (24.5)
Cash and cash equivalents     5.8
Interest-bearing borrowings     (56.3)
Group net assets     131.1 58 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
2. Profit before taxation
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging/(crediting)
 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total operating costs 316.1 87.0 403.1 199.2 89.8 289.0
Total operating costs 
above include:
Staff costs 68.2 12.5 80.7 44.4 22.2 66.6
Inventories
 Cost of inventories 
 recognised as an expense 244.1 54.6 298.7 159.7 56.2 215.9
 Write-down of inventories 
 recognised as an expense 0.6 0.2 0.8 0.7 0.2 0.9
 Release of provisions held 
 against inventories (0.5) — (0.5) — — —
Depreciation of property, plant 
and equipment 11.8 1.8 13.6 7.9 1.9 9.8
Amortisation of intangibles 6.2 0.8 7.0 3.0 0.3 3.3
(Profit)/loss on disposal of 
property, plant and equipment (1.0) 0.3 (0.7) (0.2) — (0.2)
Loss on disposal of intangible 
assets — — — 0.1 — 0.1
Amounts payable under 
operating leases
 Property 1.2 0.3 1.5 1.1 0.4 1.5
  Plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.6 0.8 1.4
Research and development 
expenditure recognised 
as an expense 2.4 0.5 2.9 1.5 0.9 2.4
Auditor’s remuneration
During the year the Group obtained the following services from its Auditor at costs detailed below
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Audit of these financial statements    0.2 0.1
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries    0.3 0.3
Non-audit services
Corporate tax compliance    0.2 0.1
Corporate tax consultancy    0.1 0.1
Other    0.1 —
In addition to these fees, £0.5m of fees (2007: £nil) were not included in the income statement as they were capitalised as part of the acquisition costs of 
Westbond and MTX. An additional £0.3m was included in the Floors Division disposal costs within profit for the year from discontinued operations. The 
total amount paid to the Auditor was £1.7m (2007: £0.6m). 59 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
3. Staff numbers and costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year including Executive Directors was
     Restated
    Group Group
    2008 2007
Production    1,738 1,206
Sales    218 88
Administrative    252 210
    2,208 1,504
The average number of Floors employees in 2007 was 677. The average number of persons employed by the Company during the year was 27 (2007: 23).
The aggregate staff costs were
 Group  Group Group Group  Group Group
 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Wages and salaries 54.3 8.5  62.8 35.4 18.0 53.4
Social security costs 10.9 3.2 14.1 6.9 3.3 10.2
Pension costs 3.0 0.8 3.8 2.1 0.9 3.0
 68.2 12.5 80.7 44.4 22.2 66.6
    Company Company
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Wages and salaries    2.1 2.4
Social security costs    0.4 0.2
Pension costs    0.2 0.2
    2.7 2.8
The Directors of the Company are listed in the Report of the Directors on pages 20 and 21. 
4. Post-employment benefits
The Group operates a number of pension schemes in the UK and overseas. These are either defined benefit or defined contribution in nature. The assets of 
all the schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
a) Defined contribution schemes
Various defined contribution pension schemes exist around the Group. These are accounted for on a contribution payable basis. The total cost charged to 
income in respect of defined contribution pension schemes was £2.0m (2007: £0.6m).
b) Description of defined benefit plans
i) United Kingdom
The UK defined benefit scheme (the “Scheme”) was independently valued by a qualified actuary at 31st March 2005. The main assumption in carrying 
out the valuation was for investment returns to exceed earnings increases by 1.5%. At 31st March 2005 the total market value of assets in the UK scheme 
was £114.0m. The overall level of funding was 77%. The net income statement charge for the year for the UK pension scheme, after the curtailment gain of 
£0.6m (2007: £nil), was £0.1m (2007: £0.9m). A valuation as at 31st March 2008 is currently being finalised by the actuary. The UK defined benefit scheme is 
held by the Company and all of the UK disclosures relate to the Company and the Group.
The Company agreed with the Trustees of the UK defined benefit scheme a schedule of contributions to fund a deficit under the Minimum Funding 
Requirement. Under this agreement the Company has made payments of £3.0m during the year (2007: £3.0m). Following the disposal of the Floors 
Division, the Company paid £8.0m from the disposal proceeds to the purchaser, Forbo AG, to allow it to make an equivalent payment into the UK scheme 
through Bonar Floors Limited, in satisfaction of a statutory obligation to pay accelerated funding to the Scheme upon leaving the Group. The Company has 
agreed to pay further contributions of £3.0m per year in the year ending 30th November 2009. Note 5 provides details of a provision held in respect of the 
equalisation of the retirement age.
ii) Non-UK
A defined benefit scheme exists in Belgium. The assets, which are held separately from those of the Group, total £2.2m at 30th November 2008 (2007: 
£1.5m) and the latest actuarial update shows the scheme to be fully funded. Further defined benefit schemes are also found in Germany and the United 
States relating to the Colbond business and the MTX business acquired during 2008. Further disclosure on these schemes is detailed below. Defined 
benefit schemes also exist in our two Dutch businesses. They are both members of an industry-wide scheme and it is not possible to separately identify 
assets and liabilities and both these schemes are accounted for on a contribution payable basis. The Group will share in the actuarial gains and losses of 
the industry-wide schemes. The French scheme was disposed of as part of the disposal of the Floors Division. 60 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
4. Post-employment benefits continued
c) Financial assumptions
The financial assumptions used to estimate defined benefit obligations are
 UK schemes Non-UK schemes
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  % % % %
Discount rate  6.70 5.90 6.25–6.50 5.25–5.75
Expected return on scheme assets  5.70 5.68 5.05–7.65 5.10–7.60
Future salary increases  3.90 4.70 2.50–3.50 2.00–3.50
Future pension increases  3.00 3.20 2.00–3.50 1.50–2.00
Inflation increase  2.40 3.20 2.00–2.25 1.50–2.00
In assessing the Group’s post-employment liabilities the Group monitors mortality assumptions and uses up-to-date mortality tables. Allowance is made 
for expected future increases in life expectancy. The figures assume that a male member, currently aged 65, will survive a further 20 years and a female 
member for a further 23 years. Management considers that the assumptions used are appropriate approximations to the life expectancy of Scheme 
members in the light of scheme specific experience and more widely available statistics. 
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the level of expected returns on risk-free investments 
(primarily government bonds), the historical level of risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the 
expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to 
develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio and an allowance made for expected expenses. 
d) Financial impact of plans
The total amount recognised for defined benefit schemes is as follows
 UK schemes Non-UK schemes Total
 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 121.0 142.3 5.7 5.5 126.7 147.8
Present value of defined 
benefit obligations (125.4) (143.3) (13.2) (8.6) (138.6) (151.9)
Lump sum payable for 
French scheme* — — — (0.7) — (0.7)
Net liability recognised in 
the balance sheet (4.4) (1.0) (7.5) (3.8) (11.9) (4.8)
* The French scheme was included within the disposal of the Floors Division.
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes are as follows
 UK schemes Non-UK schemes Total
 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost 0.5 0.7 0.2 0.1 0.7 0.8
Interest cost 8.2 7.6 0.6 0.4 8.8 8.0
Expected return on 
scheme assets (8.0) (7.4) (0.4) (0.3) (8.4) (7.7)
Curtailment gain (0.6) — — — (0.6) —
 0.1 0.9 0.4 0.2 0.5 1.1
The curtailment gain arose on the disposal of the Floors Division and is included in the result from discontinued operations in the income statement.
Amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense (“SORIE”) are as follows
 Group Company
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £m £m £m £m
Actuarial (loss)/gain  (15.7) 12.0 (14.8) 11.6
Associated deferred tax  0.5 (3.5) — (3.5)
The cumulative (loss)/gain recognised in the Group SORIE is £(2.8)m (2007: £12.9m). The Company has not recorded a deferred tax asset against the 
SORIE movement as it is not probable that a tax benefit will be realised in the future. 61 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
4. Post-employment benefits continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows
 UK schemes Non-UK schemes Total
 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Opening defined benefit 
obligation 143.3 156.5 8.6 9.0 151.9 165.5
Arising on acquisition — — 2.7 — 2.7 —
Current service cost 0.6 0.7 0.2 0.1 0.8 0.8
Interest cost 8.2 7.6 0.6 0.4 8.8 8.0
Plan participants’ contributions 0.2 0.2 — — 0.2 0.2
Actuarial gain (18.5) (14.3) (0.8) (0.3) (19.3) (14.6)
Curtailment gain (0.6) — — — (0.6) —
Benefits paid (7.8) (7.4) (0.8) (0.5) (8.6) (7.9)
Exchange differences — — 2.7 (0.1) 2.7 (0.1)
Closing defined benefit 
obligation 125.4 143.3 13.2 8.6 138.6 151.9
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows
 UK schemes Non-UK schemes Total
 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Opening fair value of 
scheme assets 142.3 141.1 5.5 5.2 147.8 146.3
Arising on acquisition — — 0.1 — 0.1 —
Expected return 8.1 7.4 0.4 0.3 8.5 7.7
Actuarial (loss)/gain (33.3) (2.7) (1.7) 0.1 (35.0) (2.6)
Contributions by employer 11.5 3.7 0.7 0.6 12.2 4.3
Plan participants’ contributions 0.2 0.2 — — 0.2 0.2
Benefits paid (7.8) (7.4) (0.8) (0.5) (8.6) (7.9)
Exchange differences — — 1.5 (0.2) 1.5 (0.2)
Closing fair value of 
scheme assets 121.0 142.3 5.7 5.5 126.7 147.8
The fair value of the UK scheme assets at the balance sheet date is analysed as follows
   2008 2008 2007 2007
  £m % £m %
Equity securities  29.0 24 44.1 31
Debt securities  73.8 61 85.4 60
Property  9.7 8 12.8 9
Cash and other  8.5 7 — —
  121.0 100 142.3 100
The fair value of the non-UK scheme assets at the balance sheet date is analysed as follows
   2008 2008 2007 2007
  £m % £m %
Equity securities  2.3 40 3.1 56
Debt securities  2.6 45 2.1 38
Cash and other  0.8 15 0.3 6
  5.7 100 5.5 100 62 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
4. Post-employment benefits continued
History of experience gains and losses — UK Schemes
  2008 2007 2006 2005
  £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets   121.0 142.3 141.1 128.0
Present value of defined benefit obligation   (125.4) (143.3) (156.5) (156.5)
Deficit in the scheme  (4.4) (1.0) (15.4) (28.5)
Experience adjustments to scheme assets
Amount £m  (33.3) (2.7) 5.1 13.4
Percentage of present value of scheme assets  (27%) (2%) 4% 10%
Experience adjustments to scheme liabilities
Amount £m  (2.5) 0.8 2.3 4.7
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities  (2%) 1% 1% 3%
History of experience gains and losses — Non-UK Schemes
  2008 2007 2006 2005
  £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets   5.7 5.5 5.2 —
Present value of defined benefit obligation   (13.2) (8.6) (9.0) —
Deficit in the scheme  (7.5) (3.1) (3.8) —
Lump sum payable in French scheme  — (0.7) (0.6) (0.4)
  (7.5) (3.8) (4.4) (0.4)
Experience adjustments to scheme assets
Amount £m  (1.8) 0.1 (0.2) —
Percentage of present value of scheme assets  (31%) 2% (4%) —
Experience adjustments to scheme liabilities
Amount £m  (0.2) (0.2) — —
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities  (2%) (2%) — —
US post-retirement medical plans
  2008 2007
Assumed healthcare trend rate
 Immediate  8.0%   9.0%
 Ultimate   5.0%  5.0%
The effect of an increase of one percentage point and the effect of a decrease of one percentage point in the assumed medical trend rate for our US post-
retirement medical schemes is shown by the table below
Sensitivity to trend rate assumptions  +1% -1% +1% -1%
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Effect on total service cost and interest cost components  5 (4) 7 (6)
Effect on defined benefit obligation  48 (42) 59 (51) 63 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
5. Non-recurring items
During the year the Group incurred significant one-off items as detailed below
     2008 2007
    £m £m
Amounts charged/(credited) to operating profit
Post acquisition integration and restructuring of MTX (note 21)    2.3 —
Profit on disposal of land     (0.9) —
    1.4 —
Amounts charged to non-operating expenses
Pensions equalisation costs    6.2 —
During the year, surplus land was disposed at Colbond Inc generating a profit on disposal of £0.9m. This has been included within non-trading income in 
the income statement.
The Group has made provision for £2.3m of one-off integration and restructuring costs at MTX following its acquisition in January 2008. These costs have 
been charged to operating profit as a non-recurring item, and are expected to be paid during 2009.
The Company and the trustee of the Company’s main UK defined benefit pension scheme (the “Scheme”) have continued to take professional advice on 
the implementation of the measures necessary to reflect the impact of the changes in normal retirement age for members of pension schemes following the 
Barber decision on 17th May 1990 by the European Court of Justice and the Scheme’s consequent decision in 1991 to equalise retirement ages for men and 
women at 65 years. Although further advice is currently being sought, the Company and the trustee believe that it is likely that additional funding will be 
required in respect of at least one of the Scheme’s component sections. 
Actuaries have been instructed by the Company to consider these matters. Preliminary results have been obtained which show there is a potential 
additional funding deficit arising from the implementation of the measures referred to in the paragraph above and a charge of £6.2m has been incurred 
resulting in a year end provision of £6.0m to cover this and certain associated professional costs. 
When the estimate of the additional funding liability is confirmed, this will form part of the IAS 19 pension liability. The Company is required to agree a 
revised schedule of contributions to be made to the Scheme with the Trustee as part of the ongoing triennial valuation of the Scheme by no later than 
30th June 2009 which will take the Scheme’s overall funding deficit into account. A legal claim against certain professional advisers in respect of any 
liability arising is likely to be made but no recoveries have been assumed for the purpose of calculating the provision required.
There remains uncertainty as to whether certain other sections of the Schemes were appropriately equalised at the time of their merger into the UK 
scheme. The Company and the trustee continue to take advice on these matters and consequently no quantification of any additional funding that may be 
required in respect of these sections is possible at the date of approval of these financial statements.
6. Financial income and financial expenses
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Financial income
Interest income     2.2 1.7
Expected return on pension plan assets    8.4 7.7
    10.6 9.4
Financial expenses
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans    (11.7) (5.0)
Amortisation and write-down of bank arrangement fees    (0.7) (0.1)
Interest on finance leases    (0.1) —
Interest on pension scheme liabilities    (8.8) (8.0)
    (21.3) (13.1) 64 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
7. Taxation 
Recognised in the income statement
     Restated
    2008 2007
Current tax    £m £m
UK corporation tax
— current year    (1.2) (2.3)
Overseas tax
— current year    4.1 3.7
— prior year    0.3 0.2
    4.4 3.9
Total current tax    3.2 1.6
Deferred tax    (0.6) 0.5
Total tax charge in the income statement from continuing operations   2.6 2.1
Tax from discontinued operations (note 29)    4.0 3.6
Tax on disposal of discontinued operations (note 29)    — —
Total tax charge in the income statement    6.6 5.7
The amount of deferred tax income relating to changes in tax rates is £nil (2007: £0.2m).
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
The differences between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 28.67% (2007: 
30%) to the profit before tax are as follows
     Restated
    2008 2007
    £m  £m
Profit before tax from continuing operations    2.2 7.4
Profit before tax from discontinued operations    64.8 11.7
Profit before tax    67.0 19.1
Tax charge at 28.67% (2007: 30%)    19.2 5.7
Expenses not deductible and income not taxable    (16.6) 0.4
Higher/(lower) tax rates on overseas earnings    0.3 (0.1)
Current tax losses not utilised    0.7 0.4
Other short-term timing differences    1.1 (0.9)
Prior period adjustments    1.9 0.2
Total tax charge for the year    6.6 5.7
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity
    2008  2007
    £m £m
Actuarial gains and losses relating to retirement benefits obligations    (0.5) 3.5
Relating to share based payments    0.2 0.2
Total    (0.3) 3.7
8. Profits of the Parent Company
The Company has not presented its own income statement as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. The profit after tax was £53.2m (2007: 
loss £3.6m) reflecting the profit on disposal of the Floors Division. 65 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
9. Dividends 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Final dividend for the year ended
30th November 2007 — 3.10p per share (2007: 2.80p per share)    4.7 4.3
Interim dividend for the year ended
30th November 2008 — 1.925p per share (2007: 1.75p per share)    3.0 2.7
    7.7 7.0
In light of the Placing and Open Offer (see Note 32), a final dividend will not be recommended for the year ended 30th November 2008. It is the Board’s 
intention, subject to the Group’s trading position and prevailing economic circumstances, to resume dividend payments for the year ending 
30th November 2009.
10. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding excluding those held by the ESOP which are treated as cancelled for the purpose of this calculation.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary 
shares. The Group has two classes of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less 
than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year and those long-term incentive plan awards for which the performance 
criteria have been satisfied.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below
 2008 2007
  Weighted    Weighted
  average    average
  number  Per share  number Per share
 Earnings of shares amount Earnings of shares amount
 £m (millions)  p  £m (millions) p
Statutory — continuing 
operations
 Basic (loss)/earnings 
 per share
 Earnings attributable to 
 ordinary shareholders (0.3) 153.740 (0.20) 5.0 152.933 3.27
 Effect of dilutive items
 Share-based payment — 3.807  — 2.557
Diluted (loss)/earnings 
per share  (0.3) 157.547 (0.20) 5.0 155.490 3.22
Statutory — discontinued 
operations
 Basic earnings per share
 Earnings attributable to 
 ordinary shareholders 60.8 153.740 39.65 8.1 152.933 5.33
 Effect of dilutive items
 Share-based payment — 3.807  — 2.557
Diluted earnings per share  60.8 157.547 38.70 8.1 155.490 5.24
Statutory — total
 Basic earnings per share
 Earnings attributable to 
 ordinary shareholders 60.5 153.740 39.45 13.1 152.933 8.60
 Effect of dilutive items
 Share-based payment — 3.807  — 2.557
Diluted earnings per share  60.5 157.547 38.50 13.1 155.490 8.46 66 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
10. Earnings per share continued
 2008 2007
  Weighted    Weighted
  average    average
  number  Per share  number Per share
 Earnings of shares amount Earnings of shares amount
 £m (millions)  p  £m (millions) p
Before amortisation and 
non-recurring items — 
continuing operations
 Basic earnings per share
 Earnings attributable to 
 ordinary shareholders 11.4 153.740 7.37 7.1 152.933 4.62
 Effect of dilutive items
 Share-based payment — 3.807  — 2.557
Diluted earnings per share 11.4 157.547 7.19 7.1 155.490 4.54
Before amortisation and 
non-recurring items — 
discontinued operations
 Basic earnings per share
 Earnings attributable to 
 ordinary shareholders 6.3 153.740 4.10 8.4 152.933 5.54
 Effect of dilutive items
 Share-based payment — 3.807  — 2.557
Diluted earnings per share 6.3 157.547 4.00 8.4 155.490 5.45
Before amortisation and 
non-recurring items — total
 Basic earnings per share
 Earnings attributable to 
 ordinary shareholders 17.7 153.740 11.47 15.5 152.933 10.16
 Effect of dilutive items
 Share-based payment — 3.807  — 2.557
Diluted earnings per share 17.7 157.547 11.19 15.5 155.490 9.99 67 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
11. Goodwill
 Group
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Cost and net book value
At 1st December     48.0 46.6
Exchange adjustment    8.6 1.7
Adjustments in respect of deferred 
contingent consideration     3.4 (0.3)
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 28)     39.7 —
Disposal of subsidiaries (note 29)    (17.4) —
At 30th November    82.3 48.0
Cash-generating units
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) which have been identified according to the principal markets in which each business 
operates. A summary of the carrying value presented at CGU level is shown below
 Group
    2008 2007
    Cost and Cost and
    net book value net book value
    £m £m
Cash-generating unit
Floors    — 10.5
Specialist yarns    9.0 7.4
Fabrics and fibres    11.2 10.4
Polymeric mats and composites    25.6 19.5
Technical coated fabrics    36.3 —
Other    0.2 0.2
At 30th November    82.3 48.0
During the year management has carried out an impairment review for the goodwill carried in each cash-generating unit. All recoverable amounts are 
based on value in use and the key assumptions applied in the value in use calculations are set out below
1) Cash flow projections 
The Group prepares five year cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent annual financial budgets approved by the Directors with an appropriate 
extrapolation of these cash flows to a five year time horizon with an adjustment for the terminal value.
2) Discount Rate
A weighted average cost of capital of 10% on a pre-tax basis is used to discount the five year cash flow forecasts from each CGU. The same discount rate 
has been applied across all of the CGUs as management considers all of the CGUs to be part of the same segment.
3) Growth Rates
Growth rates of up to 5% are used to extrapolate cash flow forecasts in the short term.
No impairment arose as a result of the valuations. Management believes that the valuations are adequately robust such that variations in the key 
assumptions would not result in significant changes to the results of the impairment tests. Sensitivity analysis has been performed on they key assumptions 
which supports this conclusion. 68 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
12. Intangible assets 
 Computer  Research and Order Customer Marketing Technology Non-compete
 software  development backlog relationship related based agreement Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1st December 2006 2.5 — 0.2 11.4 2.5 9.2 1.2 27.0
 Exchange adjustments — — — 0.4 0.1 0.3 — 0.8
 Additions 0.8 0.7 — — — — — 1.5
 Disposals (0.2) — — — — — — (0.2)
At 30th November 2007 3.1 0.7 0.2 11.8 2.6 9.5 1.2 29.1
 Acquisition of 
 subsidiaries 0.6 — 0.1 18.9 10.3 9.0 0.3 39.2
 Disposal of 
 subsidiaries (3.1) (0.1) (0.1) (1.7) (0.9) (0.9) (0.3) (7.1)
 Exchange 
 adjustments 0.2 0.1 — 3.3 1.6 2.4 0.1 7.7
 Additions 0.8 0.6 — — — — — 1.4
At 30th November 2008 1.6 1.3 0.2 32.3 13.6 20.0 1.3 70.3
Aggregate amortisation
At 1st December 2006 1.7 — 0.2 1.3 0.1 1.0 0.3 4.6
 Exchange adjustments — — — — — 0.1 — 0.1
 Charge for the year — 
 Continuing operations — — — 1.2 0.3 1.2 0.3 3.0
 Charge for the year — 
 Discontinued operations 0.3 — — — — — — 0.3
 Disposals (0.1) — — — — — — (0.1)
At 30th November 2007 1.9 — 0.2 2.5 0.4 2.3 0.6 7.9
 Acquisition of 
 subsidiaries 0.4 — — — — — — 0.4
 Disposal of 
 subsidiaries (1.8) — (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) — (2.4)
 Exchange 
 adjustments — — — 0.4 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.9
 Charge for the year 
 — Continuing 
 operations 0.2 0.1 — 2.7 0.9 2.0 0.3 6.2
 Charge for the year 
 — Discontinued 
 operations 0.2 — 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.1 — 0.8
At 30th November 2008 0.9 0.1 0.2 5.6 1.4 4.6 1.0 13.8
Net book value
At 30th November 2008 0.7 1.2 — 26.7 12.2 15.4 0.3 56.5
At 30th November 2007  1.2 0.7 — 9.3 2.2 7.2 0.6 21.2
At 1st December 2006 0.8 — — 10.1 2.4 8.2 0.9 22.4
Notes
1)  Research and development assets relate to expenditure incurred in the course of research where findings can be applied to a plan or design for the 
production of new or substantially improved products and processes.
2)  Customer relationships consist of customer lists, customer contracts and relationships and non-contractual customer relationships. 
3)  Marketing related intangible assets are assets that are primarily used in the marketing or promotion of products or services. Such assets include 
trademarks, trade names, service marks, internet domain names.
4)  Technology based intangible assets relate to innovations and technological advances and include patented and unpatented technology, databases 
and trade secrets.
5)  Non-compete agreements prohibit a seller from competing with the purchaser of a business. 69 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
13. Property, plant and equipment
 Group Company
  
  Plant and   Plant and
 Property equipment Total Property equipment Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
 At 1st December 2006 39.1 118.3 157.4 0.2 0.2 0.4
 Exchange adjustment 1.4 3.9 5.3 — — —
 Additions 0.9 14.2 15.1 0.5 — 0.5
 Disposals (1.0) (1.6) (2.6) (0.1) — (0.1)
 Reclassifications (1.8) 1.8 — — — —
At 30th November 2007 38.6 136.6 175.2 0.6 0.2 0.8
 Exchange adjustment 6.4 25.7 32.1 — — —
 Additions 2.4 14.4 16.8 — 0.1 0.1
 Acquisition of subsidiaries 10.7 54.0 64.7 — — —
 Disposals (1.1) (3.3) (4.4) — — —
 Disposal of subsidiaries (10.4) (43.2) (53.6) — — —
 Reclassifications 1.6 (1.6) — — — —
At 30th November 2008 48.2 182.6 230.8 0.6 0.3 0.9
Accumulated depreciation
At 1st December 2006 9.1 58.1 67.2 0.1 0.1 0.2
 Exchange adjustment 0.4 1.8 2.2 — — —
 Charge for the year — 
 Continuing operations 0.9 7.0 7.9 — 0.1 0.1
 Charge for the year — 
 Discontinued operations 0.3 1.6 1.9 — — —
 Disposals (0.1) (1.2) (1.3) — — —
 Reclassifications (0.2) 0.2 — — — —
At 30th November 2007 10.4 67.5 77.9 0.1 0.2 0.3
 Exchange adjustment 1.5 11.9 13.4 — — —
 Charge for the year — 
 Continuing operations 1.2 10.6 11.8 — 0.1 0.1
 Charge for the year — 
 Discontinued operations 0.3 1.5 1.8 — — —
 Acquisition of subsidiaries 5.2 33.0 38.2 — — —
 Disposals (0.4) (2.5) (2.9) — — —
 Disposal of subsidiaries (4.5) (30.7) (35.2) — — —
At 30th November 2008 13.7 91.3 105.0 0.1 0.3 0.4
Net book value
At 30th November 2008 34.5 91.3 125.8 0.5 — 0.5
At 30th November 2007 28.2 69.1 97.3 0.5 — 0.5
At 1st December 2006 30.0 60.2 90.2 0.1 0.1 0.2
The carrying value of freehold land not depreciated was £3.7m (2007: £3.9m).
The net book value of assets held under finance leases was £1.9m (2007: £1.1m).
Committed capital expenditure at the balance sheet date totalled £4.7m (2007: £4.7m). 70 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
14. Investments in subsidiaries
 Company
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Shares in Group undertakings
Cost at 1st December    105.6 105.6
Disposal of subsidiary    (2.1) —
Cost at 30th November    103.5 105.6
Provision for impairment at 1st December    (26.9) (26.9)
Reversal of provision    25.1 —
Creation of provision    (7.0) —
    (8.8) (26.9)
Net book value at 30th November    94.7 78.7
The subsidiary undertakings whose results, or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the results shown in these accounts are 
shown within note 35.
15. Investment in associate
 Group
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Cost and net book value
At 1st December    0.2 0.1
Share of retained profit    0.1 0.1
At 30th November    0.3 0.2
The Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of its interest in associated undertakings are shown below
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Total assets    2.5 1.9
Total liabilities    (1.2) (1.1)
Net assets    1.3 0.8
Group share of net assets    0.3 0.2
Revenue    3.4 2.8
Profit for the year     0.4 0.3
Group share of profit for the year    0.1 0.1
The associates whose results, or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the results shown in these accounts are shown within 
note 35.
16. Inventories 
 Group
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Raw materials    18.9 14.0
Work in progress    10.7 6.5
Finished goods    44.2 30.8
    73.8 51.3
Inventories are presented in the balance sheet net of provision for impairment of obsolete and slow-moving items. Impairment is estimated by the Group’s 
management based upon prior experience and their assessment of the current and future economic environment. The write-down of inventories is 
included in cost of sales. 71 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
17. Trade and other receivables 
 Group
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Current
Trade receivables     69.1 53.6
less provision for impairment of receivables    (4.6) (1.1)
Net trade receivables     64.5 52.5
Other receivables    5.5 2.7
Prepayments and accrued income    2.2 6.3
    72.2 61.5
 Company
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Non-current
Other debtors 
Amounts owed by subsidiaries    123.6 30.6
Current
Amounts owed by subsidiaries    80.4 83.4
Other receivables    — 0.4
Prepayments and accrued income    5.8 1.1
    86.2 84.9
Current tax receivable    —  0.8
    86.2 85.7
The Group has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard 
payment terms and conditions are offered. The Group’s review includes external ratings and bank references, where available. Purchase limits are 
established for each customer; these limits are reviewed quarterly. The Group has a long history of trading with a number of its customers.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. 
Impairment losses
The age profile of gross trade receivables at the balance sheet date was
 Group
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Not past due    51.3 42.4
Past due 0–30 days    9.7 7.6
Past due 31–120 days    4.3 2.3
More than 120 days    3.8 1.3
    69.1 53.6
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows
 Group
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Balance at 1st December     (1.1) (1.3)
Increased during the year    (4.0) (0.3)
Reversed during the year    0.1 0.4
Utilised during the year    0.6 0.1
Disposal of subsidiaries    0.5 —
Currency translation adjustments    (0.7) —
At 30th November    (4.6) (1.1)
Provisions for impairment of receivables are estimated by Group management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic 
environment. When the Group is satisfied that no recovery of the amount owing is possible, the amounts are considered irrecoverable and are written off 
against the receivable directly, and recognised in the Income Statement when the receivable is considered to be uncollectable. The trade receivables 
impairment provision as at 30th November 2008 was £4.6m (2007: £1.1m). Management believe that this provision is adequate to cover the risk of bad 
debts any exposure to credit risk. The provisions in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no 
recovery of the amount owing is possible; at that point the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the financial asset directly. At the balance 
sheet date, 54.5% (2007: 81.0%) of trade receivables were insured. 72 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
18. Trade and other payables
 Group
    2008 2007
Current    £m £m
Trade payables    38.9 40.3
Other taxes and social security    2.7 6.7
Other payables    9.5 7.1
Accruals    20.3 17.6
Deferred consideration    3.0 0.6
    74.4 72.3
Current tax liabilities    8.4 5.7
    82.8 78.0
 Company
    2008 2007
Current    £m £m
Amounts owed to subsidiaries    24.4 12.5
Other payables    2.0 2.4
Accruals    3.2 1.8
Current tax liabilities    1.9 —
    31.5 16.7
19. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and non-current financial instruments 
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The fair value together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows
  Group Company Group Company
  Fair value  Fair value Fair value Fair value
  and  and and and
  book value book value book value book value
  2008 2008 2007 2007
  £m £m £m £m
Forward exchange contracts — Assets  2.0 2.0 0.2 0.2
Forward exchange contracts — Liabilities  (15.2) (13.3) (1.6) (1.6)
Cash at bank and in hand  27.5 23.2 5.8 0.6
Trade and other receivables  70.0 204.0 55.2 114.4
Trade and other payables  (79.8) (65.5) (77.4) (46.0)
Obligations under finance leases  (0.6) — (0.7) —
Bank overdrafts  (11.3) (10.0) (3.5) (14.6)
Preference shares  (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
Prepaid arrangement fees  0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5
Floating rate borrowings  (120.0) (120.0) (52.2) (45.1)
Deferred consideration  (3.0) — (0.6) (0.6)
  (130.5) 20.3 (74.7) 7.4
Estimation of fair value
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are not considered to be materially different from their book values. The following summarises the major 
methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Derivatives
Where available, the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is based on their listed market price. If this is not available, forward contracts are 
marked to market based on the current spot rate. The fair value of interest rate caps is based on counterparty quotes. 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Apart from borrowings with an interest rate cap struck at 4.50%, all interest-bearing loans and borrowings are at floating rates. Therefore, the fair value of 
these loans and borrowings is their carrying value. The fair values of the interest rate caps are not material.
Trade and other receivables/payables
The fair value of trade and other receivables and trade and other payables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market 
rate of interest at the balance sheet date if the effect is material.
Cash and cash equivalents
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is estimated as its carrying amount where the cash is repayable on demand. Where it is not repayable on 
demand then the fair value is estimated at the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the balance sheet date.
Finance lease liabilities
The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous lease arrangements. The 
estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates. 
Interest rates used for determining fair value
The interest rates used to discount estimated cash flows, when applicable, are based on the government yield curve at the reporting date plus an adequate 
credit spread. 73 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
19. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and non-current financial instruments continued
Analysis of borrowings
  Group Company Group Company
  2008 2008 2007 2007
  £m £m £m £m
Borrowings falling due within one year or on demand
Bank loans and overdrafts
Unsecured  15.7 14.4 7.9 19.0
Other borrowings
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts  0.3 — 0.5 —
  16.0 14.4 8.4 19.0
Borrowings falling due after more than one year
Bank loans and overdrafts
Unsecured  115.3 115.3 47.3 40.2
Other borrowings
Preference shares  0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts  0.3 — 0.2 —
  116.0 115.7 47.9 40.6
All of the Company’s and Group’s borrowings are unsecured. Bank loans or overdrafts, are denominated in one of a number of currencies and bear 
interest based on LIBOR (or, in the case of borrowings in euros, EURIBOR, or the lender’s base rate for the currency concerned). The following tables show 
the contracted maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments.
Cash and cash equivalents
  Group Company Group Company
  2008 2008 2007 2007
  £m £m  £m £m
Sterling  8.9 8.5 0.1 —
Euro  13.4 13.6 4.8 —
United States dollar  3.0 1.1 — —
Other  2.2 — 0.9 0.6
  27.5 23.2 5.8 0.6
 Group 
 2008
 Effective  Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 > 5
 rate 1 year years  years years Total
 % £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial 
liabilities
Unsecured bank loans
— sterling  6.7 (4.5) (4.5) (111.0) — (120.0)
Bank overdrafts
— sterling 3.0 (4.0) — — — (4.0)
— euro 4.3 (3.9) — — — (3.9)
— other 6.3 (3.4)    (3.4)
Finance leases 5.5 (0.3) (0.1) (0.2)  (0.6)
Preference shares 5.8 — — — (0.4) (0.4)
Deferred consideration 0.0 (3.0) — — — (3.0)
Prepaid arrangement fees  0.1 0.1 0.1  0.3
  (19.0) (4.5) (111.1) (0.4) (135.0)
Trade and other payables 0.0 (79.8) — — — (79.8)
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts used 
for hedging
Outflow  (15.2) — — — (15.2)
Inflow  2.0 — — — 2.0
  (112.0) (4.5) (111.1) (0.4) (228.0) 74 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
19. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and non current financial instruments continued
 Group 
 2007
 Effective  Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 > 5
 rate 1 year years  years years Total
 % £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial 
liabilities
Unsecured bank loans
— sterling  7.1 (1.7) (1.7) (13.1) — (16.5)
— euro 4.7 (2.8) (2.8) (30.1) — (35.7)
Bank overdrafts
— sterling 6.8 (1.1) — — — (1.1)
— euro 5.0 (1.4) — — — (1.4)
— other  6.3 (1.0) — — — (1.0)
Finance leases 5.5 (0.5) (0.2) — — (0.7)
Preference shares 5.8 — — — (0.4) (0.4)
Deferred consideration — 
unsecured loan notes 0.0 (0.6) — — — (0.6)
Prepaid arrangement fees  0.1 0.1 0.3 — 0.5 
  (9.0) (4.6) (42.9) (0.4) (56.9)
Trade and other payables 0.0 (77.4) — — — (77.4)
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts used for 
hedging
Outflow  (1.6) — — — (1.6)
Inflow  0.2 — — — 0.2
  (87.8) (4.6) (42.9) (0.4) (135.7)
 Company 
 2008
 Effective  Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 > 5
 rate 1 year years  years years Total
 % £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial 
liabilities
Unsecured bank loans
— sterling  6.7 (4.5) (4.5) (111.0) — (120.0)
Bank overdrafts
— sterling 3.0 (6.5) — — — (6.5)
— other  6.3 (3.5) — — — (3.5)
Preference shares 5.8 — — — (0.4) (0.4)
Prepaid arrangement fees  0.1 0.1 0.1  0.3
  (14.4) (4.4) (110.9) (0.4) (130.1)
Trade and other payables 0.0 (31.5) (34.0) — — (65.5)
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts used 
for hedging
Outflow  (13.3) — — — (13.3)
Inflow  2.0 — — — 2.0
  (57.2) (38.4) (110.9) (0.4) (206.9)
Deferred consideration payable by a subsidiary company of £3.0m is guaranteed by the Company, and is not included in the table above (2007: £nil). 75 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
19. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and non current financial instruments continued
 Company 
 2007
 Effective  Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 > 5
 rate 1 year years  years years Total
 % £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans
— sterling  7.1 (1.7) (1.7) (13.1) — (16.5)
— euro 4.6 (2.8) (2.8) (23.0) — (28.6)
Bank overdrafts
— sterling 6.8 (10.0) — — — (10.0)
— euro 5.0 (3.1) — — — (3.1)
— other  6.3 (1.5) — — — (1.5)
Preference shares 5.8 — — — (0.4) (0.4)
Deferred consideration — 
unsecured loan notes 0.0 (0.6) — — — (0.6)
Prepaid arrangement fees  0.1 0.1 0.3  0.5 
  (19.6) (4.4) (35.8) (0.4) (60.2)
Trade and other payables 0.0 (16.7) — — — (16.7)
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts used for 
hedging
Outflow  (1.6) — — — (1.6)
Inflow  0.2 — — — 0.2
  (37.7) (4.4) (35.8) (0.4) (78.3)
Details of the Company’s and Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies are provided in the Group Finance Director’s Review on pages 
18 and 19. 
At 30th November 2008 and 30th November 2007, there were no loans secured by either fixed or floating charges on the Group’s net assets.
The Group holds cash in several major financial institutions worldwide and reviews their creditworthiness periodically to ensure the Group is not exposed 
to unacceptable levels of counterparty risk.
Foreign Exchange Risk 
(a) Transactional
The Company and Group seek to mitigate the foreign exchange risk in transactions which are deemed at least highly probable. Forward foreign exchange 
contracts are used for this purpose. The notional and carrying amounts, and fair values of swaps and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges at 
30th November 2008 are shown in (b) below. All mature within twelve months of the balance sheet date in line with the hedged cash flows.
(b) Translational
The Group has Czech koruna, euro, Hungarian forint, and US dollar forward exchange contracts which are designated as hedges of the net investments in 
certain subsidiaries within the Czech Republic, euro zone, Hungary, and the United States respectively. The notional contract amount and carrying amounts 
of the borrowings in the balance sheet as at 30th November 2008 are as follows.
Derivative assets/(liabilities) in respect of net investment hedges
 Carrying and fair value amount 2008
 Notional  Designated Not designated Designated Carrying
 contract  as cash flow as cash flow as net investment amount per
 amount hedges hedges hedges balance sheet
 £m £m £m £m £m
Current assets 66.3 — — 2.0 2.0
Current liabilities 269.2 — — (13.3) (13.3)
   Derivative Derivative
   assets liabilities 2008
Derivative assets/(liabilities) in respect of net investment hedges  £m £m £m
Czech koruna   0.6 — 0.6
Euro   0.8 (10.7) (9.9)
Hungarian forint   0.4 (0.1) 0.3
United States dollar    0.2 (2.5) (2.3)
   2.0 (13.3) (11.3)
All of the above amounts are due within one year or less.
The gains and losses on ineffective portions of such derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement. During the year to 30th November 
2008, an amount of £nil (2007: £nil) was recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness. The amount recognised in equity in the period in respect of hedges was 
£23.7m (2007: £3.6m). 76 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
19. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and non-current financial instruments continued
 Carrying and fair value amount 2007
 Notional  Designated Not designated Designated Carrying
 contract  as cash flow as cash flow as net investment amount per
 amount hedges hedges hedges balance sheet
 £m £m £m £m £m
Current assets 21.9 — — 0.2 0.2
Current liabilities 98.4 — — (1.6) (1.6)
   Derivative Derivative
   assets liabilities 2007
   £m £m £m
Euro   0.1 (1.4) (1.3)
Hungarian forint   — (0.2) (0.2)
United States dollar   0.1 — 0.1
   0.2 (1.6) (1.4)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) in respect of cash flow hedges 
 Carrying and fair value amount 2008
 Notional  Designated Not designated Designated Carrying
 contract  as cash flow as cash flow as net investment amount per
 amount hedges hedges hedges balance sheet
 £m £m £m £m £m
Current assets 2.8 — — — —
Current liabilities 24.9 (1.9) — — (1.9)
   Derivative  Derivative
   assets liabilities 2008
   £m £m £m
Euro   — (1.1) (1.1)
United States dollar   — (0.8) (0.8)
   — (1.9) (1.9)
 Carrying and fair value amount 2007
 Notional  Designated Not designated Designated Carrying
 contract  as cash flow as cash flow as net investment amount per
 amount hedges hedges hedges balance sheet
 £m £m £m £m £m
Current assets — — — — —
Current liabilities — — — — —
All of the above amounts are due within one year or less. 77 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
19. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and non current financial instruments continued
The Group had the following forward foreign exchange contracts in place at the balance sheet date
  2008 2008 2007 2007
  Currency Average exchange Currency Average exchange
  million rate of million rate of
Pound sterling/Czech koruna   410.0 29.43 — —
Pound sterling/euro  356.9 1.25 153.2 1.42
Pound sterling/Hungarian forint   4,200.0 305.21 4,200.0 361.65
Pound sterling/United States dollar   45.3 1.69 27.0 2.04
Euro/United States dollar   16.7 1.34 — —
The charge to the income statement, reflecting the fall in the value of contracts that cannot be taken to reserves, was £nil (2007: £nil).
The Company had the following forward foreign exchange contracts in place at the balance sheet date
  2008 2008 2007 2007
  Currency Average exchange Currency Average exchange
  million rate of million rate of
Pound sterling/Czech koruna   410.0 29.43 — —
Pound sterling/euro  343.9 1.25 153.2 1.42
Pound sterling/Hungarian forint   4,200.0 305.21 4,200.0 361.65
Pound sterling/United States dollar   37.3 1.70 27.0 2.04
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year
  Average rate Average rate Year end rate Year end rate
  2008 2007 2008 2007
Pound sterling/euro  1.28 1.47 1.21 1.40
Pound sterling/United States dollar   1.90 2.06 1.54 2.00
Pound sterling/Hungarian forint  322.5 369.4 312.8 354.6
A 10% strengthening of the £ against the following currencies would have decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis 
assumes that all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2007.
Amounts falling due within one year
  Equity Profit or loss Equity Profit or loss
  2008 2008 2007 2007
  £m £m £m £m
United States dollar  (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) (0.1)
Euro  (3.4) (3.4) (1.9) (1.9)
Hungarian forint  (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
A 10% weakening of £ against the above currencies as at 30th November 2008 would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the 
amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Credit Risk
Trade receivable exposures are with a wide range of counterparties, and the credit strength of these counterparties is monitored. Where appropriate, 
credit risks are minimised through the use of forward funding, letters of credit, variations in payment terms, and insurance. The maximum exposure to 
credit risk is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset as recorded in the balance sheet. There are no significant concentrations of credit 
risk at the balance sheet date. See note 17 for further details.
The risk of default by a financial counterparty is mitigated through a policy of only using approved counterparties and clearly defined counterparty credit 
ratings. Risk is diversified through counterparty limits. 
The Group’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only where there is a clear commercial advantage in doing so. 
The Company believes that all amounts receivable from subsidiary companies are recoverable in full. 78 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
19. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and non-current financial instruments continued
Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum credit risk at the reporting date was
  Group Company Group Company
  2008 2008 2007 2007
  £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss  — — — —
Loans and receivables  70.0 209.8 55.2 114.4
Cash and cash equivalents  27.5 23.2 5.8 0.6
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging — Assets  2.0 2.0 0.2 0.2
  99.5 235.0 61.2 115.2
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s strategy is to ensure with a reasonable amount of certainty that the overall Group interest charge is protected against material adverse 
movements in interest rates.
At the year end the Company and the Group held interest rate caps with a strike price of 4.50% on 36.0m of its debt (2007: 4.50% on 36.0m). The financial 
asset arising from these instruments at the year end was not material. All other interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities are on a floating rate basis 
with the exception of £0.4m of preference debt with a coupon rate of either 5.50% or 6.00%. 
Subsequent to the year end, the Company entered into a series of cross-currency swaps with two of its relationship banking counterparties. Under these 
swaps, the Company receives interest in sterling at an initial rate of 6.70% until October 2009, and thereafter at 1.50% above the London inter-bank offered 
rate. It will pay interest on a mix of euros and United States dollars at rates of between 1.62% and 2.20% above euribor or London inter-bank offered rate 
(as appropriate), subject to a tranche of euro denominated payments being fixed at 4.75%. The cross-currency swaps mature in November 2011, broadly 
co-terminous with the expiry of the Group’s banking facilities.
Profile
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group and Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments was
  Group Company Group Company
  2008 2008 2007 2007
  £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate instruments
Financial assets  — — — —
Financial liabilities  — — — —
Variable rate instruments
Financial assets  2.0 2.0 0.2 0.2
Financial liabilities  (15.2) (13.3) (1.6) (1.6)
  (13.2) (11.3) (1.4) (1.4)
Sensitivity analysis
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased or decreased equity by £1.3m (2007: £0.4m). The impact on the profit or loss for the 
period would have increased or decreased profit by £1.3m (2007: £0.4m). This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency 
rates, remain constant.
Borrowing facilities
The Company and Group have the following undrawn committed floating rate facilities at 30th November 2008 in which all conditions precedent had 
been met.
    Group  Group
    and  and
    Company Company
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Expiring in more than two years    96.4 118.3
All these facilities incur commitment fees at market rates, and are repayable in December 2011. During the year, bank consent was required for the 
disposal of the Floors Division. Consent was obtained unanimously, and included conditions whereby part of the then available facilities were cancelled, 
and the rate of interest payable increased to 1.50% above the London inter-bank offered rate. Subsequent to year end, facilities totalling 81.0m were 
cancelled voluntarily. 
The minimum lease payments under Group finance leases fall due as follows
 Group
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Within one year    0.3 0.5
Later than one year but not more than five years    0.3 0.3
Total minimum lease payments    0.6 0.8
Less future finance charges on finance leases    — (0.1)
Present value of finance lease liabilities    0.6 0.7 79 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
20. Deferred taxation 
Group
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
   Net assets/   Net a ssets/
 Assets Liabilities (liabilities) Assets Liabilities (liabilities)
 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets — (15.5) (15.5) — (4.8) (4.8)
Employee share schemes — — — 0.6 — 0.6
Retirement benefit liabilities 1.2 — 1.2 1.0 — 1.0
Accelerated tax depreciation  — (12.8) (12.8) — (10.3) (10.3)
Other 1.5 — 1.5 1.2 — 1.2
Tax assets/(liabilities) 2.7 (28.3) (25.6) 2.8 (15.1) (12.3)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
    2008  2007
    £m  £m
Tax losses    13.6 12.9
Tax losses include an amount of £10.7m (2007: £10.7m) in respect of capital losses. The tax losses have no expiry date. 
Movement in deferred tax during the year ended 30th November 2008
 Balance      Balance
 1st Dec  Recognised Recognised Arising on  Exchange 30th Nov
 2007 in equity in income acquisitions Disposals adjustment 2008
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets (4.8) — 1.6 (11.5) 1.0 (1.8) (15.5)
Employee share schemes 0.6 (0.2) (0.4) — — — —
Retirement benefit liabilities 1.0 0.5 (0.3) 0.1 (0.1) — 1.2
Accelerated tax depreciation (10.3) — (0.1) (1.4) 1.2 (2.2) (12.8)
Other 1.2 — (1.1) 1.1 (0.1) 0.4 1.5
 (12.3) 0.3 (0.3) (11.7) 2.0 (3.6) (25.6)
Movement in deferred tax during the year ended 30th November 2007
 Balance       Balance
 1st Dec  Recognised Recognised Arising on  Exchange 30th Nov
 2006 in equity in income acquisitions Transfers Adjustment 2007
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets (6.0) — 0.8 0.6 — (0.2) (4.8)
Employee share schemes 0.7 (0.2) 0.1 — — — 0.6
Retirement benefit liabilities 6.1 (3.5) (0.4) — (1.2) — 1.0
Accelerated tax depreciation (10.7) — (1.2) 0.9 0.9 (0.2) (10.3)
Other 0.5 — 0.1 0.2 0.4 — 1.2
 (9.4) (3.7) (0.6) 1.7 0.1 (0.4) (12.3)
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets of £2.7m (2007: £2.8m) as the Directors believe it is probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which the assets can be utilised as they reverse over the coming years. 
The Group has not recognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of investments in subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of 
the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. In the majority of cases it is likely that 
sufficient underlying tax credits will be available to offset the tax liability arising and it is not considered practicable to disclose the amount of the timing 
difference in respect of the deferred tax liabilities which have not been recognised. 
Company 
Recognised deferred tax assets
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Employee share scheme    — 0.6
Retirement benefit liabilities    — 0.2
Accelerated tax depreciation    0.1 —
    0.1 0.8
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Tax losses    9.2 9.0
Tax losses include an amount of £7.2m (2007: £7.2m) in respect of capital losses. The tax losses have no expiry date. 80 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
20. Deferred taxation continued
Movement in deferred tax asset during the year ended 30th November 2008
  Balance    Balance
  1st December  Recognised Recognised 30th November
  2007 in equity in income 2008
  £m £m £m £m
Employee share schemes  0.6 (0.2) (0.4) —
Retirement benefit liabilities  0.2 — (0.2) —
Accelerated tax depreciation  — — 0.1 0.1
  0.8 (0.2) (0.5) 0.1
Movement in deferred tax asset during the year ended 30 November 2007
  Balance    Balance
  1st December  Recognised Recognised 30th November
  2006 in equity in income 2007
  £m £m £m £m
Employee share schemes  0.7 (0.2) 0.1 0.6
Retirement benefit liabilities  4.7 (3.5) (1.0) 0.2
  5.4 (3.7) (0.9) 0.8
There are no timing differences arising in respect of the deferred tax liabilities which have not been recognised. 
21. Provisions
 Group
      Pensions
    Restructuring equalisation
    (note 5) (note 5)
    £m £m
Current
At 1st December 2007    — —
Charge for the year    2.3 —
At 30th November 2008    2.3 —
Non-current
At 1st December 2007    — —
Charge for the year    — 6.2
Utilised in year    — (0.2)
At 30th November 2008    — 6.0
The Group has made provision for £2.3m of one-off integration and restructuring costs at MTX following its acquisition in January 2008. These costs have 
been charged to operating profit as a non-recurring item, and are expected to be paid during 2009.
As discussed in note 5, a provision has been created in respect of the potential UK pension scheme funding shortfall in respect of equalisation. When the 
estimate of the additional funding liability is confirmed, this will form part of our IAS 19 pension liability and a funding schedule will be agreed with the 
Trustees as part of the ongoing triennial valuation of the scheme which will take this into account. A legal claim against certain professional advisers in 
respect of any liability arising is likely to be made but no recoveries have been assumed for the purpose of calculating the provision required.
     Company
     Pensions 
     equalisation
     (note 5)
     £m
Non-current
At 1st December 2007     —
Charge for the year     6.2
Utilised in year     (0.2)
At 30th November 2008     6.0 81 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
22.  Other payables 
 Group
    2008 2007
Non-current    £m £m
Other payables    0.1 1.4
 Company
    2008 2007
Non-current    £m £m
Amounts owed to subsidiaries    34.0 29.3
23. Share capital
 Group and Company
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Authorised share capital 
200,000,000 ordinary shares of 25p each (2007: 200,000,000 ordinary shares of 25p each)  50.0 50.0
Allotted, called up and fully paid 
At 1st December (153,997,687) ordinary shares of 25p each)    38.5 38.3
Shares issued to employees    — 0.2
Shares issued under the Long-Term Incentive Plan    0.1 —
At 30th November (154,571,152 ordinary shares of 25p each)     38.6 38.5
Preference shares
 Group and Company
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Authorised share capital 
100,000 (2007: 100,000) 6% first cumulative preference stock of £1.00 each   0.1 0.1
100,000 (2007: 100,000) 6% second cumulative preference stock of £1.00 each   0.1 0.1
200,000 (2007: 200,000) 5.5% third cumulative preference stock of £1.00 each   0.2 0.2
    0.4 0.4
Allotted, called up and fully paid 
100,000 (2007: 100,000) 6% first cumulative preference stock of £1.00 each   0.1 0.1
100,000 (2007: 100,000) 6% second cumulative preference stock of £1.00 each   0.1 0.1
200,000 (2007: 200,000) 5.5% third cumulative preference stock of £1.00 each   0.2 0.2
    0.4 0.4
Preference shares are included within borrowings. Preference shares have priority over ordinary shares on a winding-up of the Company. Provided that 
preference dividends remain paid in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, preference shares do not carry voting rights.
Shares issued during the year
213,783 shares (2007: 714,802 shares) were issued to employees who exercised share options. Proceeds received were £0.1m (2007: £0.6m). 359,682 
shares were issued under the Long Term Incentive Plan (2007: nil).
37,760 shares (2007: nil) were issued to the ESOP in order to hedge awards made under long-term incentive plans. Proceeds received were £nil (2007: 
£nil).
Potential issues of ordinary shares
An element of senior executive remuneration is provided in the form of share options and Long-Term Incentive Plan awards. More details of these options 
and awards can be found in the Directors’ report on Remuneration on pages 33 to 40. Eligible UK employees are also invited to participate in the Low & 
Bonar 1997 Sharesave Scheme. 82 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
23. Share capital continued
Share options
Under the provisions of the employee share option schemes there were options for a total of 6.2m ordinary shares outstanding at 30th November 2008 
(2007: 5.8m ordinary shares). The number of options outstanding relating to options granted in the last financial year was 1.2m (2007: 2.4m). The disposal 
of the Floors Division on 30th September 2008 has resulted in the vesting of 2.0m options held by employees within the entities disposed that are now 
exercisable and will be either exercised or lapsed by 31st March 2009. The IFRS 2 charge for these options has been accelerated and is now fully 
recognised at 
30th November 2008.
Details of the options included in the IFRS 2 charge are detailed below. There are also options for which under the transitional rules of IFRS 1, the Company 
has elected not to apply IFRS 2. Details of all share options outstanding under these schemes are as follows
 Ordinary shares of 25p each
  Fair Exercise
Year of value  price in Exercise 1st Dec    30th Nov
grant in pence pence period 2007 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2008
Share options not accounted for under IFRS 2
1997 — 380.38 2006 to 2008 12,405 — — (12,405) — 
(1)
1998 — 282.40 2006 to 2008 25,939 — — (25,939) —
(1)
2000 — 81.57 2007 to 2008 1,801 — (1,801) — —
(1)
2001 — 52.31 2008 to 2009 35,123 — (35,123) — —
(1)
2002 — 45.22 2007 to 2010 29,829 — (4,391) — 25,438
(1)
Total not accounted for under IFRS2   105,097 — (41,315) (38,344) 25,438
Share options accounted for under IFRS 2
2003 22.87 53.20 2006 to 2011 221,807 — (164,603) (5,582) 51,622
(1)
2004 36.23 80.69 2007 to 2014 84,278 — (3,034) (10,742) 70,502
(1)
2004 31.96 99.75 2007 to 2014 325,468 — — — 325,468
(1)
2006 33.37 93.00 2009 to 2016 596,808 — (742) (150,612) 445,454
(2)
2006 29.70 118.00 2009 to 2016 1,301,115 — — (79,982) 1,221,133
(2)
2007 34.26 111.20 2010 to 2017 464,075 — (1,090) (183,743) 279,242
(2)
2007 35.63 138.00 2010 to 2017 1,579,366 28,584 — (159,192) 1,448,758
(2)
2008
(4)
 21.80 82.60 2011 to 2018 — 257,352 — (12,518) 244,834
(3)
2008
(4)
 21.79 82.60 2011 to 2018 — 700,357 — — 700,357
(3)
2008
(5)
 21.88 114.00 2011 to 2018 — 361,442 — (106,255) 255,187
(2)
Phantom share options accounted for under IFRS 2
2004
(6)
 2.00 99.75 2007 to 2014 339,136 — — — 339,136
(1)
2006
(6)
 1.14 118.00 2009 to 2016 406,480 — — — 406,480
(3)
2007
(6)
 0.69 138.84 2010 to 2017 333,297 — — — 333,297
(3)
2008
(6)
 0.91 114.00 2011 to 2018 — 46,299 — — 46,299
(3)
Total accounted for 
under IFRS 2 24.98 113.15  5,651,830 1,394,034 (169,469) (708,626) 6,167,769
Total share options    5,756,927 1,394,034 (210,784) (746,970) 6,193,207
Notes
1 All of these options were exercisable at 30th November 2008.
2 The options held by employees within the Floors Division vested on disposal of the division and were exercisable at 30th November 2008.
3 None of these outstanding options were exercisable at 30th November 2008.
4 The fair value of the awards was calculated using the Black–Scholes model, the assumed future volatility was 29.4% to 27.4% and was based upon 
historic volatility. The expected term ranged from 3.39 years to 5.39 years. Dividend yield was assumed to be 5.2% and the risk-free interest rate 
was 4.5%.
5 The fair value per share of these awards ranged between 21.27p and 22.92p was calculated by using the Stochastic model, the assumed future 
volatility was in the range 29.2% to 29.7% and was based upon historic volatility. The expected term ranged from 3 years to 10 years. Dividend yield 
was assumed to be 4.8% to 4.3% and the risk-free interest rate was 4.6 to 4.1%.
6 The fair value per share of these awards was re calculated based on data as at 30th November 2008 and was calculated by using the Stochastic 
model. The assumed future volatility ranged between 39% for the 2008 issue and 49% for the 2004 options and was based upon historic volatility. 
The expected term ranged from 3 years to 10 years. Dividend yield was assumed to be 12.4% and the risk-free interest rate ranged from 2.7% for the 
2008 issue and 3.4% for the 2004 options.
7 The options have been exercised on a regular basis throughout the year and the weighted average share price during the year was 99p (2007: 137p). 83 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
23. Share capital continued
Long-term incentive plan awards
Under the provisions of the long-term incentive plans there were awards for a total of 5.3m ordinary shares outstanding at 30th November 2008 (2007: 6.1m 
ordinary shares). The number of awards outstanding relating to awards granted in the last financial year was 0.1m (2006: 4.3m).
Details of the awards included in the IFRS 2 charge are detailed below. Details of options outstanding under these schemes are as follows
Long-term incentive plan awards accounted for under IFRS 2
 Ordinary shares of 25p each
  Fair Award
Year of value  price Vesting 1st Dec    30th Nov
grant in pence pence period 2007 Awarded Released Lapsed 2008
2003 9.08 47.56 2003 to 2008 406,489 — (406,489) — —
2005 61.44 104.40 2005 to 2008 544,972 — (359,682) (185,290) —
2006 79.93 118.00 2006 to 2009 725,844 — — — 725,844
2006 83.10 118.75 2006 to 2009 185,263 — — — 185,263
2007 100.54 138.25 2007 to 2010 128,260 — — — 128,260
2007 78.48 114.25 2007 to 2010 4,122,086 — — — 4,122,086
(1)
2008 67.95 104.25 2008 to 2011 — 120,192 — — 120,192
(2)
Total 79.14 115.28  6,112,914 120,192 (766,171) (185,290) 5,281,645
Notes
1 The fair value per share of these awards ranged from 29p to 114.25p and was derived using the Stochastic model. The assumed future volatility was 
23.7%. The dividend yield and the risk-free interest rate were not applicable to the fair value calculation; the expected term was 3–5 years.
2 The fair value per share of the awards ranged from 54.8p to 90.2p and was derived using the Stochastic model. The assumed future volatility was 
29.3%, the dividend yield was 4.8% and the risk-free interest rate was 4.6% the expected term was 3 years. 
Of the total share based payment charge of £2.0m in 2008, £0.6m related to options held by employees of the Floors Division that vested on its disposal and 
were charged to the result for the year from discontinued operations.
24. Share premium account 
 Group and Company
    2008 2007
    £m £m
At 1st December    30.3 29.9
Shares issued    0.3 0.4
At 30th November    30.6 30.3
25. Other reserves 
 Group
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Translation reserve
At 1st December    (1.9) 0.2
Foreign exchange translation differences recycled from reserves   (2.3) (3.3)
Adjustments on translation of net assets and results of overseas subsidiaries   (5.3) 1.2
At 30th November     (9.5) (1.9)
 Company
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Translation reserve
At 1st December    (0.1) —
Adjustments on translation of currency loans to fund overseas investments   (10.2) (0.1)
At 30th November     (10.3) (0.1) 84 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
26. Reconciliation of changes in equity
      Equity
     attributable
     to eq uity 
     holders 
 Share Share Translation Retained of the  Minority Total
 capital premium reserve earnings parent interest equity
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st December 2007 38.5 30.3 (1.9) 61.1 128.0 3.1 131.1
Total recognised (expense)/ 
income for the year — — (5.3) 45.1 39.8 1.2 41.0
Foreign exchange translation 
differences recycled from reserves — — (2.3) — (2.3) — (2.3)
Equity participation in new subsidiary — — — — — 0.4 0.4
Dividends paid to ordinary 
shareholders — — — (7.7) (7.7) — (7.7)
Share-based payment — — — 2.0 2.0 — 2.0
Ordinary shares issued 0.1 0.3 — (0.4) — — —
Net increase/(decrease) for the year 0.1 0.3 (7.6) 39.0 31.8 1.6 33.4
At 30th November 2008 38.6 30.6 (9.5) 100.1 159.8 4.7 164.5
      Equity
     attributable
     to equity 
     holders 
 Share Share Translation Retained of the  Minority Total
 capital premium reserve earnings parent interest equity
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st December 2006 38.3 29.9 0.2 45.7 114.1 2.8 116.9
Total recognised (expense)/income 
for the year — — (2.1) 21.4 19.3 0.3 19.6
Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders — — — (7.0) (7.0) — (7.0)
Share-based payment — — — 1.0 1.0 — 1.0
Ordinary shares issued 0.2 0.4 — — 0.6 — 0.6
Purchase of own shares
Net increase/(decrease) for the year 0.2 0.4 (2.1) 15.4 13.9 0.3 14.2
At 30th November 2007 38.5 30.3 (1.9) 61.1 128.0 3.1 131.1
        Equity
       attributable
       to equity 
       holders 
   Share Share Translation Retained of the
   capital premium reserve earnings parent
Company   £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st December 2007   38.5 30.3 (0.1) 20.0 88.7
Total recognised (expense)/income for the year  — — (10.2) 38.2 28.0
Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders   — — — (7.7) (7.7)
Share-based payment   — — — 2.0 2.0
Ordinary shares issued   0.1 0.3 — (0.4) —
Net increase/(decrease) for the year   0.1 0.3 (10.2) 32.1 22.3
At 30th November 2008   38.6 30.6 (10.3) 52.1 111.0
        Equity
       attributable
       to equity 
       holders 
   Share Share Translation Retained of the
   capital premium reserve earnings parent
Company   £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st December 2006   38.3 29.9 — 21.7 89.9
Total recognised (expense)/income for the year  — — (0.1) 4.3 4.2
Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders   — — — (7.0) (7.0)
Share-based payment   — — — 1.0 1.0
Ordinary shares issued   0.2 0.4 — — 0.6
Net increase/(decrease) for the year   0.2 0.4 (0.1) (1.7) (1.2)
At 30th November 2007   38.5 30.3 (0.1) 20.0 88.7 85 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
27. Minority interest
 Group
    2008 2007
    £m £m
At 1st December    3.1 2.8
Equity participation in new subsidiary    0.4 —
Share of (loss)/profit after taxation    (0.1) 0.3
Exchange adjustment    1.3 —
At 30th November    4.7 3.1
The equity participation in new subsidiary relates to the minority share of Bonar Emirates Technical Yarns (note 28).
28. Acquisitions
(a) Mehler Texnologies (“MTX”) acquisition
On 3rd January 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of the individual companies within the MTX Group for 163.0m on a cash-free, debt-
free basis from Mehler AG. MTX is a leading producer of technical coated fabrics and produces premium materials for a variety of uses, including side 
curtains for the transport market and fabrics for the architectural and print markets. In addition, the Group acquired a licence for £0.4m to use the Mehler 
Texnologies name.
    Fair value
    adjustments 
    and accounting 
   Book value policy alignment Fair value
   £m £m £m
Intangible assets   0.2 34.4 34.6
Deferred tax assets   0.4 — 0.4
Property, plant and equipment   21.6 4.5 26.1
Inventories   28.7 (0.9) 27.8
Trade and other receivables   26.9 (0.3) 26.6
Current tax liabilities   — (1.0) (1.0)
Trade and other payables   (11.6) (1.2) (12.8)
Deferred tax liabilities   (0.1) (10.8) (10.9)
Post-employment benefits   (2.6) — (2.6)
Net assets   63.5 24.7 88.2
Cash consideration paid including costs     (122.1)
Less cash acquired with business     1.6
Net cash outflow     (120.5)
Goodwill arising on consolidation     32.3
The fair value adjustments above have arisen as follows
(i) Recognition of intangible assets for marketing related assets, customer relationships and technology based assets.
(ii) Assets and liabilities have been fair valued at the date of acquisition including the revaluation of property, plant and equipment.
(iii) Adjustments have been made to inventories in accordance with IFRS 3 to recognise a manufacturer’s margin in the valuation. Additional inventory 
provisions have been recognised.
(iv) As required by IAS 12 “Income Taxes”, current and deferred tax has been provided on the above adjustments.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of the MTX Group is attributable to the anticipated profitability from the sale of the Group’s existing products in new 
markets, and the anticipated future technological and operational synergies from the integration into the Group.
MTX Group contributed £105.3m to revenue and £5.1m to the Group’s profit before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and 30th November 
2008. If the acquisition of MTX had been completed on the first day of the current period, Group revenues for the period would have been £342.2m and 
Group profit from continuing operations after tax would have been £0.2m. 86 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
28. Acquisitions continued
(b) Westbond acquisition
On 8th January 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Westbond Limited, a producer of fusion bonded carpet tiles, for a total consideration 
of £10.9m. Of the total consideration, £4.5m was deferred and dependent on certain revenue and profitability targets being met. The targets were met and 
the deferred consideration was paid during July 2008. Westbond was disposed of on 30th September 2008 as part of the disposal of the Floors Division (see 
note 29).
    Fair value 
   Book value adjustments Fair value
   £m £m £m
Intangible assets   — 4.0 4.0
Property, plant and equipment   0.4 — 0.4
Inventories   1.6 (0.4) 1.2
Trade and other receivables   1.7 — 1.7
Current tax liabilities   (0.4) (0.1) (0.5)
Trade and other payables   (1.5) (0.1) (1.6)
Deferred tax liabilities   — (1.2) (1.2)
Net assets   1.8 2.2 4.0
Cash consideration including costs     11.4
Less cash acquired with business     (0.4)
Net cash outflow     11.0
Goodwill arising on consolidation     7.0
The fair value adjustments above have arisen as follows
(i)  Recognition of intangible assets for marketing related assets, customer relationships and technology based assets.
(ii)  Assets and liabilities have been fair valued at the date of acquisition.
(iii) Adjustments have been made to inventories and payables in accordance with IFRS 3.
(iv) As required by IAS 12 “Income Taxes”, current and deferred tax has been provided on the above adjustments.
The goodwill arising on acquisition of Westbond is attributable to the creation of significant opportunities for cross-selling and other synergies.
Westbond’s results are included in the profit on disposal of discontinued operations. 
(c) Bonar Emirates Technical Yarns Industries LLC
During the year we established Bonar Emirates Technical Yarns Industries LLC (“BETY”) in conjunction with Abu Dhabi Basic Industries Corporation PJSC 
to manufacture artificial grass yarns and carpet backing yarns, based in Abu Dhabi. The Group has treated BETY as a subsidiary in the Group accounts as 
the Group holds economic control. Goodwill of £0.4m arose on the investment during the year.
(d) Prior year acquisitions
Geo-Tipptex
During the year, additional contingent consideration of £0.4m was paid which had not been reflected in the original acquisition price used in the 
acquisition accounting. This resulted in an increase in the value of goodwill.
Colbond Group
During the year, an adjustment was made to increase goodwill by £3.0m reflecting additional contingent consideration that is now anticipated to become 
payable.
(e) Deferred consideration 
The Group paid deferred consideration of £0.6m in respect of the acquisition of LCM Construction Products Ltd during the year. 87 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
29. Discontinued operations
On 30th September 2008, the Group sold its Floors Division for a debt-free and cash-free cash consideration of £123.0m. The net cash inflow, after payment 
of costs, for the year to November 2008 was £116.5m. After settlement of all costs, the net cash inflow is expected to be £113.9m. The detailed income 
statement analysis of the discontinued operations which have been included as a single line comprising a profit after tax of £60.8m in the consolidated 
income statement for the year ended 30th November 2008 is as follows
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Revenue    96.0 101.5
Expenses    (85.6) (89.5)
Operating profit before amortisation and non-recurring items   10.4 12.0
Amortisation    (0.8) (0.3)
Non-recurring items    (0.6) —
Operating profit      9.0 11.7
Net finance costs    (0.1) —
Profit on ordinary activities before tax    8.9 11.7
Profit attributable to disposal    55.9 —
Profit before tax    64.8 11.7
Attributable tax expense    (4.0) (3.6)
Net profit attributable to discontinued operations    60.8 8.1
The effect of the disposal on the individual assets and liabilities of the Group is shown below
     2008
     £m
Goodwill     17.4
Intangible assets     4.7
Property, plant and equipment     18.4
Inventories     22.5
Trade receivables     21.8
Employee benefits     (0.5)
Trade and other payables     (21.1)
Current tax liabilities     (1.0)
Deferred tax liabilities     (1.9)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities     60.3
Consideration received, satisfied in cash     131.1
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of     (9.9)
External debt disposed of     1.8
Foreign exchange translation differences recycled from reserves    2.3
Costs of disposal     (9.1)
Profit attributable to disposal     55.9
The cash flow analysis of the discontinued operations up until the date of disposal is as follows
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Cash flows from discontinued operations    11.0 14.8
Net cash used in operating activities    (4.1) (3.6)
Net cash used in investing activities    (5.2) (5.0)
Net cash from discontinued operations    1.7 6.2 88 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
30. Reconciliation of net cash flow movement to movement in net debt
    2008 2007
Group    £m £m
For the year ended 30th November
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents     19.3 1.9
Cash flow from increase in debt financing    (68.2) (4.4)
Prepaid bank arrangement fees    0.5 0.6
Additional bank arrangement fees in the year    0.6 —
Write-down and amortisation of bank arrangement fees     (0.7) (0.1)
Foreign exchange differences    (5.5)  (2.4)
Movement in net debt in the year    (54.0) (4.4)
Net debt at 1st December    (50.5) (46.1)
Net debt at 30th November    (104.5) (50.5)
    2008 2007
Company    £m £m
For the year ended 30th November
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents     24.1 (0.3)
Cash flow from increase in debt financing    (64.4) (9.0)
Prepaid bank arrangement fees    0.5 0.6
Additional bank arrangement fees in the year    0.6 —
Write-down and amortisation of bank arrangement fees    (0.7) (0.1)
Foreign exchange differences    (8.0) 1.6
Movement in net debt in the year    (47.9) (7.2)
Net debt at 1st December    (59.0) (51.8)
Net debt at 30th November    (106.9) (59.0)
31. Operating lease commitments
At 30th November, the Group had total non-cancellable commitments under operating leases as follows
 Group Company
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £m £m £m £m
Plant and equipment
Lease payments within 1 year  0.9 0.7 — —
Lease payments between 1 and 2 years  0.8 0.4 — —
Lease payments between 2 and 5 years  0.4 0.4 — —
  2.1 1.5 — —
Property
Lease payments within 1 year  2.9 1.9 0.3 0.3
Lease payments between 1 and 2 years  4.3 1.4 0.4 0.3
Lease payments between 2 and 5 years  7.7 4.6 0.9 1.0
Lease payments beyond 5 years  12.5 7.9 1.3 1.3
  27.4 15.8 2.9 2.9
32.  Post-balance sheet events
The Directors announced on 19th February 2009 that the Company proposes to raise approximately £30m (net of expenses) by way of a Placing and Open 
Offer of 132,489,559 Open Offer Shares at 25 pence per Ordinary Share.
The Placing and Open Offer has been fully underwritten by the Placing Agents. The Open Offer Shares to be issued pursuant to the Placing and Open 
Offer, when fully paid, will rank pari passu with the Ordinary Shares or, after the Capital Reorganisation, the New Ordinary Shares.
Before proceeding with the Placing and Open Offer, the Company’s Ordinary Share capital will be reorganised by means of the Capital Reorganisation 
which will involve: (i) the subdivision and reclassification of each issued Ordinary Share into one New Ordinary Share of 5 pence and one Deferred Share 
of 20 pence; and (ii) the subdivision of each authorised but unissued Ordinary Share into five New Ordinary Shares of 5 pence each. On completion of the 
Capital Reorganisation, each Ordinary Shareholder will hold one New Ordinary Share and one Deferred Share for each Ordinary Share currently held. 89 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
33.  Contingent liabilities
At the time of disposing of the Group’s North American packaging operations in March 2000, the Company entered into an Environmental Agreement with 
the purchasers of the business. The Environmental Agreement contains provisions regarding the remediation of known environmental contamination in 
the vicinity of one of the facilities which was sold in Burlington, Ontario. The Environmental Agreement expired in September 2006 and the Group has an 
ongoing liability only in respect of outstanding claims notified prior to this date. At 30th November 2008 an accrual of £0.2m (2007: £0.2m) remains in the 
Group’s balance sheet for the ongoing remediation costs which the Directors believe will be sufficient to satisfy payments due.
In addition, the Company has guaranteed certain obligations of its subsidiaries arising in the normal course of trade. At 30th November 2008, £nil 
guarantees were outstanding (2007: £nil).
34. Related party transactions 
The Company provides debt finance to various operating subsidiaries. A total of £204.0m was outstanding at 30th November 2008 (2007: £114.0m). The 
Company also borrows surplus funds from its subsidiaries. At 30th November 2008 the total amount payable to subsidiaries was £58.4m (2007: £41.8m).
The Company received income in respect of management services provided to its subsidiaries totalling £4.1m (2007: £2.9m).
The Company received interest income from related parties totalling £11.3m (2007: £5.0m) and accrued interest payable to related parties of £2.7m 
(2007: £2.4m).
The Company received dividend income from its subsidiaries totalling £nil (2007: £nil).
All related party transactions were conducted on an arm’s length basis.
The remuneration of key personnel (including Directors) of Low & Bonar PLC was
    2008 2007
    £m £m
Short-term benefits     1.7 1.6
Post-employment benefits    0.2 0.2
Share-based payments     1.5 0.7
    3.4 2.5
Key personnel (excluding Directors) comprised two Divisional Managing Directors (2007: two) who are directly responsible for the Group’s operating 
companies and one Director of New Business (2007: one). 
Full details of Directors’ Emoluments, pension benefits and interests are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 33 to 40.  90 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS  
CONTINUED
35. Group companies
Subsidiary undertakings Principal product areas Country %
Technical Textiles
Bonar Yarns & Fabrics Limited Specialist yarns Scotland 100.0*
Bonar Technical Fabrics NV Woven and non-woven fabrics Belgium 100.0
Bonar Emirates Technical Yarns Industries LLC  Specialist yarns United Arab Emirates 49.0
Yihua Bonar Yarns & Fabrics Co. Ltd Woven fabrics and specialist yarns People’s Republic of  60.0
  China
Anglo-Danish Fibre Industries Ltd (trading as ADFIL) Construction Fibres England 100.0
Bonar Xirion NV Specialist yarns Belgium 100.0
Geo-Tipptex Ipari es Kereskedelmi Kft Non-woven fabrics Hungary 100.0
Colbond BV Polymeric mats and composites The Netherlands 100.0
Colbond Geosynthetics Produktions GmbH Polymeric mats and composites Germany 100.0
Colbond Geosynthetics GmbH Polymeric mats and composites Germany 100.0
Colbond Geosynthetics SARL Polymeric mats and composites France 100.0
Colbond Inc Polymeric mats and composites USA 100.0
Bonar Technical Yarns Inc Specialist yarns USA 100.0
Mehler Texnologies Logistics GmbH Technical coated fabrics Germany 100.0
Mehler Texnologies GmbH Technical coated fabrics Germany 100.0
Mehler Texnologies s.r.l Technical coated fabrics Romania 100.0
Mehler Texnologies Ltd Technical coated fabrics UK 100.0
Mehler Texnologies S.p.A Technical coated fabrics Italy 100.0
Mehler Texnologies SARL Technical coated fabrics France 100.0
Mehler Texnologies Inc Technical coated fabrics USA 100.0
Mehler Texnologies S.r.o Technical coated fabrics Czech Republic 100.0
Mehler Texnologies Sp. Z o.o. Technical coated fabrics Poland 100.0
Mehler Texnologies Teknik Tekstil Ltd.Sirketi Technical coated fabrics Turkey 100.0
Mehler Texnologies S.I.A Technical coated fabrics Latvia 100.0
Holding companies
Bonar International Holdings Limited Holding company Scotland 100.0*
Bonar International Sarl Holding company Luxembourg 100.0
Low & Bonar (Nederland) BV Holding company The Netherlands 100.0
LCM Construction Products Ltd Holding company England 100.0*
Low & Bonar Technical Textiles Holding BV Holding company The Netherlands 100.0
Colbond Holding BV Holding company The Netherlands 100.0
Colbond (Germany) GmbH & Co.KG Holding company Germany 100.0
Colbond Verwaltungs GmbH  Holding company Germany 100.0
Colbond Nederland BV Holding company The Netherlands 100.0
Associated undertaking
CPW GmbH Intellectual property Germany 25.0
Notes
1 Unless otherwise stated, shares held are ordinary, common or unclassified.
2 The percentage of the nominal value of issued shares held is shown following the name of each Company.
3 An asterisk(*) indicates that the percentage of share capital shown is held directly by the Company.
4 A number of subsidiary undertakings, the trading results and assets of which are not material in relation to the Group as a whole, have been omitted 
from the above list. In compliance with the Companies Act 1985, particulars of these undertakings will be annexed to the next annual return.
5 The companies listed were incorporated in the country shown against each of them and that country is also the principal country of operation. 91 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
FIVE YEAR HISTORY  
   IFRS    UK GAAP
  
     Restated  Restated
  2008 2007 2006 2005 2005 2004
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue      
Continuing operations 335.2 210.3 127.2 77.7 77.7 59.3
Discontinued operations 96.0 101.5 97.3 149.3 149.3 142.4
Total (including discontinued operations) 431.2 311.8 224.5 227.0 227.0 201.7
Operating profit before amortisation 
and non-recurring items      
Continuing operations 26.7 14.1 6.3 4.4 3.7 2.1
Discontinued operations 10.4 12.0 10.7 9.4 9.9 10.9
Total (including discontinued operations) 37.1 26.1 17.0 13.8 13.6 13.0
Operating profit      
Continuing operations 19.1 11.1 1.8 3.6 2.8 2.1
Discontinued operations 9.0 11.7 10.3 8.1 8.3 9.9
Total (including discontinued operations) 28.1 22.8 12.1 11.7 11.1 12.0
      
Profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items      
Continuing operations 16.0 10.4 4.0 3.3 2.7 1.1
Discontinued operations 10.3 12.0 10.7 9.4 9.9 10.9
Total (including discontinued operations) 26.3 22.4 14.7 12.7 12.6 12.0
      
Profit before tax      
Continuing operations 2.2 7.4 (0.5) 2.5 2.1 1.1
Discontinued operations 64.8 11.7 10.3 (8.2) (28.7) 9.9
Total (including discontinued operations) 67.0 19.1 9.8 (5.7) (26.6) 11.0
      
Net (debt)/cash (104.5) (50.5) (46.1) 12.8 12.8 15.0
      
Per 25p ordinary share      
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (including 
discontinued operations) (p) 39.45 8.60 5.80 (6.39) (25.26) 6.23
Dividends per share (p) 1.925 4.85 4.38 4.17 4.17 3.99
      
Discontinued operations represent the Floors Division (discontinued in 2008) and the Plastics Division (discontinued in 2005).
Figures for 2004 are presented under UK GAAP. The Group adopted IFRS for the first time in the year ended 30th November 2006. The IFRS transition  date was 
1st December 2004 and accordingly only comparative information for the year ended 30th November 2005 has been restated on an IFRS basis.
The 2004 data is restated for the adoption of FRS 17 on 1st December 2004. 92 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
Annual General Meeting 6th May 2009
Announcements for results for the year ended 30th November 2009
Half year July 2009
Full year February 2010
Dividend payments for the year ended 30th November 2008
Ordinary shares — interim 2nd October 2008
Ordinary shares — final N/A
First, second and third cumulative preference stock 1st March 2009, 1st September 2009 15976 19/03/2009 Proof 5 15976 19/03/2009 Proof 5
A TRANSFORMED 
FOCUS 
Low & Bonar PLC is an international group 
manufacturing and supplying a wide range 
of products to the Performance Materials 
industry. Performance Materials is a global 
business, supplying yarns, fabrics and ﬁ bres 
to a broad range of end markets including 
civil engineering, building products, 
transport, sport and leisure, agriculture and 
other industrial applications 
 CONTENTS
BUSINESS OVERVIEW 01
HIGHLIGHTS 02
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 08
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S BUSINESS REVIEW 10
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW 16
DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS 20
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 22
MANAGEMENT OF RISK, HEALTH AND SAFETY 
AND THE ENVIRONMENT 25
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 28
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON REMUNERATION 33
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 41
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 42
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 44
BALANCE SHEETS 45
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 46
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT 47
STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE 48
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 49
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 55
FIVE YEAR HISTORY 91
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 92
15976LOWBONARCVR.indd   2 23/03/2009   08:15 15976 19/03/2009 Proof 5 15976 19/03/2009 Proof 5
LOW & BONAR PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
:: A Transformed Focus
ANNUAL REPORT 2008
LOW & BONAR PLC
 Low & Bonar PLC
9th Floor  Marble Arch Tower  
55 Bryanston Street  London  W1H 7AA
Tel 020 7535 3180  Fax 020 7535 3181
www.lowandbonar.com
15976LOWBONARCVR.indd   1 23/03/2009   08:15
