 Our strategy in action:
• Engage
• Integrate
• Perform
• Grow
Annual Report 2007
Anglo American plc
20 Carlton House Terrace
London SW1Y 5AN
England
Tel +44 (0)20 7968 8888
Fax +44 (0)20 7968 8500
Registered number 3564138
www.angloamerican.co.uk
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 About Anglo American
Anglo American aims  
to become the leading 
global mining company
We are committed to delivering 
operational excellence in a safe 
and responsible way, adding value 
for shareholders, customers, 
employees and the communities 
in which we operate
 About Anglo American
0 1 	 Highlights of the year
0 2 	 Our locations
0 2 	 Our operations
0 4 	 Chairman’s statement
0 6 	 Chief executive’s statement
1 0 	 Our strategy in action
14 Operating and financial review
15 Group overview
1 5 	 The Group
1 5 	 The businesses
1 7 	 Key performance indicators (KPIs)
1 8 	 Performance against KPIs
2 5 	 Resources
2 7 	 Group financial performance
31 Business unit overview
3 1 	 Platinum
3 5 	 Diamonds
3 8 	 Base Metals
4 3 	 Ferrous Metals
4 6 	 Coal
5 1 	 Industrial Minerals
5 4 	 Discontinued operations
55 Principal risks and uncertainties
58 Governance
5 8 	 The Board
6 0 	 Executive Committee
6 1 	 Directors’ report
6 5 	 Corporate governance
7 0 	 Remuneration report
8 3 	 Independent remuneration report review
8 4 	 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
85 Financial statements
8 6 	 	Independent auditors’ report
8 7 	 Principal statements
9 1 	 Notes to financial statements
136 Other information
1 3 6 	 	 Ore Reserves and Mineral  
Resources estimates
1 5 8 	Production statistics
1 6 3 	Exchange rates and commodity prices
1 6 4 	Key financial data
1 6 6 	Summary by business segment
1 6 7 	Reconciliations of reported earnings
1 6 8 	The business – an overview
1 7 0 	Shareholder information
1 7 1 	Other Anglo American publications
F r o n t 	 c o v e r : This year’s cover features the  
faces of 90 of our 100,000 employees who 
are helping to shape Anglo American’s future 
success. See page 172 for the names of 
those employees featured on our cover
Printed on Revive 50:50 Silk and Revive 100 
Uncoated paper. Revive 50:50 Silk is made from 
pre and post consumer waste and virgin wood fibre, 
Revive 100 Uncoated is made from 100% de-inked 
post consumer waste. Both have been independently 
certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest 
Stewardship Council). 
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, 
FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®
Designed by Addison Corporate Marketing Ltd Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 01
About
Anglo
American
Highlights of the year
Total Group includes both continuing and discontinued operations.
Underlying earnings represents total Group underlying earnings unless otherwise stated. Basis of calculation of underlying earnings is set out in note 12 to the financial statements. 
Operating profit represents total Group operating profit and includes share of associates’ operating profit (before share of associates’ tax and finance charges) and is before special items  
and remeasurements unless otherwise stated.
Operations considered core to the Group are Base Metals, Platinum, Ferrous Metals’ core businesses (Kumba Iron Ore, Scaw  Metals, Samancor and Minas-Rio), Coal and Diamonds.
Throughout this report 2003 is presented under UK GAAP . 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 results are presented under IFRS. Unless otherwise stated ‘$’ and ‘dollar’ denote US dollars.
•  Record total Group operating profit of  
$10.1 billion, with operating profit from  
core operations up 12% to $8.9 billion
•  Strong performances from Base Metals, 
Platinum, Ferrous Metals and Industrial Minerals
•  Uplifting our unique portfolio and driving 
significant growth
 Underlying earnings
$5.8bn
Earnings per share
$4.40
Operating profit
$10. 1 bn About
Anglo
American
02 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Our locations
Our operations
Business profile
•   The world’s leading primary producer  
of platinum, accounting for around  
37% of the world’s newly mined  
platinum output
Products and uses 
•  Primarily used in jewellery  
and autocatalysts
•  Also used in chemical, electrical,  
electronic, glass and petroleum  
industries and medical applications
Business profile
•  De Beers accounts for about 40%  
by value of global rough diamond  
production
•  The world’s largest supplier and  
marketer of gem diamonds
Products and uses 
•  About 30% of mined diamonds by 
weight are suitable for use in jewellery
•  Some natural stones are used for industrial 
purposes such as cutting, drilling and other 
applications 
Financial highlights
(1)(2)
  	 	 12 months 	 12 months
$ million  31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006
Operating profit  4 , 3 3 8  3,897
EBITDA  4 , 6 8 3 4,255
Net operating assets   4 , 9 8 9 4,599
Capital expenditure  6 1 0 315
Share of Group operating   
profit (%)  4 5 % 44%
Share of Group net     
operating assets (%)  1 9 % 22% 
Financial highlights
(1)
  	 	 12 months 	 12 months
$ million  31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006
Operating profit  2 , 6 9 7 2,398
EBITDA  3 , 1 5 5 2,845
Net operating assets   9 , 2 3 4 7,078
Capital expenditure  1 , 4 7 9 923
Share of Group operating 
profit (%)  2 8 % 27%
Share of Group net  
operating assets (%)  3 5 % 33%
Financial highlights
(1)(3)
  	 	 12 months 	 12 months
$ million  31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006
Share of associate’s   
operating profit  4 8 4 463
EBITDA  5 8 7 541
Group’s aggregate investment  
in De Beers  1 , 8 0 2 2,062
Share of Group operating    
profit (%)   5 % 5% 
Europe
Business profile
•  Comprises primarily copper, nickel,  
zinc and niobium operations
•  Operates in South America, southern  
Africa and Ireland
•  Copebrás produces phosphate fertilisers
Products and uses 
•  Copper is used mainly in wire and cable,  
as well as in brass, tubing and pipes
•  Zinc is chiefly employed in galvanising
•  Nickel is mostly used in the production  
of stainless steel
North America South America
Precious Base
Platinum Diamonds Base Metals
(1)
 Share of Group operating profit and share of Group net operating assets for both 2007 and 2006 is based on continuing operations and therefore excludes the contribution of Mondi and AngloGold Ashanti.
(2)
 In 2007, Copebrás and Yang Quarry were reclassified from Industrial Minerals to Base Metals and Coal respectively to align with internal management reporting. As such, the comparative data has been reclassified.
(3)
 De Beers is an independently managed associate of the Group.  
About
Anglo
American
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 03
See right
See below
Business profile
•   Anglo Coal is one of the world’s  
largest private sector coal producers  
and exporters
•   Its operations are in South Africa, Australia, 
Colombia, Venezuela and Canada
Products and uses 
•   About 40% of all electricity generated  
globally is powered by coal
•   Around 70% of the world’s steel industry  
uses coal and it is an important fuel for  
other industries
Business profile
•  Operations are mainly in South Africa,  
South America, Canada and Australia
•  Businesses produce iron ore, manganese 
and steel products for the mining and 
infrastructure sectors
Products and uses 
•   Iron ore is the basic raw material used in  
steel production
•   Manganese is a key component in steelmaking
•   Steel products serve the construction, railway, 
power generation, mining, cement, marine and 
offshore oil industries
Financial highlights
(1)
  	 	 12 months 	 12 months
$ million  31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006
Operating profit  1 , 4 3 2  1,360
EBITDA  1 , 5 6 1 1,560
Net operating assets   3 , 9 8 7 2,796
Capital expenditure  4 7 1 582 
Share of Group operating    
profit (%)  1 5 % 15%
Share of Group net     
operating assets (%)  1 5 % 13% 
Financial highlights
(1)(2)
  	 	 12 months 	 12 months
$ million  31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006
Operating profit  6 1 4 862
EBITDA  8 8 2 1,082
Net operating assets   3 , 9 8 4 2,870
Capital expenditure  1 , 0 5 2 782
Share of Group operating    
profit (%)  6 % 10%
Share of Group net     
operating assets (%)  1 5 % 13% 
Key
Co r p o r a t e	a n d	r e p r e s e n t a t i v e	o f fi c e s
	 O p e r a t i o n s	a n d	 N e w
	 e x p a n s i o n s	 p r o j e c t s
P l a t i n u m   
D i a m o n d s    
B a s e	M e t a l s    
Fe r r o u s	M e t a l s    
Co a l   
I n d u s t r i a l	M i n e r a l s    
		 R e g i o n s	i n	w h i c h	e x p l o r a t i o n	i s	c u r r e n t l y	
u n d e r	w a y 
Asia and Australasia
Business profile
•   Tarmac is the No. 1 UK producer of  
aggregates and asphalt and a leading  
producer of ready-mixed concrete
•   Its operations are primarily in the UK, 
continental Europe and the Middle East
Products and uses 
•   Tarmac is involved in the production of 
crushed rock, sand, gravel, concrete and 
mortar, lime, cement and concrete products
 
Financial highlights
(1)(2)
  	 	 12 months 	 12 months
$ million  31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006
Operating profit  4 7 4 317
EBITDA  7 3 2 539
Net operating assets   4 , 5 0 9 4,185
Capital expenditure  2 7 4 279
Share of Group operating    
profit (%)  5 % 4%
Share of Group net     
operating assets (%)  1 7 % 20% 
As one of the major diversified mining groups, 
Anglo American’s exploration activities cover 
many parts of the globe. In its constant search 
for minerals, Anglo American is currently 
prospecting in 25 countries. In addition to its 
focus on areas surrounding its existing mining 
operations, Anglo American is now looking at 
relatively unexplored new frontiers, including in 
the Arctic region through an arc stretching from 
Alaska to the Russian far east. During 2007, 
$283 million was spent on exploration –  
$77 million on base metals, $36 million on 
platinum, $32 million on coal, $12 million on 
ferrous metals and $126 million by De Beers.
Bulk 
Ferrous Metals Coal Industrial Minerals
Africa About
Anglo
American
04 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Chairman’s statement
“ During 2007, Anglo American made great  
progress in becoming a focused mining  
company and showed it is prepared to pursue  
new business opportunities more aggressively  
in order to seek out and unlock value”  
About
Anglo
American
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 05
	 s e e 	 a l s o
p 14
	 O p e r a t i n g 	 a n d 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 r e v i e w
p61
	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e p o r t
Anglo American delivered another exceptional 
financial performance in 2007. We made 
significant progress in achieving our strategic 
objective of becoming a focused mining group, 
principally through the demerger of Mondi,  
the decision to sell Tarmac, our construction 
materials business, and the further reduction  
in our holdings in AngloGold Ashanti and 
Tongaat-Hulett. This greater focus provided a 
strong platform for the Group to move into a 
more expansionary mode where value creating 
opportunities exist.
Given the greater homogeneity between 
our mining businesses, important steps are 
being taken to realise the benefits of a  
‘One Anglo’ approach in relation to 
procurement, support services, talent and 
knowledge management.
 2007 was another disappointing year for 
safety, with 40 fatalities – a reduction of only 
four over the prior year. The Board strongly 
endorsed the much higher profile on safety 
adopted by our new chief executive.  
Cynthia Carroll has succeeded in communicating  
that ‘business as usual’ is not an acceptable 
approach in the face of the deaths and injuries 
occurring at some of our operations. There may 
be some loss of production in the short term, 
but this is a sacrifice well worth making if it 
produces a safety performance based upon a 
culture of care and respect for our workforce 
and contractors. Moreover, we believe that  
safe operations generally excel in terms of 
efficiency and productivity. There were signs  
of improvement in the second half of the year,  
but it is too early to say if this is sustainable.
Changing global economy
The growth of China, India and other emerging 
markets is transforming the balance of power  
in the world economy at an unprecedented rate. 
This will involve the emergence of more 
customers and competitors as well as potential 
partners from these countries. Given our  
well-established presence in China and our 
commitment to develop projects there, we are 
well placed to build from this platform. 
High commodity prices have sharpened  
the competition between stakeholders – 
governments, communities, unions, suppliers – 
to secure a bigger share of the current market 
upside. We have seen changes in the fiscal 
regime of a number of countries to reflect this. 
As part of our empowerment transactions  
in South Africa we have sought to encourage 
equity participation by local communities  
and employees.
Benefits to communities
Throughout the world we are seeking to 
increase the beneficial development impacts of 
our operations. I would highlight two strands of 
work. Firstly, our Socio-Economic Assessment 
Toolbox (SEAT) process which progressed to  
an updated version in 2007. This improves the 
understanding of people in our operations of the 
needs and priorities of their local communities 
and enables them to make a greater contribution 
to local development. Secondly, we are seeking 
to replicate the success of our South African 
enterprise development unit, Anglo Zimele.  
This is already being achieved in Chile where 
our microfinance initiative helped over  
900 business people to get established last 
year. During 2008, we hope to establish a 
similar initiative in Brazil.
However, if companies are to have a 
continuing incentive to invest and to develop 
deposits in riskier jurisdictions, all stakeholders 
need to recall the cyclical nature of our business 
and the current intense cost pressures facing 
the industry. Benefit sharing models have to 
reflect periods of market weakness as well  
as the good times.
The current commodity cycle has been 
driven by both strong demand and limited 
supply. Demand has been strong against a 
backdrop of synchronised expansion across the 
major economies and has been fuelled by rapid 
urbanisation in China.
Significant supply constraints include over-
heating in the supply chain and the fact that 
projects are typically taking longer to secure the 
necessary consents. But a crucial learning is the 
role that sustainable development concepts will 
play as we bring new operations to account. 
Thus, we find ourselves giving increasing 
attention to skills, energy security and climate 
change, water shortages and the legacy in a 
number of countries of under-investment in 
critical infrastructure.
In response to skills shortages, we are 
investing strongly in scholarships, bursaries  
and internships, pre-employment training and  
in raising the educational attainments of some 
of our existing workforce to enable them  
to progress. For the longer term, the Anglo 
American-funded Epoch and Optima trusts have 
identified the teaching of maths and science in 
South African schools as a priority – resulting  
in an annual injection of approximately  
$5 million of additional funds.
Energy and water challenges
Last year will be seen as the year when 
electricity supplies began to move noticeably 
out of balance with demand in a number  
of important countries where we operate, 
including South Africa, Chile and Brazil. The 
ability to resolve these shortfalls is constrained 
by the high costs of construction and limited 
availability of key capital goods. Thus, a key 
objective is to achieve a step-change in our 
energy efficiency. This will, in turn, contribute 
to our environmental objective of reducing our 
carbon footprint – alongside abatement projects 
such as using methane in electricity generation 
or carbon capture and storage in Australia;  
co-investment in the FutureGen project in the 
US; and taking forward Clean Development 
Mechanism projects.
Water shortages have become more 
pronounced in a number of important mining 
countries. This requires us to innovate. In  
South Africa, for example, it has led to the 
establishment of the Emalahleni water 
treatment plant which converts waste mine 
water into water suitable for domestic and 
industrial uses. We also need to improve  
the efficiency of our production processes.  
An example of this is our Los Bronces expansion 
project in Chile where we will reduce our use  
of fresh water by some 40% per tonne of 
copper produced.
Board and employees
In regard to Board membership, I would like to 
note the departure of Tony Trahar who stepped 
down as chief executive in March; David Hathorn, 
chief executive of Mondi; Simon Thompson, 
executive director of Anglo American plc; and of 
Bobby Godsell, who retired last year as chief 
executive of AngloGold Ashanti and who is 
stepping down from our Board after many years’ 
service to the Group in both executive and non-
executive roles. Ralph Alexander also retired as a 
non-executive director as a result of other work 
commitments. I would like to record our thanks to 
each of them. As part of the process of refreshing 
the Board, I am pleased that Sir CK Chow has 
agreed to submit himself for election as a director 
at the AGM.
In closing, I would like to thank our employees 
for their work in delivering a further set of 
impressive results and in contributing to the 
countries and communities where we work. ■
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart
Chairman About
Anglo
American
06 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Chief executive’s statement
“ 2007 was a year of change for our business – one  
in which we continued to deliver strong returns for 
shareholders while also streamlining our business  
and laying the foundations for greater efficiency 
gains, as well as stronger growth into the future”  
About
Anglo
American
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 07
 ExPAn Ding OUr AssEt BAsE
During 2007, we were active in 
identifying and acquiring major new 
projects, particularly copper and iron 
ore, to deliver significant volume  
growth over the next decade
•  Potential copper output  
of 1.6 Mtpa by 2016
•  Potential iron ore output  
of 150 Mtpa by 2017
 	
15%
I n c r e a s e 	 i n 	 fi n a l 	 d i v i d e n d
	 2 0 0 7 	 h i g h l i g h t s
$12bn
	 P r o j e c t s 	 u n d e r 	 d e v e l o p m e n t
Record financial performance
In my first year as chief executive, I am pleased 
to report a record financial performance by 
Anglo American. We achieved our highest ever 
operating profit of $10.1 billion and underlying 
earnings of $5.8 billion, with continued strong 
cash generation. Once again, we are announcing 
an increased final dividend – 86 US cents per 
share, up 15% on 2006.
The strength of our performance was due to 
improved production volumes of ferrous metals, 
copper and zinc, an increased focus on 
operational discipline and a continuation of the 
supportive trading environment. During 2007, 
high prices were realised for most of the Group’s 
commodities, although these benefits were 
partially offset by adverse currency movements, 
supply-side constraints and ongoing pressure 
on costs across the mining sector. 
New approach to safety
2007 marked a turning point in our approach to 
safety. Our past and current number of 
fatalities and injuries is simply unacceptable.  
I strongly believe that optimally run businesses 
have good safety records. 
We have launched a series of new 
initiatives to drive consistent safety messages 
and practices across our business. 
We have shown that we are prepared to do 
what is necessary to meet this challenge head 
on by shutting down mine shafts where safety 
performance has not been up to standard, to 
retrain affected employees and to conduct a 
thorough investigation of operating conditions. 
Significant progress was made between the 
first and second halves of the year and I expect 
our operations to build upon this momentum  
in 2008.
Delivering our strategic 
objectives
I have been very clear about my ambition for 
Anglo American – our goal is to become the 
leading global mining company. 
The year under review has seen a 
combination of strategic restructuring and a 
period of building from a position of strength, 
including the identification and execution of 
opportunities to drive new growth and value.
The restructuring of Anglo American is 
almost complete and it is now that we can focus 
on the operational improvements that will be 
delivered by our asset optimisation programme 
and the cultural change that we are implementing 
across the Group.
During the year, we made good strategic 
progress. In May, we disposed of our remaining 
29% holding in Highveld Steel and Vanadium, 
and, in June, the unbundling of Hulamin from 
Tongaat-Hulett was completed.
Mondi, our paper and packaging business, 
was demerged in early July and established  
as a dual-listed company on the London and 
Johannesburg stock exchanges. In line with our 
intention to ultimately exit AngloGold Ashanti, 
we reduced our holding to 16.6%, realising in 
excess of $2.9 billion. 
In August, we announced plans to sell 
Tarmac. Tarmac has a leading position in the  
UK construction materials industry, and is well 
positioned in certain key markets in continental 
Europe and the Middle East. Tarmac had a  
very strong operational performance in 2007, 
with a number of its business improvement 
initiatives starting to make a significant impact. 
It is expected that the performance of Tarmac 
will continue to underpin a competitive  
sale process; however, it has been decided  
not to launch the marketing phase of the  
sale process until current credit market 
conditions improve.
We also made progress during 2007 in 
meeting the employment equity and black 
economic empowerment requirements of the 
South African Mining Charter, including 
groundbreaking equity participation 
arrangements in Anglo Platinum’s assets.
In February 2008, the South African 
Department of Minerals and Energy confirmed  
it would award Anglo American with all its new 
order mining rights, subject to completion of 
outstanding documentation, by 31 March 2008. 
This is a landmark achievement for the Group 
and for the many black empowered businesses 
with which we are partnered. 
Expanding our asset base
During 2007, we were active in identifying  
and acquiring major new projects, particularly 
copper and iron ore, to deliver significant 
volume growth over the next decade. 
The Group has a tremendous project 
pipeline, one of the strongest in the sector, 
building on our unique portfolio of existing 
assets and delivering considerable organic 
growth potential. We have a number of major 
projects under development, involving 
investment of some $12 billion across all our 
businesses. In addition, we have a further  
$29 billion of projects under consideration. 
2008 will also see our planned expansions 
delivering significant new production in iron  
ore and coal. About
Anglo
American
08 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Chief executive’s statement
Several projects were approved in Anglo 
Platinum during the year, in particular the  
$279 million expansion at the base metals 
refinery, the $139 million Townlands ore 
replacement project and the $188 million 
Mainstream inert grind projects. The $692 million 
PPRust North expansion project is in progress 
and will mill an additional 600,000 tonnes of  
ore per month.
Anglo Coal has approved expansion 
programmes in both South Africa and Australia. 
The recently approved $505 million, 6.6 million 
tonnes per annum (Mtpa) Zondagsfontein 
project will form an important component of 
plans to increase Anglo Coal’s South African 
production by 50% to around the 90 Mtpa  
level by 2015. 
In November we announced the approval of 
the $1.7 billion expansion of Los Bronces in Chile. 
First production is scheduled for 2011 and will 
increase copper production to an initial level 
exceeding 400,000 tpa, making Los Bronces one 
of the ten largest copper mines in the world. Also 
in Chile, a two phase expansion at Collahuasi is 
being considered. In Brazil, the Barro Alto project is 
on schedule to boost the Group’s nickel output, 
with first production due in 2010.
At Kumba Iron Ore, the commissioning  
of the $754 million, 13 Mtpa Sishen Expansion 
Project commenced during the year, with ramp 
up to full production anticipated in 2009. 
In Canada’s Northwest Territories,  
De Beers’ Snap Lake, the country’s only 
underground diamond mine, delivered its first 
diamonds in October and plans to produce 
approximately 1.6 million carats per annum. 
In Botswana, De Beers is reviewing a number  
of development opportunities. 
Turning to acquisitions, we made 
considerable progress towards achieving our aim 
of becoming a significant player in the global 
seaborne iron ore trade. In July, we purchased a 
49% stake in the MMX Minas-Rio iron ore 
project in Brazil for an effective price of  
$1.15 billion, plus a potential payment of  
up to $600 million if certain criteria are met. 
Furthermore, in January 2008, Anglo American 
announced that it was in exclusive discussions 
with MMX’s majority shareholder to acquire 
control of the Minas-Rio project and the Amapá 
iron ore mine for approximately $5.5 billion if  
we acquire 100% of the interest held by MMX  
in these assets.
In April, we announced the acquisition of  
the Michiquillay copper project in northern Peru 
for $403 million. Michiquillay is one of the 
largest undeveloped copper deposits in the 
world. This is our second major investment in 
Peru where the feasibility study for the 
Quellaveco copper deposit in the south of the 
country is at an advanced stage. 
In July, we acquired a 50% stake in the 
Pebble copper project in Alaska for a staged 
cash investment of $1.4 billion. The key assets 
of the project, which is co-owned by Northern 
Dynasty Minerals, are its open pit Pebble West 
deposit and the deeper and higher grade Pebble 
East deposit. The Pebble resources rank among 
“ In 2007, we made 
considerable progress  
towards achieving our aim  
of becoming a significant 
player in the global 
seaborne iron ore trade”
Below: Round-the-clock operations at 
Kumba’s Sishen open pit, which yielded 
about 30 million tonnes of iron ore in 2007  
About
Anglo
American
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 09
Outlook
The global economic outlook for 2008 is clouded 
by uncertainty. While it seems clear that US 
economic activity will be weaker in 2008 than 
in recent years, it is less clear how economic 
growth will be affected in the rest of the world, 
especially in those emerging markets whose 
growth has been largely responsible for the strong 
demand that has underpinned commodity prices. 
In South Africa, electrical power supply 
problems are causing disruption to mining 
operations across the country. At present, it is 
difficult to accurately forecast the medium term 
impact of power shortages on Anglo American’s 
business. We are working with Eskom and  
the South African government to implement 
solutions. 
Global commodity demand remains strong 
and seems likely to remain so throughout 2008. 
Commodity supply worldwide continues to be 
constrained by skills shortages, rising capital 
and operating costs, longer permitting processes 
and strong exchange rates in many of the 
countries where key operations are located. 
Industry inventories are therefore likely to 
remain low and continue to underpin prices. 
The medium to long term secular trend of 
strong commodity demand growth – embracing, 
as it does, the industrialisation and urbanisation 
of developing nations, especially China and 
India – will continue to support prices over  
a longer time horizon.
As a result, significant new mining 
investments will be needed to satisfy that 
demand. Anglo American is well placed to 
benefit from this favourable backdrop as  
the Group continues to realise its exciting 
growth prospects. ■
Cynthia Carroll
Chief executive
	 2 0 0 7 	 h i g h l i g h t s
71 %
	 P a r t i c i p a t i o n 	 r a t e 	 f o r 	 H I V / A I D S 	 V C T	
the world’s most important accumulations of 
copper, gold and molybdenum.
In both Peru and Alaska, a key priority is  
to build supportive relationships with local 
communities, consistent with our policy of 
developing and operating projects to the highest 
standards and to promote truly sustainable 
development.
Close to year end we announced the 
acquisition of a 70% interest, for $620 million, 
in the Foxleigh coal mine in Australia, which 
adjoins our German Creek and Lake Lindsay 
operations.
We are also widening our horizons 
geographically. In an exciting recent development, 
Anglo American and China Development  
Bank have entered into a Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU). Anglo American is 
actively looking for further projects in China and 
the MOU represents a long term commitment 
from both parties to establish a strategic 
relationship to identify and develop a pipeline of 
mining projects in China, Africa and elsewhere.
Driving operational excellence
The mining industry continues to experience 
significant cost pressures across the supply 
chain, including freight, transportation, fuel and 
consumables. In spite of the cost pressures, we 
achieved $380 million in cost savings, synergies, 
efficiencies and procurement, and we managed 
to contain our growth in cash costs to 4%  
above inflation.
Above and beyond these cost-saving 
activities, we are bringing greater rigour to our 
operating platform by introducing a value based 
management (VBM) methodology across all our 
businesses. A pilot project has been completed 
in Anglo Coal and we are now rolling VBM out 
into the other businesses. In addition, an asset 
optimisation initiative will maximise operational 
efficiencies at site level and allow us to benchmark 
our performance and spread best practices.
We have carried out a comprehensive 
review to define the best approach for delivering 
key business support functions and, as a result, 
we have decided to establish three shared 
services centres providing common accounting 
and employee services, located in existing 
offices in Asia Pacific, Latin America and South 
Africa. We have also launched a centralised 
procurement programme to maximise the benefits 
of being a global operator. Initial projections 
indicate that we shall achieve $1 billion worth  
of procurement and shared services savings  
in the next three years.
Sustainable development
I am proud to say that we continue to be a 
sector leader in terms of our approach to 
sustainable development. We are seeking  
to play our part in addressing the challenges  
of climate change by improving our energy 
efficiency, reducing our greenhouse gas 
emissions, contributing to the development  
of clean coal technologies and through our 
involvement in public-policy discussions. 
Our internationally recognised  
Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT) 
continues to help us understand the 
perspectives and concerns of the communities 
close to our operations. This year we have made 
a three-yearly SEAT assessment mandatory for 
all our major operations. 
We are gaining ground in the fight against 
HIV and AIDS with our successful voluntary 
counselling and testing (VCT) and treatment 
programme. At a number of our collieries in South 
Africa, the VCT participation rate exceeds 90%, 
while the overall Group figure continues to climb 
and had reached 71% by the end of 2007. 
Important progress was also made this year in 
developing a new framework of occupational 
health policies called The Anglo Occupational 
Health Way.
In 2007, we were an active voice in the 
development and promotion of the Extractive 
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which 
supports improved governance in resource-rich 
countries, representing the mining sector on the 
EITI’s board. 
We were also involved in other multi-
stakeholder initiatives, including the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights and 
the Investment Climate Facility for Africa. We 
continue to be involved in and to give our full 
support to the UN Global Compact. We report 
on progress implementing the principles in our 
Report to Society in accordance with the 
externally verified Global Reporting Initiative.
We have made clear our commitment to 
regular engagement with NGOs at a local, 
national and international level. We signed 
association agreements with Fauna and Flora 
International on biodiversity issues and with 
CARE International on development challenges. 
“ In spite of the cost 
pressures, we achieved 
$380 million in cost 
savings, synergies, 
efficiencies and 
procurement”
n e x t 	 s e c t i o n :
How Anglo American’s  
ambition to become the  
leading mining company  
is being realised About
Anglo
American
10 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Integration
As Anglo American continues to extend its 
reach across the globe and diversifies its mining 
asset base, the organisation is being reshaped 
to ensure we are able to meet the sustained 
demand for the commodities we mine.
A high degree of decentralisation through 
autonomous business units is making way for a 
new ‘One Anglo’ approach. This concept allows 
for greater sharing of talent, expertise and 
knowledge across the Group and, as a result, 
our culture is changing as we move towards 
becoming a single, integrated organisation. 
One Anglo involves consistently applying a 
common framework of values and standards; 
putting the structures in place to foster greater 
knowledge-sharing; and leveraging our scale 
through shared services. 
Safety
Nowhere is this integrated concept more 
important than in our approach to safety.  
The safety of all our employees is paramount. 
Our vision of ‘zero harm’, which was endorsed 
in 2007 by all our businesses and their 
leadership teams, is based on three clear 
principles: all injuries are preventable; all 
necessary steps must be taken to learn from 
incidents in order to prevent reoccurrence; and 
common, simple non-negotiable standards must 
be consistently applied. 
Key to realising this vision is The Anglo Safety 
Way, a global framework of risk management 
systems and standards, which is being rolled 
out across the business. This is being supported 
by greater communication and cross-fertilisation 
of ideas and experiences around safety within and 
between the Group’s businesses, as well as other 
organisations in mining and related industries.
People
The increasing technological sophistication  
of mining, combined with a serious skills 
shortage in the current competitive market,  
has further underlined the importance we 
already attach to retaining our talent through 
appropriate reward, talent development and 
people management activities. 
Several Group-wide One Anglo initiatives 
have provided impetus in these areas. The 
introduction of a broad banding system 
throughout the businesses underpins our move 
towards more consistent and competitive 
regional reward strategies and a common 
performance management process. It has also 
been a key enabler for the introduction of an 
improved talent tracking system, an integrated 
internal and external vacancy management 
system, and the development of Group-wide 
people information and shared services 
systems. 
Our global leadership development portfolio 
has been extended during the year and going 
forward there will be an increased focus on 
common standards in terms of curriculum and 
delivery for all our management development 
programmes across the Group.
Shared services
Applying common policies, processes and 
systems, as well as creating a One Anglo 
mindset among our employees, will also  
be delivered through our shared services 
initiative.
We will create three shared services centres 
based in existing offices in Asia Pacific, Latin 
America (serving the whole of the Americas) 
and South Africa (serving Africa and Europe). 
The centres will provide common accounting 
and employee services.
We are focusing on improvement  
in four key areas – integration,  
performance, growth and engagement
Our strategy
action
in  
About
Anglo
American
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 11
Performance
As part of our strategy to become the leading 
global mining company, Anglo American has 
disposed of a number of non-core assets and is 
focusing on ensuring that its assets have 
economies of scale, long lives, are in the lowest 
quartile in terms of costs and have the potential 
to give the Group critical mass in each of our 
commodities.
Today, Anglo American is centred around 
three core commodity categories – precious 
(with our unique platinum and diamond assets),  
base and bulk.
We are now progressing into the second 
phase of our strategy, where we are seeking  
to maximise the value we derive from each of 
our assets. 
Asset optimisation
We are identifying, and seeking to close, any 
value gaps between the performance of our 
operations and the industry’s best in class. 
To this effect, a major asset optimisation 
programme is under way across our business 
units. This initiative seeks to identify the full 
potential of each operation and put programmes 
in place to manage actual performance towards 
this goal. This has involved a rigorous, bottom-
up analysis of our assets and operations  
and their subsequent benchmarking against  
our peers to bring our operations up to the  
highest level. 
Supply chain efficiencies
Taking an integrated global approach to 
procurement while maximising efficiencies 
through the supply chain are other ways we  
are looking to drive performance. 
We have made major improvements with 
progressively more demanding efficiency 
targets. In 2007, the Group achieved supply 
chain efficiencies of almost $200 million.  
We are working closely with our suppliers to 
eliminate waste from all areas of our supply 
chain by developing a detailed understanding  
of cost drivers, standardising requirements and 
leveraging economies of scale across the Group. 
In addition, we are optimising our sourcing 
footprint by increasing purchasing from lower 
In-house technological  
capability augmented  
by strategic partnerships
I n 	 c o n t r a s t 	 t o 	 m a n y 	 m i n i n g 	 i n d u s t r y 	 p e e r s ,	 	
An g l o 	 A m e r ic a n 	 f o r 	 m a n y 	 y ea r s 	 h a s 	 b e e n	
d i s t i n g u i s h e d 	 b y 	 i t s 	 f o r m id a b l e 	 i n - h ou s e 	 t e ch n ic a l	
c a p a c i t y , 	 w i t h 	 t h e 	 a i m 	 o f 	 m a i n t a i n i n g 	 a 	 t e ch n o l o g ic a l	
e d g e 	 a n d, 	 i n 	 d oi n g 	 s o , 	 e n h a n c i n g 	 s h a r e h o l d e r 	 v a l u e .	
B a s e d 	 o n 	 t w o 	 m a i n 	 i n t e r n a l 	 u n i t s , 	 T e ch n ic a l 	 a n d	
R e s ea r ch , 	 a n d 	 e n h a n c e d 	 b y 	 a 	 r a n g e 	 o f 	 p a r t n e r e d	
t e ch n o l o g ie s , 	 t h e 	 G r ou p 	 h a s 	 b e c o m e 	 a n 	 i n d u s t r y	
s t a n d a r d - s et t e r 	 i n 	 fi n d i n g , 	 e x t r a c t i n g 	 a n d 	 r e fi n i n g	
m i n e r a l s . 	 F o r 	 e x a m p l e , 	 a d v a n c e d 	 a i r b o r n e	
e l e c t r o m a g n et ic 	 t e ch n i q u e s 	 a n d 	 s u p e r c o n d u c t i n g	
q u a n t u m 	 i n t e r f e r e n c e 	 d e v ic e s 	 h a v e 	 id e n t ifi e d	
pr o s p e c t i v e 	 m i n e r a l 	 d e p o s i t s ; 	 i n 	 p a r t n e r s h i p 	 w i t h	
e x t e r n a l 	 s p e c i a l i s t s , 	 a 	 n e w 	 s o l v e n t - e x t r a c t io n 	 a n d	
e l e c t r o - w i n n i n g 	 pr o c e s s 	 w a s 	 d e v e l o p e d 	 t o 	 y ie l d 	 zi n c	
o r e ; 	 wh i l e 	 r o b o t 	 l a b o r a t o r ie s 	 ( r ig h t ) 	 a t 	 An g l o	
P l a t i n u m ’ s 	 c o n c e n t r a t o r s 	 a n d 	 s m e l t e r s 	 h a v e 	 g r ea t l y	
r e d u c e d 	 a s s a y - a s s e s s m e n t 	 t i m e .	
cost countries such as China, while also 
continuing to develop small and medium sized 
entrepreneurs close to existing operations. 
In recent years, many parts of the mining 
industry supply chain have been operating at  
or close to full capacity, resulting in constraints 
and delays for equipment and services. We are 
mitigating these issues by developing clear 
plans and engaging more effectively with our 
suppliers. For example, we are entering 
innovative longer term supply arrangements 
with suppliers to secure tyres for our existing 
operations and new projects.  About
Anglo
American
12 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Growth
Anglo American has one of the strongest and 
highest quality project pipelines in world mining, 
which will deliver substantial volume growth. 
Currently under development are projects 
spanning a number of countries, totalling  
$12 billion. Further out, and encompassing 
South Africa, Chile, Peru, Brazil, Alaska and 
Canada, are an additional $29 billion of projects 
under consideration.
Anglo Platinum has a major expansion  
and replacement programme that will deliver 
progressively rising quantities of refined 
platinum, as well as other platinum group 
metals and nickel, through to 2015. 
Coal is involved in a number of projects.  
In South Africa, the $505 million Zondagsfontein 
project, to deliver 6.6 million tonnes of coal 
annually from 2010, has been given the  
go-ahead. In Australia, Dawson and Lake  
Lindsay will add an additional 9.7 Mtpa at  
full production.
In Base Metals, the $1.5 billion Barro Alto 
expansion in Brazil is making good progress 
and, when fully on stream in 2011, will boost 
Anglo American’s total attributable nickel 
production to an average of around  
100,000 tonnes a year. 
Los Bronces’ $1.7 billion expansion in Chile 
will almost double annual copper production at 
the mine to an initial production level exceeding  
400,000 tonnes per annum, making it one  
of the ten largest copper mines in the world  
on completion of the expansion in 2011.
In Ferrous Metals, Kumba Iron Ore’s  
$754 million Sishen Expansion Project produced 
first commercial output in 2007 and is 
anticipated to ramp up to design capacity in 2009. 
De Beers has two projects, both in Canada, 
and with a collective cost of around $2 billion,  
at various stages of development. Snap Lake,  
De Beers’ first mine in the country, produced its 
first diamonds in October and is ramping up to 
full output later this year. A second mine, Victor, 
is planned to enter production by mid-2008.
Diversity: key to success 
A s 	 m i n i n g 	 t e ch n o l o g ie s 	 b e c o m e 	 m o r e 	 s o p h i s t ic a t e d	
a n d 	 s k i l l s 	 s h o r t a g e s 	 a r e 	 f u e l l e d 	 b y 	 b o o m 	 c o n d i t io n s	 	
i n 	 t h e 	 i n d u s t r y , 	 w e 	 a r e 	 c o n s t a n t l y 	 l o o k i n g 	 a t	
a l t e r n a t i v e 	 w a y s 	 o f 	 m e et i n g 	 t h e 	 r e s ou r c i n g 	 n e e d s	 	
o f 	 ou r 	 e xp a n d i n g 	 b u s i n e s s . 	 T h r ou g h 	 ou r 	 i n v e s t m e n t	
i n 	 ou r 	 b u r s a r y 	 a n d 	 t r a i n e e 	 pr o g r a m m e s , 	 w e 	 h a v e	
a t t r a c t e d 	 o v e r 	 4 , 0 0 0 	 i n d i v id u a l s 	 i n t o 	 ou r 	 ea r l y 	 c a r e e r	
pi p e l i n e , 	 s o m e 	 d r a w n 	 f r o m 	 l o c a l 	 c o m m u n i t ie s 	 a n d	
o t h e r s 	 f r o m 	 f u r t h e r 	 a fi e l d.
A 	 k e y 	 e l e m e n t 	 o f 	 ou r 	 f u t u r e 	 s u c c e s s 	 w i l l 	 r e s t 	 o n	
h o w 	 w e l l 	 w e 	 a t t r a c t , 	 r et a i n 	 a n d 	 r e w a r d 	 w o m e n 	 – 	 wh o	
a r e 	 s t i l l 	 r e pr e s e n t e d 	 i n 	 o n l y 	 m o d e s t 	 n u m b e r s . 	 An g l o	
A m e r i c a n 	 i s 	 a i m i n g 	 t o 	 s t e a d i l y 	 i n c r e a s e 	 t h e 	 p r o p o r t i o n 	 o f	
w o me n 	 t hr o ug ho u t 	 i t s 	 r a n k s 	 l i k e 	 g e o l o gi s t 	 D a n i a 	 T r i s t á	
( r ig h t ) 	 f r o m 	 ou r 	 M a n t o s 	 B l a n c o s 	 o p e r a t io n 	 i n 	 C h i l e .
Our strategy in action continued  
About
Anglo
American
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 13
Acquisitions and new  
business relationships
Complementing Anglo American’s programme 
of organic growth, the Group is building its 
position in a number of key commodities, in 
particular copper and iron ore, through strategic 
value enhancing acquisitions.
The aim of becoming a significant player  
in the highly consolidated iron ore industry,  
with its high barriers to entry, has been boosted 
by the acquisition of 49% in the advanced 
MMX Minas-Rio project in Brazil. Phase 1 of the 
mine is expected to cost $3.46 billion, with total 
projected output of 26.5 million tonnes of  
iron ore per annum by the end of the decade. 
The Minas-Rio project, the Amapá mine and  
the expansions at Kumba’s Sishen mine will 
contribute towards the goal of lifting the 
Group’s annual iron ore output to 150 million 
tonnes by 2017.
The Group increased its copper profile with 
its successful tender for the Michiquillay project 
in Peru and by becoming a 50% partner,  
with Northern Dynasty, in the copper-gold-
molybdenum Pebble project in Alaska for a 
staged cash investment of $1.425 billion. If 
approval is secured for Quellaveco in Peru, these 
three projects, combined with the Los Bronces 
and Collahuasi expansions, could see the Group’s 
attributable copper production rising to around 
1.6 million tonnes a year by 2016. 
The acquisition of a 70% stake in the 
Foxleigh coal mine in Australia for $620 million 
will further support our coal ambitions.
Recently, Anglo American and China 
Development Bank entered into a Memorandum 
of Understanding (MOU). The MOU represents 
a long term mutual commitment to establish  
a partnership to identify and develop mining 
projects in China, Africa and other parts of  
the world.
Engagement
Partnerships for a more  
sustainable future
At Anglo American, we believe that the pursuit 
of sustainable development goes hand in hand 
with best business practice. By our responsible 
custodianship of valuable resource endowments, 
which often include scarce water supplies, and 
our insistence on good governance, we hope  
to demonstrate to host governments and 
communities that resources, when developed 
wisely, can be of widespread ongoing benefit  
to their countries. 
Through finding ways to maximise local 
economic linkages and benefits – for example, 
employing a majority of local people, 
establishing supply chain initiatives and 
investing in social and physical infrastructure – 
and careful management of social and 
environmental impacts, we seek to develop 
positive outcomes as a result of our presence.
Leading community engagement initiatives 
is our Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox 
(SEAT). Anglo American is also an active 
member of the UN Global Compact, the 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative  
and the round table on the Voluntary Principles 
on Security and Human Rights. We are also 
working to be a force for development through 
the Investment Climate Facility for Africa, 
Business Action for Africa, the International 
Council for Mining & Metals and the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development. 
In addition, Anglo American has taken steps 
towards building a corporate partnership with 
the environmental NGO Fauna and Flora 
International (FFI). Anglo American and FFI 
intend to work together to craft a Biodiversity 
Performance Standard that will govern the 
approach to diversity management throughout 
the Group’s operations.
Our energy partnerships
Anglo American is broadening its range of 
relationships in the energy field. These are 
helping to create the potential for the Group to 
expand into downstream areas closely related 
to its core business. Through such relationships, 
risk can be shared and there is the mutual 
opportunity of accessing each other’s 
complementary resources, including markets, 
technologies and capital.
Anglo American is involved with various 
parties in a number of energy ventures, 
including the commercialisation of fuel cell 
technology, the capture and commercial sale  
of methane from its coal mines, as well as  
in researching integrated carbon capture and 
storage projects. The Group is a member of the 
FutureGen Industrial Alliance, which consists of 
major energy and mining companies working in 
partnership with the US Department of Energy 
(DOE) to design, construct and operate the 
world’s first ‘near zero emissions’ coal-fuelled 
power generation plant. Although in January 
2008, the DOE announced an intention to 
establish an alternative programme, the Alliance 
intends to continue to work with the US 
Administration, Congress and other stakeholders 
to advance the project. Anglo American has 
also formed a Clean Coal Energy Alliance to 
develop the Monash brown coal to liquids 
project in Australia. In China, Anglo American, 
the Shaanxi Coalfield Geological Bureau and 
Shell are jointly looking at ways to develop, 
including downstream applications, a coal 
resource of more than 600 million tonnes. ■
n e x t 	 s e c t i o n :
How the Group and its 
subsidiaries performed in  
2007, including business 
unit and financial reviews 
“ Through our asset 
optimisation programme, 
we are identifying, and 
seeking to close, any  
value gaps between  
the performance of  
our operations and the 
industry’s best in class”  14 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating and financial review
Basis of disclosure
This operating and financial review (OFR) 
describes the main trends and factors 
underlying the development, performance  
and position of Anglo American plc (the Group) 
during the year ended 31 December 2007, 
as well as those likely to affect our future 
development, performance and position.  
It has been prepared in line with the guidance 
provided in the reporting statement on the 
operating and financial review issued by the UK 
Accounting Standards Board in January 2006.
Forward looking statements
This OFR contains certain forward looking 
statements with respect to the financial 
condition, results, operations and businesses 
of the Group. These statements and forecasts 
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate 
to events and depend on circumstances that 
occur in the future. There are a number of factors 
that could cause actual results or developments 
to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied by these forward looking statements.
15 Group overview
15 The Group
15 The businesses
15 Precious
16 Base
16 Bulk
17 Key performance indicators (KPIs)
18 Performance against KPIs
18 Safety
18 People
20 Asset optimisation
20 New capital investment
23  Sustainable development
25 Resources
27  Group financial performance
31 Business unit overview
31 Platinum
31 Business overview
32 Industry overview
32 Strategy and growth
33 Financial overview
35 Diamonds
35 Business overview
35 Industry overview
35 Strategy and growth
36 Financial overview
38 Base Metals
38 Business overview
38 Industry overview
39 Strategy and growth
40 Financial overview
43 Ferrous Metals
43 Business overview
44 Industry overview
44 Strategy and growth
45 Financial overview
46 Coal
46 Business overview
47 Industry overview
48 Strategy and growth
48 Financial overview
51 Industrial Minerals
51 Business overview
51 Industry overview
52 Strategy and growth
53 Financial overview
54 Discontinued operations
54 AngloGold Ashanti
54 Paper and Packaging
55 Principal risks and uncertainties
Section contents Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 15
Operating  
and financial  
review
The Group 
Anglo American is a global leader in 
mining focused on adding value for 
shareholders, customers, employees 
and the communities in which it operates.  
 
The Group has a range of high quality, 
core mining businesses with balanced 
participation across precious, base and 
bulk commodities.  
 
The five core mining businesses are 
Platinum, Diamonds, Base Metals,  
Iron Ore (Ferrous Metals) and Coal.  
 
The Group is geographically diverse, 
with an operating footprint spanning 
45 countries.
The businesses
Precious
Platinum
Anglo Platinum mines, processes and refines 
the entire range of platinum group metals 
(platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, 
iridium and osmium) and is the world’s largest 
primary producer of platinum, accounting for 
some 37% of global supply. Anglo Platinum has 
the largest platinum reserves in the world, as 
well as extensive resource capabilities and the 
ability to grow production in line with projected 
demand for the foreseeable future. The industry 
outlook for platinum is positive, supported in 
particular by autocatalyst and Chinese jewellery 
demand, and industrial growth. All of Anglo 
Platinum’s current operations are located in 
South Africa.
Further details on Anglo Platinum’s 
strategy, the demand drivers behind the 
business and financial results for the year  
can be found on pages 31 to 34 of the OFR.
Diamonds
Anglo American’s diamond interests are 
represented by its 45% shareholding in  
De Beers, the other shareholders being Central 
Holdings Ltd (an Oppenheimer family holding 
company) (40%), and the Government of the 
Republic of Botswana (15%).
De Beers is the world’s leading diamond 
exploration, mining and marketing company.  
Its expertise extends to all aspects of the 
diamond pipeline including prospecting, mining 
and recovery and through its marketing arm, the 
Diamond Trading Company International (DTCI), 
the sorting, valuing and sale of rough gem 
diamonds. De Beers produces around 40%  
by value of global rough diamond production 
from its mines in South Africa and through its 
partnerships with the governments of Botswana, 
Namibia and Tanzania. The long term supply 
and demand characteristics for the diamond 
industry are favourable, driven by continued 
strong jewellery demand in mature markets 
such as the US and increasing demand from 
emerging markets such as China and India.
Further details on De Beers’ strategy, 
the demand drivers behind the business 
and financial results for the year can be 
found on pages 35 to 37 of the OFR.
Group overview
   
 16 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Base
Base Metals
Anglo Base Metals has 14 operations in six 
countries:
•  six copper operations in Chile – the wholly 
owned Los Bronces, El Soldado, Mantos 
Blancos and Mantoverde mines, the 
Chagres smelter and a 44% interest in the 
Collahuasi mine. The mines also produce 
associated by-products such as 
molybdenum and silver;
•  the Codemin nickel and Catalão niobium 
mines in Brazil and the Loma de Níquel 
nickel mine in Venezuela;
•  the Namakwa mineral sands mine and 
plants in South Africa produce titanium 
dioxide, zircon and rutile, together with 
associated by-products;
•  the Lisheen (Ireland), Black Mountain 
(South Africa) and Skorpion (Namibia)  
zinc mines, producing zinc and associated 
by-products such as lead, copper and 
silver; and
•   a controlling interest in the phosphate 
fertiliser and phosphoric acid producer, 
Copebrás, in Brazil.
Anglo Base Metals’ world class assets are 
supported by a strong project pipeline with the 
division’s extensive brownfield and greenfield 
expansion plans underpinned by a positive 
outlook for copper, nickel and zinc.
Further details on Anglo Base Metals’ 
strategy, the demand drivers behind the 
business and financial results for the year 
can be found on pages 38 to 42 of the OFR.
Bulk 
Ferrous Metals
Anglo Ferrous Metals’ primary business is iron 
ore. The division has a 63.4% shareholding  
in Kumba Iron Ore Limited in South Africa and  
a 49% interest, acquired in mid-2007, in the 
MMX Minas-Rio project in Brazil. Other interests 
principally comprise manganese ore and alloy 
operations and carbon steel products.
Through Kumba, Anglo American is already 
the world’s fourth largest iron ore producer, 
with the capacity to double output over the next 
five years.
Further details on Ferrous Metals’ 
strategy, the demand drivers behind the 
business and financial results for the year 
can be found on pages 43 to 46 of the OFR.
Coal
The Group’s coal interests are held through its 
wholly owned Anglo Coal business, one of the 
world’s largest private sector coal producers 
and exporters. In 2007, Anglo Coal produced 
95.6 million tonnes (Mt) from three geographic 
regions: South Africa, Australia and South 
America (Venezuela and Colombia).
Anglo Coal produces thermal and 
metallurgical coals for international customers in 
the Med-Atlantic and Indo-Pacific markets as well 
as local customers in South Africa and Australia.
As energy demand and prices continue to 
rise, coal remains the world’s most abundant, 
affordable and secure fuel source. With the help 
of technology it is also becoming a cleaner fuel. 
Anglo Coal’s excellent growth prospects in 
thermal and metallurgical coal will ensure the 
Group is firmly placed to help meet increased 
global energy needs and will continue to play  
an important part in Anglo American’s growth 
over the next decade.
Further details on Anglo Coal’s 
strategy, the demand drivers behind the 
business and financial results for the year 
can be found on pages 46 to 50 of the OFR.
Industrial Minerals
In August 2007, Anglo American announced 
plans to sell Tarmac, the aggregate products 
and building materials business. Tarmac has a 
leading position in the UK construction 
materials industry and is well positioned in 
certain key markets in continental Europe and 
the Middle East. It is expected that the 
performance of Tarmac will underpin a 
competitive sale process; however, it has been 
decided not to launch the marketing phase of 
the sale process until current credit market 
conditions improve.
Further details on Industrial Minerals’ 
strategy, the demand drivers behind the 
business and financial results for the year 
can be found on pages 51 to 53 of the OFR.
Group overview continued
see also
p
10
Our strategy in action
p
31
Review by business unit
“ The Group is 
geographically diverse, 
with an operating  
footprint spanning  
45 countries”
p
27
Group financial performance Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 17
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
In order to realise its strategic aims, Anglo American identified areas of strategic focus and has put in place a number of  
key performance indicators to measure and assess progress against them. These encompass both financial and  
non-financial indicators as well as quantitative and qualitative measures. While these KPIs are helpful in measuring the 
Group’s performance, it should be stressed that they are not exhaustive and that many additional performance measures  
are used to monitor progress. 
Strategic aim Strategic focus KPI Description Results and target (if applicable)
Integration Safety Work related fatal injuries  
and fatal injury frequency  
rate (FIFR)*
FIFR is calculated as the number of fatal injuries to 
employees or contractors per 200,000 hours worked
2006: 44 fatalities, 0.017 FIFR
2007: 40 fatalities, 0.018 FIFR  
2008 target: zero incidents
Lost time injury frequency  
rate (LTIFR)*
The number of lost-time injuries (LTIs) per 200,000 
hours worked. An LTI is an occupational injury which 
renders the person unable to perform his/her duties 
for one full shift or more the day after the injury was 
incurred, whether a scheduled work day or not
2006: 1.16
2007: 1.15
2008 target: 0.68
The ultimate goal of zero harm remains
People Voluntary labour turnover† Number of permanent employee resignations as a 
percentage of total permanent employees
2006: 5.4% (includes discontinued 
operations)
2007: 4.3%
Gender diversity† Percentage of women and female managers employed 
by the Group 
2006: 14% females, 15% female managers 
(includes discontinued operations)
2007: 11% females, 15% female managers
Voluntary counselling and  
testing (VCT) for HIV/AIDS
Percentage of employees undertaking voluntary 
annual HIV tests with compulsory counselling support
2006: 63% (includes discontinued 
operations)
2007: 71%
2008 target: 100% VCT in high disease 
burden countries (100% is the long term goal)
Performance Asset optimisation Return on capital employed Calculated as total operating profit before impairments 
for the year divided by the average total capital less 
other investments and adjusted for impairments
2006: 32.4% 
2007: 37.8%
Year on year cost savings 
($m)†
Cost savings and efficiencies to the Group relating to 
operating efficiencies, procurement savings and 
restructuring and synergies
2006: $343m ($590m on a total 
Group basis)
2007: $280m ($380m on a total  
Group basis)
Underlying earnings  
per share†
Underlying earnings is net profit attributable to equity 
shareholders, adjusted for the effect of special items 
and remeasurements, and any related tax and minority 
interests
2006: $3.42 ($3.73 on a total Group basis) 
2007: $4.18 ($4.40 on a total Group basis)
Total shareholder return (TSR) TSR is defined as share price growth plus dividends 
reinvested over the performance period. The Group 
uses a performance period of three years and 
calculates TSR annually
Please refer to Remuneration report on 
pages 70 to 82
Growth New capital investment Capital projects and 
investment
Optimise the pipeline of projects and ensure that new 
capital is only committed to projects that show a 
positive net present value on a risk adjusted basis
A summary of the Group’s project pipeline is 
on pages 20 to 22
Engagement Sustainable  
development
CO 2 emission intensity* Reduction in CO 2 emissions are measured from a  
2004 baseline
2006: 36.4 million tonnes CO 2 equivalents
2007: 24.4 million tonnes CO 2 equivalents
Target: A 10% reduction in CO 2 emissions 
per unit of production by 2014
Energy efficiency* Improvements in energy efficiency are measured from 
a 2004 baseline
2006: 304 million GJ total energy used
2007: 196 million GJ total energy used
Target: A 15% improvement in energy 
efficiency by 2014
Total water use* Water is a critical resource and is managed at 
catchment level. Baselines and targets are being 
revised in 2008
2006: 582 million m
3
2007: 251 million m
3
 
Corporate social investment* Social investment as defined by the London 
Benchmarking Group includes donations, gifts in kind 
and staff time for administering community 
programmes and volunteering in company time
2006: Spend – $50.3m, 0.55% of profit 
before tax
2007: Spend – $60.5m, 0.70% of profit 
before tax
* Includes data from Mondi until 3 July 2007 and Highveld until April 2007. 2006 results include data from Mondi and Highveld for the full year. 
† Excludes discontinued operations unless otherwise stated.
The Group believes the Corporate social investment KPI reflects neither the strategic value of the initiative nor is it sufficiently reflective of the value 
of the outcome of the initiative. We are in the process of developing new KPIs which seek to address some of these issues. 18 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
 Performance against KPIs
KPIs are employed across the Group  
to assess how well the strategic aims 
are being met 
 
Integration
Adopting a ‘One Anglo’ approach includes 
applying common standards and systems in 
areas such as safety and people management.
Safety
Sadly, 40 people lost their lives at Anglo American 
operations in 2007 (2006: 44), with 11 of 
those fatalities occurring in the second half of 
the year. There was also a reduction in lost time 
injuries (LTIs) in the second half of the year, 
although the LTI frequency rate for the year as  
a whole remained flat compared to 2006.
Fatal incidents at Anglo American 
operations remain a major concern and triggered 
significant executive response during 2007, 
including the temporary suspension of 
production at all shafts at Anglo Platinum’s 
Rustenburg mine. 
Following a summit called by the chief 
executive, a new strategy was launched in  
mid-2007 and is in the process of being 
rolled out. 
The new strategy lays stress on the role  
of leadership and the need for a sound and 
comprehensive risk management strategy and 
is founded on:
•  results from our own Safety Peer Reviews 
conducted during the year;
•  results from an in-depth safety audit 
conducted at a mine that had gone for 
almost two years LTI-free and then had  
a spate of three fatalities;
•  the Baker Report on BP’s Texas City explosion 
which highlighted the necessary distinction 
between process safety and personal safety; 
and
•  the International Council for Mining & Metals 
Safety and Health Conference which 
introduced some valuable lessons from 
our peers.
The Anglo Safety Way is a framework of 
management systems and standards which will 
guide the way the Group works. These have 
now been supported by the adoption of a Fatal 
Risk Standards and a Safety Risk Management 
Programme. In support of the latter, the Group 
has funded Professor Jim Joy as the Anglo 
American Professor of Safety Risk Management 
at the University of Queensland, Australia. 
Programmes for executive, management, 
supervisory and operator training are being 
developed with the aim of making suitable risk 
management qualifications and good safety 
performance essential to career advancement. 
People
Underpinning Anglo American’s strategy to 
become a leading focused mining company  
are the combined efforts of all its employees 
who number more than 90,000 permanent 
employees around the globe (excluding  
joint ventures and our independently  
managed businesses). 
With a demanding project and growth 
agenda, the Group’s people strategies are key  
to attracting, developing and retaining great 
employees at every level (often in the context  
of tight labour markets) and in supporting the 
highest standards of performance.
Talent management
Talent management activities are well 
supported across the Group and are not limited 
to those areas of the business that are currently 
challenged by resource constraints. A three-tier 
approach to talent management (with reviews 
at divisional, functional and Board level) 
continued during 2007, with increasing focus  
on the actions arising from our talent audit work, 
including demanding assessment interventions 
as well as extensions to our world class 
development programmes. 
During 2007, the Group successfully 
introduced new enablers like the Global Banding 
Framework (see Reward, retention and 
performance) and a talent management system 
(AngloTrack) to streamline the management  
of talent data. Web-based work spaces, known 
as QuickPlaces, were established to allow 
development programme alumni to keep in 
touch and share insights and learning, while the 
internal enterprise information portal, 
theSource, has provided an excellent platform 
for sharing core management tools and 
techniques across the businesses. 
Increased sharing of ideas and resources 
has resulted in an increase in efficiencies and 
effectiveness in the Group’s talent initiatives. 
For example, from 2008, our previously diverse 
foundation Management Development 
Programmes will have a common curriculum  
and standard of delivery throughout the world.
On the resourcing front, several initiatives 
are under way at executive and broader levels, 
including a single web-based internal and 
external recruitment system. The recent 
appointment of a Group head of resourcing  
will result in greater benefits arising from more 
unified recruitment strategies. 
Group overview continued Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 19
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Reward, retention and performance
Reward and retention initiatives continue to be  
a major focus across the Group, as is the linking 
of the highest levels of reward with the highest 
standards of performance.
Compensation and benefit programmes are 
regularly benchmarked externally (using a range 
of market data) to confirm the Group’s 
competitiveness and are subject to review by 
the Remuneration Committee to ensure that 
they continue to be effective and appropriate. 
The introduction of the Global Banding 
Framework paved the way for a Group-wide 
common system and language for assessing 
management and professional roles, replacing 
a range of disparate local legacy grading 
systems. The common system will bring 
considerable benefits in the drive to achieve  
a more unified performance culture throughout 
the business. This includes facilitating global 
consistency and understanding of roles across 
all business units, functions and locations,  
and enhancing the retention aspects of the 
organisation’s talent and career development 
processes through support for greater mobility 
across the Group. 
One of the Group’s key measures of 
employee retention is voluntary labour 
turnover. On a Group-wide basis, resignation 
rates fell in 2007 to 4.3%, despite increasing 
pressure in the resource constrained labour 
market. During the year supplementary 
retention measures were introduced within 
targeted areas, which helped contain labour 
turnover and reverse previously upward trends 
in this area.
During a year which saw the major 
divestment of Paper and Packaging, the Group’s 
reward and retention initiatives, together with a 
share consolidation, successfully dealt with the 
impact of the demerger. 
The year also marked the launch of Project 
Fusion, a payroll, benefit and employee life 
cycle information-management system that will 
enhance online people-management capability 
at the transactional level and provide a more 
sophisticated platform for Group-wide HR 
initiatives. The initiative has also laid the 
foundation for the development of a Group-
wide HR shared services function.
Transformation 
Within South Africa, the Group has seen 
consolidation of its representation of historically 
disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs) in its 
management ranks in this reporting period 
(target 40%), with the streamlined and more 
focused mining business reflecting an increased 
percentage (42%) of HDSAs in management 
(2006: 39%).
There has also been growth in the representation 
of women in senior management roles in South 
Africa. The figure at the end of 2007 was 17%, 
up from 14% a year earlier. These upward trends 
are expected to continue in 2008, with further 
growth in the overall HDSA complement and 
female representation in management roles. 
Within the Group, overall gender diversity 
profiles mirror the changed focus from a 
conglomerate to a mining business. Since the 
divestment of our Paper and Packaging interests, 
although the percentage of female managers has 
remained constant at 15%, the overall percentage 
of females in the Group has decreased to 11% 
(2006: 14%). Initiatives like “Women in Mining” 
are seeking to change perceptions about the 
attractiveness of careers in mining. 
HIV and AIDS response
The burden of disease in developing countries  
is a significant global development challenge. 
The Group encounters this challenge at many 
of its operations and through its various health 
initiatives is able to make a significant contribution 
towards achieving health development goals. 
The Group’s main exposure is to the impact 
of the HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis epidemics in 
sub-Saharan Africa, and especially South Africa, 
where ongoing management responses, both in 
the workplace and the community, are making 
a significant difference. 
The Group’s own HIV/AIDS programmes, 
based on a foundation of non-discrimination, 
stigma reduction, gender equality and equitable 
access to care, support and treatment, continue 
to make good progress in reducing the burden of 
disease. More than 70% of Group employees in 
southern Africa discovered, or updated their 
knowledge of, their HIV status by participating 
in VCT initiatives during 2007. 
Early diagnosis of HIV allows early access  
to treatment and can significantly delay and 
possibly prevent the onset of AIDS. By the end 
of 2007, the Group directly supported around 
3,600 employees on treatment for AIDS; 
virtually all of them being able to continue with 
their normal jobs and support their families. 
During the year the Group made significant 
funding commitments and took major strides to 
improve access to care, support and treatment 
for the dependants of all employees. Anglo 
American supports many community based 
initiatives, which benefit from the Group’s 
workplace experience managing HIV/AIDS and 
tuberculosis. 
The Group is taking a leading role in 
recognising the vulnerability of young women and 
girls to HIV infection and is actively involved in 
supporting initiatives to improve women’s rights 
and access to quality health care around the world.
 20 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Performance
Asset optimisation
2007 was a year of change for the Group – one  
in which it continued to deliver strong returns 
for shareholders while also streamlining the 
business and laying the foundations for greater 
efficiency gains and stronger growth into 
future. For information on our asset 
optimisation programme, see pages 10 to 13 
and see pages 27 to 30 of the OFR for analysis 
of the Group’s financial performance in the 
year.
Growth
New capital investment
Several major projects are under development 
across the Group’s platinum, diamond, coal, base 
metals and iron ore businesses. These projects 
amount to $12 billion on an attributable basis. 
Under active consideration, and at the pre-
feasibility or feasibility stages are further major 
projects with an estimated potential cost of 
around $29 billion. This array of projects 
stretching well into the future, building on  
the Group’s unique suite of existing assets, 
has created formidable organic growth potential.
In South Africa, Anglo Platinum approved 
several projects in 2007, including the 
$279 million expansion at the base metals 
refinery, the $139 million Townlands ore 
replacement project, and the $188 million 
Mainstream inert grind projects.
The $692 million PPRust North expansion 
project is in progress, with the mine expected  
to mill an additional 600,000 tonnes of ore per 
month when it reaches full capacity in 2009.  
The $224 million East Upper UG2 project at 
Amandelbult, to exploit mainly the UG2 reef, 
will raise the mine’s platinum output by 
100,000 ounces a year by 2012. Accessing 
Merensky reef, the $316 million Paardekraal 2 
shaft project aims to replace 120,000 ounces 
of platinum annually by 2015.
Base Metals has several projects in  
South America to ensure that the Group  
retains its significant market position in  
copper. In Chile, approval has been given for 
a $1.7 billion expansion of Los Bronces to take 
production to an average initial level exceeding 
400,000 tonnes per annum (tpa) of copper from 
2011, while investigations are under way on 
a potential two phase expansion at Collahuasi. 
In Peru, the Quellaveco project, currently the 
subject of a revised feasibility study, is scheduled 
to be submitted for Board approval in the second 
half of 2008. If approved, this copper mine 
would produce in the region of 200,000 tpa,  
at a capital cost of $1.7 billion. Also in Peru,
the Group won the tender for the Michiquillay 
copper project for a staged cash investment of 
$403 million. Michiquillay, which will exploit one 
of the largest undeveloped copper deposits in 
the world, has the potential to produce up to 
300,000 tpa.
In Brazil, the $1.5 billion Barro Alto project 
is on schedule for first production in 2010 and 
will provide a significant boost to the Group’s 
growing market position in nickel. Also in Brazil, 
Ferrous Metals acquired a 49% stake in the 
MMX Minas-Rio iron ore project for a 
consideration of $1.15 billion during the year, 
plus a potential payment of $600 million if 
certain criteria are met. Phase 1 of the project 
consists of a 26.5 million tonnes per annum 
(Mtpa) mine and a 525-kilometre slurry pipeline 
to transport pellet feed to a port facility which is 
being developed. The mine is also being planned 
to produce 3 Mtpa of lump for domestic sale. 
First production is scheduled for 2010. The 
capital cost, on a 100% basis, for the 
construction of the mine, the pipeline and the 
port for phase 1, is estimated at $3.46 billion. In 
January 2008, Anglo American announced that 
it was in exclusive discussions with MMX’s 
majority shareholder to acquire control of the 
Minas-Rio project and the Amapá iron ore mine 
for approximately $5.5 billion, if the Group 
acquires 100% of the interests held by MMX in 
these assets. The resource statements for 
Minas-Rio and Amapá are currently being 
updated.
In Alaska, a 50% stake in the Pebble copper 
project has been acquired for a staged cash 
investment of $1.425 billion. The key assets  
of the project, which is co-owned by Northern 
Dynasty Minerals, are its open pit style Pebble 
West copper-gold-molybdenum deposit and  
the adjacent deeper and higher grade Pebble 
East deposit. The objective is to complete a  
pre-feasibility study by the end of 2008. 
Group overview continued
“ This array of projects 
stretching well into  
the future, building  
on the Group’s unique  
suite of existing assets,  
has created formidable 
organic growth potential” Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 21
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
At Kumba Iron Ore’s $754 million  
Sishen Expansion Project in South Africa, first 
commercial output was delivered by the end of 
2007. The project is expected to ramp up to full 
production capacity of 13 Mtpa of iron ore  
in 2009. Further brownfield and greenfield 
projects should increase Kumba’s annual  
output to more than 70 Mtpa. 
In 2007, Coal progressed expansion 
programmes in all its major countries of 
operation. The recently approved $505 million, 
6.6 Mtpa, Zondagsfontein project will form  
an important part of Coal’s plans to increase  
its South African coal production by 50%  
to around the 90 Mtpa level by 2015. 
Zondagsfontein will produce thermal coal  
for Eskom.
In Australia, the $835 million Dawson mine 
continues to ramp up towards full production of 
an additional 5.7 Mtpa (100%) of metallurgical 
and thermal coal for the export market. 
Also in Australia, the $690 million Lake 
Lindsay greenfield project is on schedule for  
first production in the first quarter of 2008. 
Annual saleable production will be 4.0 Mtpa 
(100%), comprising mainly metallurgical coal. 
De Beers is progressing a number of projects 
to maintain its role as a leading global diamond 
producer. The major expansion focus is in 
Canada, where De Beers has two significant 
projects. The technically and logistically 
challenging Snap Lake development close to 
the Arctic Circle in the Northwest Territories 
was brought into production late in the fourth 
quarter of 2007 and plans to produce 
approximately 1.6 million carats per annum.  
In Ontario, the province’s first diamond mine, 
Victor, is set to enter production in the second 
quarter of 2008, yielding 0.6 million carats per 
annum. In South Africa, the South African  
Sea Areas marine mining vessel (mv) was 
launched off the Atlantic coast in June. As 
De Beers’ newest vessel, the mv Peace in Africa 
is expected to yield approximately 0.2 million 
carats per annum. Work continues in South 
Africa on reopening the long dormant 
Voorspoed mine, with first production due in 
the fourth quarter of 2008, yielding 0.7 million 
carats per annum. 
“ It is estimated that about 
55% of the total investment 
in the Los Bronces 
expansion project will  
be spent in the Chilean 
economy”
FOCuS ON: 
Copper expansion at Los Bronces
The $1.7 billion Los Bronces development 
project in Chile will nearly double the mine’s 
current annual production of copper by 2011.
The investment will make Los Bronces 
one of the world’s largest copper mines and 
marks another important stage in the Group’s 
pipeline of copper expansion projects, which 
aims to increase attributable copper 
production to approximately 1.6 million 
tonnes per annum by 2016. 
Los Bronces is an open pit copper mine 
located in the Andes, 65 kilometres north-
east of Santiago and more than 3,500 metres 
above sea level. The mine is connected to  
the treatment plants via a 56-kilometre slurry 
pipeline and includes copper and molybdenum 
flotation plants and two solvent-extraction/
electro-winning (SX-EW) plants for the low-
grade ore dump leaching process.
The project will involve the construction  
of new grinding facilities and a flotation plant. 
In addition to the 3,700 new jobs created in 
the construction period, 400 permanent 
employees will be taken on once the project is 
completed. It is estimated that about 55% of 
the total investment ($935 million) will be 
spent in the Chilean economy. The project is 
expected to be completed in three years and 
have a mine life of more than 30 years.  22 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Group overview continued
Selected major projects 
 
Completed
Sector Project Country Completion date Capex $m
(1)
Production volume
(2)
 
Diamonds South African Sea Areas South Africa Q2 2007 159 0.2 M carats pa
Coal Bundoora Australia Q1 2007 90 Replace 2.6 Mt coking over life of mine
Approved
Sector Project Country
Full 
production date
Estimated 
capex $m
(1)
Production volume
(2)
 
Platinum Mototolo JV South Africa 2008 200 130 kozpa refined platinum
Marikana JV South Africa 2009 36 145 kozpa refined platinum 
PPRust North expansion South Africa 2009 692 230 kozpa refined platinum
PPRust North replacement South Africa 2009 230 Replace 200 kozpa refined platinum
Newly approved Mainstream inert grind projects South Africa 2009 188 Improved process recoveries
Lebowa Brakfontein Merensky South Africa 2010 179 Replace 108 kozpa refined platinum
Newly approved Base metals refinery expansion South Africa 2010 279 11 ktpa nickel
Amandelbult East Upper UG2 South Africa 2012 224 100 kozpa refined platinum
Newly approved Townlands ore replacement South Africa 2014 139 Replace 70 kozpa refined platinum
Paardekraal South Africa 2015 316 Replace 120 kozpa refined platinum
Newly approved Twickenham
(8)
South Africa 2016 735 180 kozpa refined platinum
Diamonds Snap Lake Canada 2008 997 1.6 M carats pa
Victor Canada 2009 1,021 0.6 M carats pa
Voorspoed South Africa 2009 185 0.7 M carats pa
Coal Dawson Australia 2008 835 5.7 Mtpa coking, semi-soft and thermal
Lake Lindsay Australia 2008 690 4.0 Mtpa coking and semi-soft
Mafube South Africa 2008 292 5.4 Mtpa thermal
Cerrejón Colombia 2008 129 3.0 Mtpa (2nd stage) thermal
MacWest South Africa 2009  47 2.7 Mtpa thermal
Newly approved Zondagsfontein implementation South Africa 2010 505 6.6 Mtpa thermal
Base Metals Collahuasi debottlenecking Chile 2009  64 30 ktpa copper
Barro Alto Brazil 2011 1,500 36 ktpa nickel
Newly approved Los Bronces expansion Chile 2011 1,700 170 ktpa copper
(4)
Ferrous Metals Sishen Expansion South Africa 2009 754 13 Mtpa iron ore
Newly approved MMX Minas-Rio phase 1 Brazil 2011 3,456 26.5 Mtpa iron ore pellet feed (wet base)
(7)
Future unapproved
Sector Project Country
Full  
production date
Estimated 
capex $m
(3)
Production volume
(2)
 
Coal Heidelberg Opencast South Africa 2009 20 1 Mtpa thermal
Elders Opencast South Africa 2011 365 7 Mtpa thermal
Heidelberg Underground South Africa 2013 270 5 Mtpa thermal
Elders Underground South Africa 2013 185 4 Mtpa thermal
New Largo South Africa 2016 690 14.7 Mtpa thermal
Waterberg South Africa TBD TBD N/A
Base Metals Quellaveco Peru 2013 1,700 200 ktpa copper
Collahuasi expansion phase 1 Chile 2010 750 650 ktpa copper
(9)
Collahuasi expansion phase 2 Chile 2014 TBD 1,000 ktpa copper
(9)
Michiquillay Peru 2016 2,000-2,500 300 ktpa copper
(5)
Pebble USA TBD TBD 350 ktpa copper
(6)
Ferrous Metals Sishen South South Africa 2011 645 9 Mtpa iron ore
Sishen Pellet South Africa 2013 145 1.5 Mtpa iron ore pellets
Sishen Expansion 2 South Africa 2013 560 10 Mtpa iron ore
MMX Minas-Rio phase 2 Brazil TBD TBD 26.5 Mtpa pellet feed (wet base)
(1)
  Shown on 100% basis unless otherwise stated.
(2)
  Production represents 100% of average incremental or replacement 
production, at full production, unless otherwise stated.
(3)
 Shown on 100% basis, approximate amounts.
(4)
  Production represents average over the first ten years of the project.
(5)
  Michiquillay will also produce 7 ktpa molybdenum, 230 kozpa gold, 
and 2.3 Mozpa silver by-products.
(6)
  Pebble will also produce around 12 ktpa molybdenum and 600 
kozpa gold by-products.
(7)
  MMX Minas-Rio phase 1 is also expected to produce 3 Mtpa lump 
iron ore.
(8)
  Twickenham was approved in February 2008.
(9)
  Total production of mine when project ramps up to full production.
The Group has a number of other unapproved projects under evaluation including Der Brochen, Pandora JV and Styldrift in Platinum and AK06, Gahcho Kué and Jwaneng in Diamonds. Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 23
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Engagement
Sustainable development
Anglo American made a firm commitment  
to sustainable development in 2000. It has 
since worked to ensure that its policies and 
strategies address the key economic, social and 
environmental risks and concerns that underpin 
this agenda through daily good business practice, 
as well as working in partnership with other 
industry leaders, international agencies and 
non-governmental organisations (NGOs). This 
has highlighted real business opportunities. 
Sustainability development priorities  
are sanctioned by the Group’s Executive 
Committee. Strategy and results are presented 
to the Board’s Safety and Sustainable 
Development Committee for regular review. 
Sustainable development risks and 
opportunities are assessed and reported 
periodically through the Group’s internal risk 
management procedures. Corporate oversight 
and analysis are also provided by the corporate 
sustainable development team of the longer term 
consequences of emerging trends and the risks 
and opportunities identified by business units. 
The Group’s approach to sustainable 
development and measurement of its 
performance are reported in more detail in  
the Report to Society 2007. The report is 
published annually in April and is available  
both in printed form and electronically on our 
website. It provides extensive detail of the 
Group’s commitment to its principles of 
sustainable development as well as analysis  
of its performance in 2007.
Energy use, CO
2
 emissions and  
water resources
Climate change is one of the most significant 
global challenges. Anglo American reports 
energy use and carbon emissions annually and 
is committed to ongoing operational efforts  
to reduce the Group’s impact – particularly 
through increasing energy efficiency and 
reducing the carbon intensity of the Group’s 
products. Employees are also actively engaged 
in long term international research and 
development programmes for zero-emissions 
power generation and carbon sequestration.
From a 2004 baseline, we are aiming to 
achieve a 10% reduction in CO
2
 emissions  
per unit of production (emissions intensity)  
by 2014 and increase energy efficiency by 15%.
Energy use
The Group’s managed companies used  
196 million Gigajoules (GJ) of energy in 2007 
(including energy use by Mondi and Highveld 
Steel up to the point of divestment). Energy  
use by the Group, excluding divestments,  
was 120 million GJ in 2007 and 109 million GJ  
in 2006.
During 2007, Group-wide attention was 
given to developing appropriate metrics for 
improving and reporting our energy efficiency 
initiatives. This has the dual purpose of enabling 
improved management focus on the design and 
management of these initiatives within the long-
term continuous improvement programme, as well 
as improving the ability to report the results. 
In addition, the Group has made progress  
in the use of market-based mechanisms such  
as the Carbon Development Mechanism of the 
UN’s Kyoto Protocol and the European Trading 
System to maximise business benefits from 
these approaches. Anglo American continues  
to engage both peers and other industry leaders 
as well as a variety of experts on issues of energy 
strategy and management. This is to ensure 
that the Group addresses the energy security 
needs of its operations and markets as well as 
the urgent need to respond to the now well-
documented challenge of climate change. With 
oil prices high throughout the year, energy costs 
remain a major focus of management attention.
Reducing CO
2
 emissions
In 2007, the Group’s total greenhouse gas 
emissions were 24.4 million tonnes of CO
2
 
equivalents (CO
2
e) (34.6 in 2006 – the 
difference due mainly to demergers and 
disposals). The core companies (excluding 
Mondi and Highveld) generated greenhouse  
gas (GHG) emissions of 20.9 million tonnes  
of CO
2
e including 3 million tonnes of CO
2
e from 
coal mine methane. The comparable figure for 
2006 was 20.8 million tonnes. As part of 
Anglo American’s commitment to work 
responsibly wherever it operates, all investment 
proposals are required to factor in a cost of 
carbon in order to raise awareness and support 
efforts to reduce emissions. During 2007, 
we rolled out a toolkit that enables design 
engineers to test and evaluate the impact of 
sustainable development concerns, including 
climate change, at the design stage and to 
incorporate these into the financial evaluation 
from the outset. We recognise the risk that 
current policies on carbon emissions may 
increase the cost of energy.
 *  Results of Paper and Packaging included up to point of 
demerger (July 2007) 24 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Group overview continued
Water use
Anglo American is a major user of water – the 
most fundamental of all resources – the 
distribution of which is being visibly affected 
by climate change. Many operations are in arid 
regions with many users competing for this 
scarce resource. The Group’s ongoing 
stewardship of water will be a major factor 
in the viability of existing operations in such 
regions, and even more so in weighing up 
whether a brownfield expansion or a greenfield 
new mine should be given the go-ahead.  
During 2007, Anglo American held its first 
cross-business unit water summit to raise 
awareness of its global responsibility in 
this area.
Group operations consumed a total of  
251 million m
3
 of water in 2007, of which  
130 million m
3
 was in businesses core to its 
future strategy. Major water users exited the 
Group in 2006 and 2007 – Exxaro Hippo Valley 
(November 2006), Highveld Steel (2007) and 
Mondi (2007), which accounts for most of  
the 57% decrease in water use from figures 
published in 2006.
Water consumption in coal production 
increased by 54% – attributed mainly to losses 
due to evaporation and a greater need for dust 
suppression as a result of the Australian 
drought. Anglo Platinum’s water consumption 
increased by 8% reflecting an improvement  
in its water accounting, the introduction of  
a wet scrubbing system and high chloride levels 
in the Rustenburg Base Metals Refinery effluent 
dams that prevented recycling of the water  
at the plant.
FOCuS ON: 
Water reclamation project which brings benefits to business  
and communities
Water management is set to be one of the key sustainability challenges 
of the 21st century and Anglo American is already focusing its attention 
on finding solutions. 
In 2007, the Emalahleni Water Reclamation Plant (EWRP) produced 
its first water for the Emalahleni community in South Africa.
This innovative public-private partnership between Anglo Coal and 
BHP Billiton has turned a liability into a valuable resource. Underground 
mine water is pumped from three Anglo Coal collieries, as well as  
BHP Billiton’s now defunct South Witbank mine, and is desalinated to 
potable quality for supply to the Emalahleni Local Authority’s final  
bulk reservoirs.
The leading-edge technology selected was the result of many years 
of research and development and the plant will generate a yield or water 
recovery of greater than 99%, with less than 1% ending up as waste.
Underground water in mines sterilises valuable coal reserves and 
poses environmental, safety and productivity risks. At the same time, 
severe water shortages have been prevalent in the region for a number 
of years.
Social and community development
The Group increasingly seeks to promote wider 
development in the countries and communities 
where it operates. Among the ways in which 
this is achieved are enterprise development, 
which aids capacity building and economic 
diversification, and the innovative Socio-
Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT) process, 
which aims to improve operations’ 
understanding of the concerns, needs and 
priorities of the communities associated with 
them. During 2007, Anglo Zimele in South 
Africa began to develop a new network of ten 
regional hubs to increase the reach of the 
programme; early indications are that these 
hubs will significantly increase deal flow 
especially amongst start-ups. In Chile,  
the Anglo American enterprise development 
programme has two main elements: a microloans 
project with the NGO, Fondo Esperanza,  
and a scheme to assist existing small to medium 
sized companies to expand and to become  
more significant suppliers to the mining sector.  
Both schemes were recognised for their 
achievements in 2007.
The SEAT process has been used at nearly 
60 sites in 16 countries. During 2007, the 
Group launched an updated version of SEAT, 
which among other things, provides greater 
guidance on relationship issues such as conflict 
prevention and the handling of complaints. 
SEAT was also hailed as industry best practice 
in a review by US NGO Business for Social 
Responsibility.
Involuntary resettlement is a key risk in the 
social sphere. During 2007, Anglo Platinum  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 25
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
began a major relocation of almost 1,000 
families in the Limpopo province of South Africa 
amid some controversy. The resettlement is 
now more than 50% complete and the families 
involved have secured a clear improvement in 
the standard of their housing. However, the 
Group has drawn some important lessons in 
relation to the handling of direct communication 
with community members and the importance 
of long term planning if economic development 
commitments are to be made good.
Corporate social investment
Anglo American and its managed subsidiaries 
and joint ventures contributed $60.5 million 
(0.7% of pre-tax profit) to charitable causes 
and community development initiatives 
compared with $50.3 million (0.5% of pre-tax 
profit) in 2006. These figures include cash 
donations, gifts in kind and staff time spent 
delivering community benefit programmes.  
In addition, the Group is providing approximately 
$5 million a year for five years to two 
independent trusts, Optima and Epoch, to 
raise standards of maths and science teaching 
in South African schools.
The Anglo American Chairman’s Fund, the 
Group’s main social investment vehicle in South 
Africa, was rated for the sixth time in seven 
years as the top corporate giver by NGOs and 
peer group companies. In 2007, it supported 
over 300 projects. In Chile, the Group’s 
enterprise development programme was 
recognised through the award of one of only 
seven Bicentennial Medals by President 
Bachelet. In its first year, in partnership with the 
Fondo Esperanza, it supported loans to 900 
small-scale entrepreneurs and worked with 
20 more established businesses to assist them 
in moving to the next stage of growth.
To mirror the work of the Chairman’s Fund, 
the Anglo American Group Foundation was 
established in 2006 aimed at supporting projects 
in the UK and other parts of the world where the 
Group operates. Amongst the causes supported 
by the Foundation during 2007 were projects  
for Plan International in China, SightSavers 
International in West Africa, Children of the Andes 
in Colombia, Starfish, which works with HIV/AIDS 
impacted families in South Africa, and Engineers 
Without Borders. Within the UK, Anglo American 
worked with homelessness charities Centrepoint 
and the Connection at St Martin-in-the-Fields 
in London, and the National AIDS Trust. 
In addition, the Group built on a longstanding 
involvement with the international development 
charity CARE in countries like Brazil and 
Zimbabwe, by forming a global relationship 
aimed at poverty alleviation and improving local 
development outcomes.
Resources
The resources Anglo American 
considers critical to achieving its 
strategic aims include:
• Knowledge and expertise
•  Proved and Probable reserves. Full 
details of the Group’s Ore Reserves 
and Mineral Resources estimates are  
found on pages 136 to 157
Knowledge and expertise
Technology capability
Anglo American has long been distinguished by 
its strong in-house technology capability. Anglo 
Technical Division (ATD) is the custodian of the 
specialised technologies employed throughout 
the Group, while Anglo Research identifies 
emerging technologies and develops them to 
pilot-plant scale and also assists in the rapid 
transfer of technologies across the Group. 
They are key members of Anglo American’s 
Technology Council, which meets quarterly  
to examine developing trends in the mining 
industry and to ensure that the Group takes full 
advantage of new and emerging technologies. 
The Group’s wide portfolio of technology 
expertise makes it an attractive partner for 
other companies wishing to develop mineral 
properties that had previously been considered 
too difficult or uneconomic to mine successfully.
ATD continues to assist operations at Group 
sites worldwide, particularly in such fields as 
safety improvement, asset optimisation and 
energy efficiency. In the exploration field,  
the superconducting interference device 
(SQUID) has been successfully tested in two 
airborne applications and holds great promise to 
improve the sensitivity of exploration surveys. 
Investigation into the cause and effect of 
parametric resonance in large grinding mill 
systems has led to a whole new area of 
expertise in systems studies to prolong 
mechanical life and increase availability of large 
mills. ATD has developed guidelines for roll-
over protection for mobile equipment and has 
assisted operations in designing appropriate 
structures for low-height vehicles and other 
special applications. A new electro-hydraulic rig 
for shaft sinking has been designed and 
developed by ATD engineers in conjunction with 
a major contracting company and is being tested 
at the Paardekraal 2 shaft of Anglo Platinum. 
Faster than conventional pneumatic drills, the rig 
can also drill the horizontal holes needed to 
insert ground support anchors, reducing the 
number of people needed in the congested area 
at the sinking face. In Australia, Anglo Coal is 
 see also
p
136
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates 26 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
De Beers at 100%, but excluding the activities 
of Anglo Gold Ashanti).
 Anglo Base Metals (which spent 
$77 million) continued exploration around its 
Chilean copper mines and Brazilian nickel and 
phosphate mines, in addition to zinc exploration 
adjacent to operations in Namibia and South 
Africa. A number of new nickel and copper 
projects entered the project pipeline and 
advanced project work continued on the 
Boyongan-Bayugo copper-gold discoveries in the 
Philippines, the Jacaré nickel discovery in Brazil, 
the Sulfatos copper discovery in the Los Bronces 
region in central Chile, and the Gamsberg East 
zinc discovery in South Africa. Elsewhere, the 
Michiquillay copper project in Peru was added to 
the exploration portfolio through a successful 
bid, and a 50% interest in the Pebble copper-
gold-molybdenum project in southern Alaska 
was negotiated successfully in 2007.
Anglo Coal ($32 million) continues to 
evaluate, assess and extend resources for 
thermal and coking coal, coal bed methane and 
oil sands. In South Africa in 2007 it successfully 
retained 94% of its coal prospecting rights, and 
continued its evaluation of coal bed methane 
(CBM) production in the Waterberg project area. 
Exploration activities in Australia concentrated 
on the Moranbah South, Dartbrook and Dawson 
projects. In Canada, Roman Mountain was the 
focus of exploration adjacent to the Trend Mine 
in British Columbia. In China, a two-phase 
exploration programme was aimed at bringing 
the Xiwan project geological data close to 
feasibility study level.
Anglo Platinum ($36 million) continues its 
programme of exploration around existing 
operations in South Africa’s Bushveld Complex, 
where new exploration permits were granted. 
Drilling was undertaken at the Danba project in 
southern China and in Murmansk Oblast in 
western Russia following encouraging 
exploration results. Exploration continued for 
platinum group elements with strategic partners 
in Brazil, Canada and Zimbabwe.
Anglo Ferrous Metals’ ($12 million) 
exploration for iron ore comprised both greenfield 
(Northern Cape) and brownfield (Sishen and 
Thabazimbi) activities in South Africa, and the 
initiation of greenfield exploration within the MMX 
Minas-Rio project area in Minas Gerais, Brazil at 
the Itapanhoacanga, Serro and Serra do Sapo sites. 
De Beers ($126 million) is concentrating its 
search for diamonds in Angola, the Democratic 
Republic of Congo (DRC), Botswana, South 
Africa, Namibia, Canada, India and Russia. 
Projects have moved to an advanced stage in 
Botswana, especially with regard to the potential 
development of a kimberlite pipe in the Orapa 
region, and in Angola and the DRC.
Group overview continued
deploying the world’s largest underground mine 
hydraulic roof supports, with almost 50% more 
thrust than existing designs, at its Moranbah 
North longwall operation. ATD is assisting the 
equipment’s manufacturer with finite element 
analysis on the design to ensure that the 
supports are mechanically reliable and have  
the necessary structural strength to withstand 
the difficult geological conditions there. 
At Anglo Research, innovative processes 
are being developed for the production of 
titanium and to extract nickel from laterite ores, 
with extensive pilot plant testing scheduled 
during 2008. Anglo Research has also upgraded 
its pressure leach pilot plant facility with new 
controls and instrumentation, enabling more 
precise data to be collected during test runs 
while simultaneously allowing operators to  
be removed from the immediate vicinity of the 
high-pressure equipment and the potentially 
aggressive chemical environment. This equipment 
is being used to study potential processes for the 
Mantoverde and Pebble orebodies. A new X-ray 
photo-electron spectroscope was commissioned 
during 2007 and is being used to study the 
surface chemistry of complex mineralogical 
samples, so that more precisely tailored 
processes can be developed for recovering them. 
Anglo American has one of the largest project 
development portfolios in the mining industry. 
The growing influence of governments, local 
communities and NGOs, coupled with constraints 
on skills and resources such as water and energy, 
has prompted a reassessment of the way in 
which major projects are designed, assessed 
and implemented. A suite of tools and procedures, 
developed internally and in conjunction with 
international partners, is being rolled out across 
the Group to assist project managers in ensuring 
that due consideration is given to all relevant 
factors over the lifetime of each project.
Exploration
Exploration continues to be one of the key 
growth activities for Anglo American, in 
greenfield and brownfield exploration, and in 
the identification of exploration properties for 
acquisition or company involvement. The 
continuing strong markets for mineral products, 
worries about global energy security and an 
upsurge in ‘resource nationalism’ are producing 
a challenging environment for mineral discovery 
and production. This is prompting an intense 
competition for exploration land holdings, 
moves towards increasing around-mine 
exploration for a ‘quick’ exploration discovery, 
and the growth of mergers and acquisitions, 
joint ventures and inter-company exploration 
alliances. In 2007, the Group spent $283 million 
on exploration in 25 countries, (including 
“ The Group’s wide  
portfolio of technology 
expertise makes it an 
attractive partner for other 
companies wishing to 
develop mineral properties 
that had previously been 
considered too difficult  
or uneconomic to mine 
successfully” Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 27
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Group financial  
performance
2007 was a year of change for the Group – one 
in which it continued to deliver strong returns 
for shareholders while streamlining the 
business and laying the foundations for greater 
efficiency gains and stronger growth into  
the future.
Throughout the financial review, the Group 
results are presented on a continuing basis 
unless otherwise stated.
Financial review of  
Group results
Group underlying earnings per share on a 
continuing basis for the year were $4.18,  
an increase of 22% compared with 2006.  
On a total Group basis, including results from 
discontinued operations, underlying earnings 
per share were $4.40. Group underlying 
earnings on a continuing basis totalled  
$5,477 million, with record contributions from 
Base Metals, Platinum, Ferrous Metals’ core 
businesses and Industrial Minerals, as well as  
a strong contribution from De Beers. Higher prices 
realised in the year, in particular for the 
platinum group metals (PGMs), nickel, lead, 
niobium and iron ore, were the main driver for 
the increase in Group underlying earnings. 
Increased volumes at copper, zinc and iron ore 
operations also contributed to the increase. 
Underlying earnings at De Beers were higher 
than the prior year, principally reflecting higher 
income from joint ventures and a modest 
increase in diamond prices in 2007. Coal 
recorded lower underlying earnings due to a 
significant reduction in Australia’s contribution. 
This was driven by the impact of port and rail 
constraints necessitating stockpiles and slowing 
of production, resulting in higher demurrage 
charges, as well as the impact of the weak 
dollar relative to local currency and lower sales 
prices. The contributions from both Paper and 
Packaging and AngloGold Ashanti were lower 
than the prior year due to the demerger of 
Mondi in early July and the reduction of the 
Group’s shareholding in AngloGold Ashanti from 
41.6% to 17.3% on 2 October. At 31 December 
2007, the Group’s shareholding in AngloGold 
Ashanti was 16.6%. The results of both 
AngloGold Ashanti and Paper and Packaging are 
shown as discontinued operations.
Profit for the year after special items and 
remeasurements increased by 2.8% to 
$5,294 million compared with $5,149 million 
in the prior year. The increase relates mainly to 
strong operational results, as discussed above 
and in the chief executive’s statement, and an 
increase in net profit on disposals, partly  
offset by higher operational special charges, 
particularly in the Group’s associates. 
Net profit on disposals of $484 million 
which, including associates, was $37 million 
higher than 2006, includes the net profit of 
$140 million on disposal of the remaining 
29.2% shareholding in Highveld and the part-
disposal of the investment of shares in Exxaro 
generating a $234 million profit on disposal. 
The Group’s results are influenced by  
a variety of currencies owing to the geographic 
diversity of the Group. The South African rand 
on average weakened slightly against the dollar 
compared with the prior year, with an average 
exchange rate of R7.05 compared with R6.77  
in 2006. Currency movements positively 
impacted underlying earnings by $27 million. 
Operating results benefited from weaker 
average rates for the rand, although this was 
offset by the stronger Chilean peso, Brazilian 
real and Australian dollar. Industrial Minerals’ 
operations benefited from the strength of 
certain European currencies against the dollar. 
There was a significant beneficial effect on 
underlying earnings from increased prices 
amounting to $1,302 million, particularly  
in respect of nickel and PGMs. 
Underlying earnings
$ million
Year ended  
31 Dec 2007
Year ended
31 Dec 2006
(1)
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders 5,294 5,149 
Operating special items including associates 713 458
Operating remeasurements including associates (2) (35)
Net profit on disposals including associates (484) (447)
Financing special items – 4
Financing remeasurements including associates:
 Exchange loss/(gain) on De Beers preference shares 3 (40)
 Unrealised net gains on non-hedge derivatives (28) (4)
Tax on special items and remeasurements including associates 15 (58)
Minority interests on special items and remeasurements including 
associates (34) (8) 
underlying earnings – continuing operations 5,477 5,019
underlying earnings – discontinued operations 284 452
underlying earnings – total Group 5,761 5,471
underlying earnings per share ($) – continuing operations 4.18 3.42
underlying earnings per share ($) – discontinued operations 0.22 0.31
underlying earnings per share ($) – total Group 4.40 3.73
(1)
Comparatives have been adjusted to reclassify amounts relating to discontinued operations. 28 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Summary income statement
$ million
Year ended  
31 Dec 2007
Year ended
31 Dec 2006
(2)
Operating profit before special items and remeasurements 8,518 8,048
Operating special items (251) (424)
Operating remeasurements 5 18
Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures 8,272 7,642
Net profit on disposals 460 265
Share of net income from associates – continuing operations
(1)
197 607
Total profit from operations and associates 8,929 8,514
Net finance costs before special items and remeasurements (137) (110)
Financing special items and remeasurements 29 39
Profit before tax 8,821 8,443
Income tax expense (2,693) (2,518)
Profit for the financial year – continuing operations 6,128 5,925
Minority interests (834) (776)
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders – 
continuing operations 5,294 5,149
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders – 
discontinued operations 2,010 1,037
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders – 
total Group 7,304 6,186
Basic earnings per share ($) – continuing operations 4.04 3.51
Basic earnings per share ($) – discontinued operations 1.54 0.70
Basic earnings per share ($) – total Group 5.58 4.21
Group operating profit including associates before special items and 
remeasurements – continuing operations 9,590 8,888
Group operating profit including associates before special items and 
remeasurements – discontinued operations 526
 
944
Group operating profit including associates before special items and 
remeasurements – total Group 10,116 9,832
(1)
 Operating profit from associates before special items and remeasurements – continuing operations 1,072 840
Operating special items and remeasurements
(3)
(465) (17)
Net profit on disposals
(3)
24 182
Net finance costs (before remeasurements) (85) (70)
Financing remeasurements
(3)
(4) 1
Income tax expense (after special items and remeasurements) (303) (300)
Minority interests (after special items and remeasurements) (42) (29)
Share of net income from associates – continuing operations 197 607
(2)
 Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations.
(3)
 See note 7 to the financial statements.
Special items and remeasurements
$ million
Excluding 
associates 
31 Dec 2007
 
Associates  
31 Dec 2007
 
Total 
31 Dec 2007
Excluding
 associates
31 Dec 2006
(1)
 
Associates
31 Dec 2006
(1)
 
Total
31 Dec 2006
(1)
Operating  
special items (251) (462) (713) (424) (34) (458)
Operating 
remeasurements 5 (3) 2 18 17 35
Operating  
special items and 
remeasurements (246) (465) (711) (406) (17) (423)
(1)
  Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations.
Operating special items and remeasurements, 
including associates, amounted to $711 million, 
with $653 million operating special charges in 
respect of impairments, restructurings and mine 
and operation closures, including a $434 million 
impairment relating to the Group’s share of  
an impairment of De Beers’ Canadian assets, 
$153 million impairment against certain Coal 
Australia assets and a combined impairment 
and restructuring charge relating to certain  
non-core assets to be sold and other assets  
to be restructured at Industrial Minerals of 
$43 million.
Net profit on sale of operations, including 
associates, amounted to $484 million 
(2006: $447 million), and is mainly a result of 
the profit on disposal of the remaining 29.2% 
shareholding in Highveld ($140 million) and  
the part disposal of the investment in shares  
in Exxaro generating a $234 million profit  
on disposal. 
Financing remeasurements, including 
associates, are made up of unrealised net gains 
of $28 million on non-hedge derivatives and  
a $3 million foreign exchange loss on De Beers 
dollar preference shares held by a rand 
denominated entity.
The De Beers US dollar preference shares 
held by a rand functional currency entity are 
classified as ‘financial asset investments’ and 
are retranslated at each period end. The resulting 
rand:US dollar foreign exchange gains and 
losses are reported through the income 
statement as a remeasurement charge. 
Net finance costs
Net finance costs from continuing operations, 
excluding special items and remeasurements  
of $29 million gain (2006: gain of $39 million), 
increased from $110 million in 2006 to  
$137 million. The increase reflects higher 
interest costs due to the increase in net debt.
Group overview continued Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 29
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Discontinued operations
$ million
Year ended  
31 Dec 2007
Year ended
31 Dec 2006
Profit for the financial year – discontinued operations 
Special items and remeasurements
318
(77)
593
404
Profit for the financial year after special items and 
remeasurements – discontinued operations 
Net profit after tax on disposal and demerger  
of discontinued operations
241 
 
1,803
997 
 
–
Total profit for the financial year – discontinued operations 
Minority interests – discontinued operations
2,044
(34)
997
40
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity 
shareholders – discontinued operations
 
2,010
 
1,037
Taxation
$ million (unless 
otherwise stated)
Before special 
items and 
remeasure-
ments  
31 Dec 2007
Associates’ 
tax and 
minority 
interests  
31 Dec 2007
Including 
associates 
31 Dec 2007
Before special
 items and 
remeasure-
ments 
31 Dec 2006
(1)
Associates’
tax and 
minority 
interests 
31 Dec 2006
(1)
Including
 associates 
31 Dec 2006
(1)
Profit before tax 9,021 347 9,368 8,401 307 8,708
Tax (2,676) (305) (2,981) (2,598) (278) (2,876)
Profit for the 
financial year 6,345 42 6,387 5,803 29 5,832
Effective tax  
rate including 
associates (%) 31.8 33.0
(1)
  Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations.
Balance sheet
Equity attributable to equity shareholders  
of the Company was $22,461 million compared 
with $24,271 million at 31 December 2006. 
The $3 billion share buyback programme 
announced in February was completed in 
October 2007 and the additional share buyback 
programme of $4 billion, announced in August, is 
33% complete with around $1.3 billion of shares 
having been repurchased at 19 February 2008. 
Net debt, excluding hedges but including 
balances that have been reclassified as held  
for sale ($69 million), was $5,239 million, an 
increase of $1.9 billion from 31 December 2006. 
The increase reflects the impact of the share 
buyback, increased planned capital expenditure 
on projects in Platinum, Base Metals and Coal 
and the acquisition of MMX Minas-Rio for 
$1.15 billion, partly offset by strong operating 
cash flows, proceeds from disposals and the 
impact of the Mondi demerger.
Discontinued operations
On 2 July 2007, the Paper and Packaging 
business was demerged from the Group  
by way of a dividend in specie paid to 
shareholders.
On 2 October 2007, the Group sold 
67.1 million shares in AngloGold Ashanti, 
which reduced the Group’s shareholding from 
41.6% to 17.3%. The remaining investment 
is accounted as a financial asset investment. 
The Group has subsequently reduced its 
shareholding in AngloGold Ashanti, which at  
31 December 2007 was 16.6%.
Net profit after tax on disposal and 
demerger of discontinued operations amounted 
to $1,803 million and is principally as a result of 
the sale of 67.1 million shares in AngloGold 
Ashanti on 2 October 2007. Proceeds on sale of 
these shares are the major contributor to net 
cash inflows from investing activities of 
discontinued operations of $2.6 billion.
Both of these operations are considered 
discontinued. Please refer to note 33 for  
further details on the demerger of Paper  
and Packaging and the disposal of  
AngloGold Ashanti.
Taxation
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 
requires income from associates to be presented 
net of tax on the face of the income statement. 
Associates’ tax is therefore not included within 
the Group’s total tax charge on the face of the 
income statement. Associates’ tax before 
special items and remeasurements included 
within ‘Share of net income from associates’  
for the year ended 31 December 2007 was 
$305 million (2006: $278 million).
The effective rate of tax before special 
items and remeasurements including share of 
associates’ tax on a continuing basis was 31.8%. 
This was a decrease from the equivalent 
effective rate of 33.0% in the year ended  
31 December 2006. The main reasons for this 
net decrease are reduced levels of tax on 
distributions, changes in statutory tax rates, 
prior year adjustments and the availability of 
enhanced tax depreciation on certain assets. 30 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Net debt at 31 December 2007 comprised 
$8,313 million of debt, offset by $3,074 million 
of cash and cash equivalents. Net debt to total 
capital
(1)
 at 31 December 2007 was 20.0%, 
compared with 12.9% at 31 December 2006.
Cash flow
$ million
Year 
ended 
31 Dec 
2007
Year 
ended 
31 Dec 
2006
Net cash inflows from 
operating activities – 
continuing operations 6,800 7,337
Net cash inflows from 
operating activities – 
discontinued operations 464 973
Net cash inflows from 
operating activities –  
total Group 7,264 8,310
Net cash inflows from operating activities on a 
continuing basis were $6,800 million compared 
with $7,337 million in 2006. EBITDA from 
continuing operations was $11,171 million, an 
increase of 7% from $10,431 million in 2006.
Acquisition expenditure from continuing 
operations accounted for an outflow of 
$1,934 million compared with $197 million in 
2006. This included $1.15 billion in respect of 
the Group’s acquisition of a 49% interest in the 
MMX Minas-Rio integrated iron ore project in 
Brazil and $658 million in respect of the Group’s 
investment in 4.4 million ordinary shares in 
Anglo Platinum Limited.
Proceeds from disposals on a continuing 
basis totalled $711 million, including net 
proceeds on the sale of the remaining 29.2% 
shareholding in Highveld of $182 million and 
$456 million proceeds from the part-disposal  
of the investment in shares in Exxaro.
Repayment of loans and capital from 
associates on a continuing basis amounted  
to $119 million, of which $43 million relates  
to the redemption of De Beers preference shares. 
Purchases of tangible assets amounted to 
$3,931 million, an increase of $1,022 million. 
Increased capital expenditure by Platinum, Coal, 
and Base Metals was partly offset by lower 
spend at Ferrous Metals and Industrial Minerals.
 
(1)
  Net debt to total capital is calculated as net debt divided by total 
capital less investments in associates. Total capital is net assets 
excluding net debt.
Analysis of depreciation and 
amortisation by business segment  
(subsidiaries and joint ventures)
$ million
Year 
ended 
31 Dec 
2007
Year 
ended 
31 Dec 
2006
Platinum 455 444
Coal 221 173
Base Metals 344 357
Industrial Minerals 258 224
Ferrous Metals and 
Industries 100 199
Other 20 17
1,398 1,414
 
*  In 2007, Copebrás and Yang Quarry were reclassified from 
Industrial Minerals to Base Metals and Coal respectively, to align 
with internal management reporting. As such, the comparative data 
has been reclassified.
Analysis of capital expenditure on a 
cash flow basis by business segment 
(subsidiaries and joint ventures)
$ million
Year 
ended 
31 Dec 
2007
Year 
ended 
31 Dec 
2006
Platinum 1,479 923
Coal 1,052 782
Base Metals 610 315
Industrial Minerals 274 279
Ferrous Metals and 
Industries 470 581
Other 46 29
Purchase of tangible 
assets 3,931 2,909
Investment in biological 
assets 1 1
3,932 2,910
 
*  In 2007, Copebrás and Yang Quarry were reclassified from 
Industrial Minerals to Base Metals and Coal respectively, to align 
with internal management reporting. As such, the comparative data 
has been reclassified.
Weighted average number of shares
The weighted average number of shares used  
to determine earnings per share in 2007 was 
1,309 million compared with 1,468 million in 
2006. This reflects the effect of the share 
buyback programme, as well as the Anglo 
American share consolidation on the demerger 
of Mondi which, on 2 July 2007, resulted in  
100 existing Anglo American ordinary shares 
being exchanged for 91 new Anglo American 
ordinary shares. 
Dividends
A final dividend of 86 cents per share, to be paid 
on 30 April 2008, has been recommended.
Analysis of dividends
US cents per share
Year 
ended 
31 Dec 
2007
Year 
ended 
31 Dec 
2006
Interim dividend 38 33
Recommended final 
dividend 86 75
Normal dividend 124 108
Special dividend 
previously paid – 67
Total dividends 124 175
Return on capital employed (ROCE)
ROCE on a continuing basis in 2007 was 37.8% 
compared with 32.4% in 2006. The increase  
was mainly due to strong operational results,  
as discussed on page 27.
Group overview continued Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 31
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
In each business unit overview on the 
following pages, operating profit 
includes associates’ operating profit 
and is before special items and 
remeasurements, unless otherwise 
stated. Capital expenditure relates  
to cash expenditure on tangible and 
biological assets. Share of Group 
operating profit and share of Group  
net operating assets for both 2007 
and 2006 are based on continuing 
operations and therefore exclude  
the contribution of Mondi and 
AngloGold Ashanti.
Platinum
Operating profit
2006
$2,398 m
2007
$2,697 m
EBITDA
2006
$2,845 m
2007
$3,155 m
•  World’s leading primary producer 
of platinum
•  Seven greenfield developments  
under way
•  Ongoing strong demand from 
autocatalyst and jewellery sectors
 
 
Business overview
Anglo Platinum Limited, based in South Africa, 
is the world’s leading primary producer of 
platinum, accounting for about 37% of global 
newly mined output. It mines, processes and 
refines the entire platinum group metals  
“ Anglo Platinum’s 
operations exploit the 
world’s richest reserve  
of PGMs, known as the 
Bushveld Complex, which 
contains PGM-bearing 
Merensky, UG2 and 
Platreef ores”
Below: Section of Rustenburg Platinum 
Mines’ Waterval smelter where PGM-bearing 
ore is smelted prior to further refining
Business unit overview
(PGMs) range: platinum, palladium, rhodium, 
ruthenium, iridium and osmium. Although PGMs 
are the primary products of its operations,  
base metals such as nickel, copper and cobalt 
sulphate are important secondary products and 
are significant contributors to earnings.
Anglo Platinum’s operations exploit the 
world’s richest reserve of PGMs, known as the 
Bushveld Complex, which contains PGM-bearing 
Merensky, UG2 and Platreef ores. The company 
has access to an excellent portfolio of ore 
reserves to ensure that it is well placed to be 
the world’s leading platinum producer for many 
years to come.
Anglo Platinum currently wholly owns  
five mining operations, a tailings retreatment 
facility, three smelters, a base metals refinery 
and a precious metals refinery, all in the Limpopo 
and North West provinces of South Africa.  
Each of its mines operates its own concentrator 
facilities, with smelting and refining of the 
output being undertaken at its Rustenburg 
Platinum Mines’ metallurgical facilities.
The company’s 100% owned mining 
operations comprise Rustenburg Platinum Mines’ 
Rustenburg, Amandelbult and Twickenham 
sections, as well as Potgietersrust Platinums 
Limited (PPRust) and Lebowa Platinum Mines 
Limited, 51% of which is held for sale. Rustenburg 
Platinum Mines’ Union Section is 85% held,  
with a black economic empowerment (BEE) 
consortium, the Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela traditional 
community, holding the remainder. 
Anglo Platinum also has a 50:50 joint 
venture with a BEE consortium, led by African 
Rainbow Minerals, over the Modikwa platinum 
mine; a joint venture with Royal Bafokeng 
Resources, a BEE partner, over the combined 
Bafokeng-Rasimone platinum mine and Styldrift 
properties; and a joint venture with Xstrata over 
the Mototolo mine. In addition, Anglo Platinum 
has joint ventures with Aquarius Platinum 
covering the shallow reserves of the Kroondal 
and Marikana mines and portions of the reserves  
at Anglo Platinum’s Rustenburg Section. 
In September 2007, Anglo Platinum agreed 
to sell assets for R7.6 billion (about $1.1 billion) 
to historically disadvantaged South African 
(HDSA) companies Anooraq Resources and 
Mvela Resources. As part of the deal, an effective 
51% of Lebowa Platinum and 1% of the adjacent 
Ga-Phasha project are being sold to Anooraq, 
which will then own 51% of Lebowa and  
Ga-Phasha. Mvela is to acquire Anglo Platinum’s 
50% interest in the Booysendal project as well 
as Anglo Platinum’s 22.4% shareholding in 
Northam Platinum Limited.  32 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Business unit overview continued
jewellery market, followed by Japan and  
North America.
Industrial applications for platinum are 
driven by technology and, especially in the case 
of autocatalysts, by legislation. Technological 
development continues to drive industrial 
demand and ongoing research into new 
applications will create further growth in  
this sector. With the rapid spread of exhaust 
emissions legislation, more than 93% of new 
vehicles sold in the world now have autocatalysts 
fitted. The intensifying stringency of emissions 
legislation will drive growth in PGM demand for 
autocatalysts as new legislation is applied to 
trucks and off road vehicles in the US. In Europe, 
the increasing popularity of diesel powered 
vehicles, which can only use autocatalysts that 
are predominantly platinum-based, continues 
and will further intensify demand.
Interest in fuel cell technology has accelerated 
dramatically over the past decade, largely on 
the back of rising concerns about environmental 
degradation and energy costs. At present, 
demand is small, but gradual medium to long 
term growth, first in small battery replacement 
applications and stationary fuel cells, and later 
with the commercialisation of fuel cell vehicles, 
is envisaged.
Palladium’s principal application is in 
autocatalysts (around 50% of net demand). 
Palladium is also used in electronic components, 
in dental alloys and more recently as an 
emerging jewellery metal in markets such as 
China. Palladium demand growth is expected  
to slow against a backdrop of increasing supply 
expected from South African expansions and 
recycling from spent autocatalysts.
Rhodium is an important metal in 
autocatalytic activity, which accounts for nearly 
85% of net demand. The metal is also used in 
industrial applications such as glass-making for 
flat panel display units. In the short to medium 
term, the market supply and demand balance  
is expected to remain tight, supported by 
autocatalyst growth and glass demand for  
flat screen televisions. Thrifting (using less 
metal, typically in thinner coatings, to achieve 
the same catalytic effect) and increased supply 
from UG2 reef expansions may ease the market 
balance in the longer term.
The other three PGMs produced are 
ruthenium, iridium and osmium. In recent times, 
ruthenium has enjoyed strong uptake on the 
back of heavy demand from the electronics 
sector, where the metal is utilised to increase 
magnetic data-recording memory in hard disks 
and in plasma display panels of flat screen 
televisions. Ruthenium, along with iridium,  
is also used in chemical and electronic 
applications. Osmium is employed as a catalyst 
in the pharmaceutical industrial sector and  
to stain specimens for microscopic analysis. 
Strategy and growth
Anglo Platinum’s strategy is to develop the 
market for PGMs, expand production into that 
growth opportunity and conduct its business 
safely, cost effectively and competitively.
Growing demand is achieved by substantial 
investment in research and development into new 
uses for PGMs, through partners and customers 
including Johnson Matthey plc (Anglo Platinum  
has a 17.5% stake in Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells 
Limited), and global development campaigns for 
jewellery through the Platinum Guild International. 
These investments enable Anglo Platinum to meet 
its objective of growing the market.
 Industry overview
PGMs have a wide range of industrial and  
high-technology applications. Demand for 
platinum is driven by its use in autocatalysts  
to control emissions from both petrol and diesel 
engine vehicles, and in jewellery. These uses 
are responsible for 71% of net total platinum 
consumption. Platinum, however, also has an 
enormous range of lesser-known applications, 
predominantly in the chemical, electrical, 
medical, glass and petroleum industries.
The platinum jewellery market requires 
constant promotion and development and  
Anglo Platinum is the major supporter of the 
Platinum Guild International, which since its 
inception in 1975 has played a key role in 
encouraging demand for platinum and establishing 
new platinum jewellery markets. Since 2000, 
China has been the number one platinum  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 33
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
In order to meet increased demand, Anglo 
Platinum is targeting expanding production at an 
average compound growth rate of 5% per annum. 
Expansion will come from the development of 
Anglo Platinum’s own extensive resources as well 
as those where Anglo Platinum is in joint venture 
partnerships. This growth profile requires projects 
that will create additional new production as 
well as maintain existing production levels owing 
to reserve depletion from current mining activities.
Anglo Platinum’s announced expansion 
programme and ore replacement projects 
underpin a sustained high level of exploration 
activities. Exploration is mainly directed at 
accumulating geological data in areas where 
PGM orebodies are known to occur and is thus 
primarily focused on quantifying ore reserves 
and mineral resources in the Bushveld Complex.
Anglo Platinum is involved in developing 
mining activity for PGMs on the Great Dyke of 
Zimbabwe. The Great Dyke is the second largest 
known repository of platinum after the Bushveld 
Complex. Development and exploration work is 
focused on new projects in the area, including 
the Unki mine, as well as establishing extensions 
to the resource base for future projects. In addition, 
Anglo Platinum is involved in exploration 
activities in Canada, Russia, Brazil and China.
Financial overview
Anglo Platinum’s operating profit rose by 12% 
to $2,697 million. This was mainly due to a 
higher price achieved for the basket of metals 
sold and a weaker average rand relative to the 
dollar, offset by lower sales volumes on the back 
of reduced production from mining operations.
The average dollar price realised for the 
basket of metals sold equated to $2,579 per 
platinum ounce, 27% higher than in 2006,  
with firmer platinum, rhodium and nickel prices 
making the largest contribution to the increase. 
The average realised price for platinum was 
$162 higher than in 2006 at $1,302 per ounce, 
while nickel averaged $17.04 per pound against 
$10.73 in 2006. The realised rhodium price 
averaged $4,344 per ounce, an increase of 
$802 per ounce over 2006, and includes the 
effect of existing long term contractual 
arrangements with some customers, entered 
into to support and develop the rhodium market. 
Anglo Platinum is at an advanced stage of 
negotiations to achieve mutual recognition with 
its relevant customers of structural changes to 
the rhodium market affecting the dollar price of 
the metal. The objective of the negotiations is 
to move towards a contractual price for rhodium 
which is market related. The year also saw a 
significant increase in the price of ruthenium 
following strong growth in demand, driven by 
its use in hard disk drives. This new use and  
its relative price insensitivity have resulted in  
a structural change to the market.
Markets
Current high dollar PGM market prices partly 
reflect the up-cycle being enjoyed by most 
commodities, but are supported by strong 
market fundamentals, in particular for platinum. 
Long term demand for the metal is expected to 
remain robust, based on tightening automotive 
emissions legislation, buoyant demand in the 
relatively price resilient Chinese jewellery 
market, growth in existing applications and 
emerging fuel cell technology.
Supplies of and demand for platinum are 
expected to grow and the market is expected to 
remain balanced over the medium term, with 
short term deficits associated with reduced 
South African output. Palladium demand is also 
expected to grow but, against a backdrop of 
increasing supply from South African expansions 
on higher palladium content UG2 ore, remains 
adequately supplied. The increased supply of 
rhodium from expansionary activity should ease 
pressure on current prices in the longer term.
Operating performance
Anglo Platinum remains committed to the 
principle of zero harm and has implemented a 
major shift in its approach to safety. In addition, 
steps have been implemented to align Anglo 
Platinum’s approach to employee safety to that 
adopted by the Group. 
The creation of a culture in which safety 
standards are paramount, with effective learning 
from safety incidents to ensure ‘no repeats’, 
underlines this new approach. This includes  
a visible, felt commitment from leadership to 
eliminate harm and increase capacity to manage 
safety risks wherever they may occur. 
Clarity of personal and collective 
responsibilities, and rigid and consistent 
application of standards, lie at the heart of the 
new approach to safety, which is being 
implemented at all Anglo Platinum operations.
A significant deterioration in safety 
performance occurred in the first half of 2007, 
with 18 fatal incidents, 12 of which occurred at 
Rustenburg mine. A decision was taken to suspend 
production at all Rustenburg shafts on a staggered 
basis. Following the temporary closure of 
Rustenburg, senior management and other 
relevant stakeholders developed a comprehensive 
enhanced safety improvement plan, which is 
being implemented over the next three years. 
In the second half of 2007, following the initial 
intervention, the lost time injury frequency rate at 
managed operations reduced to 1.71 compared 
with 2.37 as recorded in the first half of the year. 
see also
p
27
Group financial performance
p
10
Our strategy in action
“ Anglo Platinum’s strategy 
is to develop the market 
for PGMs, expand 
production into that 
growth opportunity  
and conduct its business 
safely, cost effectively  
and competitively”
$ million  
(unless otherwise stated) 2007 2006
Operating profit 2,697 2,398
EBITDA 3,155 2,845
Net operating assets 9,234 7,078
Capital expenditure 1,479 923
Share of Group 
operating profit 28% 27%
Share of Group net 
operating assets 35% 33% 34 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Business unit overview continued
The cash operating cost per equivalent refined 
platinum ounce in rand terms increased by 34% 
due to reduced production, substantial 
inflationary pressures including above inflation 
increases in wages, diesel, tyres, chemicals and 
steel grinding media, costs associates with the 
safety intervention, increased support costs 
and ramp up costs at Mototolo and Marikana. 
In addition, an increase in labour complement 
to support a planned increase in production in 
mining operations in 2007 further contributed 
to the increase in unit cost.
Projects
The implementation of the majority of Anglo 
Platinum’s mining and processing projects, to 
expand and maintain production, continues on 
schedule. Marikana and Mototolo (which delivered 
first production in the last quarter of 2006) both 
increased production in 2007, adding a combined 
92,800 equivalent refined platinum ounces.
Anglo Platinum approved capital 
expenditure totalling $1,520 million in 2007. 
Major items included the expansion of the base 
metals refinery plant to 33,000 tonnes per 
annum of contained nickel by the end of 2010 
and the Townlands ore replacement project, at 
a capital cost of $139 million, which will replace 
70,000 ounces of refined platinum per annum 
from 2014, with production expected from the 
new Merensky and UG2 areas at the Rustenburg 
Townlands shaft.
The $188 million Mainstream inert grind 
projects were approved in November 2007. 
These projects will improve mineral liberation 
and metallurgical performance within the 
process flow of the current concentrators,  
and will result in an increase in PGM recovery.
The PPRust North expansion project, which 
will mill an additional 600,000 tonnes of ore 
per month, is progressing. Commissioning of the 
new concentrator has commenced. The relocation 
of the Ga-Puka and Ga-Sekhaolelo communities 
commenced in July 2007 under the guidance  
of a representative task team facilitated by the 
office of the premier of Limpopo.
The Amandelbult East Upper UG2 project, 
which will contribute an additional 100,000 ounces 
of refined platinum per annum by 2012, 
is progressing on schedule. The Rustenburg 
Paardekraal 2 shaft replacement project is 
in progress and is expected to produce 
120,000 ounces of refined platinum annually by 
2015, replacing decreasing production as a result 
of continuing Merensky ore reserve depletion.
The strong global demand for resources is 
placing material inflationary pressure on capital 
expenditure and the ability to meet project 
schedules, the effect of which was experienced 
in the latter part of 2007. These pressures are 
likely to continue in the foreseeable future.
Outlook
Anglo Platinum’s commitment to safety, including 
the principle of zero harm, will continue to be an 
area of focus in 2008. The new approach to safety, 
together with operational difficulties, has had  
a material impact on performance in 2007, 
which is likely to continue in 2008. Production 
disruptions arising from Eskom’s inability to supply 
sufficient power have been experienced in 2008. 
Consequently, refined platinum production for 
2008 is expected to be 2.4 million ounces.
A combination of a weak dollar, robust 
demand for platinum and slower than 
anticipated supply growth is supportive of 
higher dollar prices. The autocatalyst sector 
remains buoyant, driven by rising European 
demand for diesel vehicles and their associated 
catalyst and filter requirements as well as 
growing Asian automotive production. 
Purchases of newly mined platinum for 
jewellery manufacturing in China are holding up 
well in the face of record prices, but new metal 
demand is declining in the Japanese and US 
jewellery markets as recycling of old jewellery is 
encouraged by the higher price levels. Industrial 
demand remains firm, particularly in the 
electrical and petroleum sectors.
Palladium demand for autocatalyst and 
industrial applications continues to grow, 
supported by the low price relative to platinum. 
Jewellery demand is expected to take 
increasing market share from white gold 
as palladium prices have lagged the recent 
significant increase in the gold price. Palladium 
prices continue to trade in a narrow band and 
remain vulnerable to a change in investor and 
fund sentiment.
Prices for rhodium are anticipated to stay 
strong as the market remains finely balanced.
 Equivalent refined platinum production 
(equivalent ounces are mined ounces converted 
to expected refined ounces) from the mines 
managed by Anglo Platinum and its joint 
venture partners for 2007 decreased by 
167,200 ounces or 6% when compared with 
2006. This was due to the intervention aimed 
at achieving a significant improvement in 
employee safety, as well as reduced production 
efficiency following a shortage of skilled labour, 
strike action at joint ventures, the unsettled 
labour situation associated with wage 
negotiations and lower grades at Potgietersrust. 
Refined platinum production for 2007 
decreased by 12% to 2.47 million ounces. The 
decrease is attributable to the reduced production 
experienced in 2007 as well as the one-off 
release of 112,000 ounces from the process 
pipeline in 2006, due to the effect of the 
shutdown of the Polokwane smelter in late 2005.  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 35
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Diamonds
Share of associate’s operating profit
2006
$463 m
2007
$484 m
EBITDA
2006
$541 m
2007
$587 m
•  De Beers remains world leader  
in diamonds after 120 years
•  Diamond production again exceeds 
51 million carats 
•  Resilience of diamond jewellery 
market underpinned by China  
going forward
Business overview
Anglo American’s diamond interests are 
represented by its 45% shareholding in  
De Beers. The other shareholders in De Beers 
are Central Holdings Limited (an Oppenheimer 
family owned company), which owns 40%,  
and the Government of the Republic of 
Botswana (GRB) with 15%. 
De Beers is the world’s leading diamond 
business, with expertise in the exploration, 
mining and marketing of diamonds. De Beers 
and its joint venture partners operate in more 
than 20 countries across five continents, 
employing nearly 22,000 people. From its  
15 mines across Botswana, Canada, Namibia, 
South Africa and Tanzania, De Beers produces 
approximately 40% of the world’s rough 
diamonds by value.
De Beers holds a 50% interest in both the 
Debswana Diamond Company (Proprietary) 
Limited and Namdeb Diamond Corporation 
(Proprietary) Limited, owned jointly with the 
GRB and the Government of the Republic of 
Namibia (GRN), respectively, and a 70% 
shareholding in De Beers Marine Namibia.  
The company also has a 75% interest in 
Williamson Diamonds Limited in Tanzania. 
In addition, De Beers holds a 74% interest  
in South African-based De Beers Consolidated 
Mines Limited (DBCM), with a black economic 
empowerment (BEE) group (the Ponahalo interest 
consortium) holding an indirect 26% interest. 
De Beers owns 100% of Diamond Trading 
Company International (DTCI). It also has a 
50% interest with the GRB in Diamond Trading 
Company Botswana (DTCB), which will sort and 
value Botswana’s diamond output as well as 
performing local sales and marketing activities. 
Additionally, a 50% interest is held, along with 
the GRN, in Namibia Diamond Trading Company 
(NDTC) which will sort and value Namibia’s 
diamond output and carry out local sales and 
marketing activities.
Industry overview
Up to two-thirds of the world’s diamonds  
by value originate from southern and central 
Africa, while significant sources have been 
discovered in Russia, Australia and Canada. 
Annual diamond output amounts to 
approximately 156 million carats. 
Most diamonds come from the mining of 
kimberlite deposits. Another important source 
of gem diamonds, however, has been secondary 
alluvial deposits formed by the weathering  
of primary kimberlites and the subsequent 
deposition of released diamonds in rivers and 
beach gravels.
Rough or uncut diamonds are broadly classified 
either as gem diamonds or industrial quality 
diamonds, with gem representing by far the 
larger of the two markets by value. The primary 
world market for gem diamonds is in retail 
jewellery where aspects such as size, colour, 
shape and clarity have a large impact on 
valuation. De Beers, through DTCI, supplies its 
clients – known as sightholders – with parcels of 
rough diamonds that are specifically aligned to 
their respective cutting and polishing needs. 
De Beers and Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton 
have established a high-end retail jewellery joint 
venture, through De Beers Diamond Jewellers, 
with stores in the most fashionable areas of 
some of the world’s great cities, including  
New York, Los Angeles, London, Paris, Tokyo, 
Moscow and Dubai, with aggressive plans for 
expanding the global network in future.
De Beers, through Element Six, is a major 
producer of synthetic industrial diamond 
material; applications include cutting, grinding, 
polishing, wire making and other technical and 
scientific uses. Element Six has a significant 
share in the oil and gas drilling business and has 
expanded recently by building an industrial 
diamond plant in China and the acquisition of  
a majority stake in a plant in Ukraine. In 2007, 
Element Six further enhanced its hard material 
portfolio by successfully completing the 
acquisition of Barat Carbide in Germany.  
With this step, Element Six acquired significant 
materials competence in carbide as well as 
market channels and application know-how in 
mining, road construction and for wear parts. 
With sales of well above $100 million, Barat 
Carbide is a large addition to the Element Six 
group, resulting in total annual sales of over  
$500 million for the combined entities.
Strategy and growth
During 2007, De Beers refocused its exploration 
activities, conducted a strategic review of 
mining assets and continued to invest in new 
mines. The company also restructured its mine 
portfolio, distribution and marketing activities 
and established new sales and marketing 
partnerships with producers in southern Africa. 
The review is an essential part of De Beers’ 
transformation and its business model is now 
focused on maximising consumer demand for 
diamonds, and not in maximising its market 
share. As part of its review, De Beers prioritised 
future investment in mining opportunities that fit 
its long term strategy. The sale of Cullinan, 
Koffiefontein and Kimberley underground mines 
together with some of the Kimberley tailings 
operations have been agreed and the merger of 
the West Coast operations of Alexkor with the 
 see also
p
27
Group financial performance
p
10
Our strategy in action 36 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Business unit overview continued
Namaqualand Mines into a new, stand-alone 
diamond mining company has been announced. 
The Koffiefontein mine in South Africa was sold 
to Petra Diamonds Limited in July 2007. Petra 
also reached agreement with De Beers to 
purchase the Kimberley underground mines in 
September 2007, with this transaction expected 
to be concluded in early 2008. The Cullinan mine 
has also been sold as a going concern to Petra in 
a BEE consortium for approximately R1 billion. 
The sale of Cullinan, consistent with the 
company’s strategy to operate mines best suited 
to the future plans of De Beers in South Africa, 
completes the restructuring of DBCM’s portfolio 
and will lead to improved returns on capital as 
new projects are commissioned in 2008.
De Beers is fully committed to 
implementing agreements with government 
partners that will lead to greater beneficiation  
in producer countries. Both NDTC and DTCB 
were established during 2006 to sort and value 
local diamond output as well as to perform local 
sales and marketing activities. The new joint 
ventures with the respective government 
partners will work towards the development  
of sustainable downstream diamond industries 
in Namibia and Botswana. 
DTCB is expected to be fully operational  
in early 2008 and all 16 of the country’s licence 
holders have been approved as sightholders, 
with contracts concluded for the years 2008  
to 2011. In total, approximately $360 million  
of rough diamonds are expected to be sold by 
DTCB to sightholders in 2008. 
NDTC announced its client list consisting  
of 11 sightholders on 3 October 2007. On  
29 October, those companies with operational 
factories as of 18 July received their first 
supplies for cutting and polishing in Namibia 
and the remainder will receive supply from  
31 March 2008.
With the establishment of the State Diamond 
Trader (SDT) in South Africa, De Beers and the 
Department of Minerals and Energy (DME) of 
the Republic of South Africa have agreed that 
De Beers will make its management and 
technical expertise available to the DME for the 
next three years to facilitate the start up of the 
SDT. De Beers, like all other South African 
diamond producers, will be selling up to 10%  
of its production to the SDT.
Following a review of the DTCI operations,  
a decision was taken to maximise downstream 
effectiveness by establishing two separate 
divisions. The new De Beers Group Marketing 
(DBGM) unit will now be responsible for the 
marketing activity previously undertaken by 
DTCI, while DTCI will concentrate on purchasing, 
sorting and selling rough diamonds. 
Downstream, DBGM continues to drive 
consumer demand and stimulate growth in the 
industry through its own marketing initiatives 
and an increase in advertising programmes by 
the DTC’s clients, its downstream trade partners.
In exploration, De Beers is concentrating  
on projects in Angola, the Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC), Botswana, South Africa, 
Namibia, Canada and India. Exploration in the 
DRC and Angola, in conjunction with partners, 
is beginning to yield results as projects move 
from early to advanced stages. Advanced stage 
evaluation in Botswana has resulted in the 
potential development of AK06, a kimberlite mine 
in the Orapa region of Botswana. De Beers is 
conducting both early and advanced stage 
exploration activities in Canada focusing on the 
Slave and Superior craton target areas. 
In collaboration with Namdeb and DBCM and 
their associated partners, prioritised early stage 
exploration is being undertaken in northern 
Namibia and South Africa, respectively.
Financial overview
The Group’s share of operating profit from  
De Beers increased by 5% to $484 million. 
Earnings from joint ventures were higher than  
in 2006 and there was a modest rise in diamond 
prices in 2007, although the weakening of the 
dollar in the second half of the year had an impact 
on costs and margins. Diamond sales were 
lower than in 2006, resulting from diminishing 
supplies of rough diamonds to DTCI from the 
Russian state producer Alrosa. Underlying earnings 
at De Beers were higher than the prior year, 
principally reflecting an increased share of 
earnings from joint ventures and a tax refund to 
DBCM, which offset lower preference share income 
arising as a result of the June 2006 redemptions 
and higher minorities due to the Ponahalo BEE 
transaction which was completed in April 2006.
Above: Namdeb vessel Ya Toivo mines for 
diamonds off the coast of Namibia. Today, 
about half of Namdeb’s production comes 
from its marine operations
$ million  
(unless otherwise stated) 2007 2006
Share of associate’s 
operating profit 484 463
EBITDA 587 541
Group’s aggregate 
investment in De Beers 1,802 2,062
Share of Group 
operating profit 5% 5% Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 37
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
In the US, preliminary agreement was reached 
in March 2006 with all of the plaintiffs, which 
resolved all outstanding class actions in the 
US and settlements were paid into an escrow 
account pending conclusion of the settlement 
process. The matter is proceeding according 
to the timetable of the Court and De Beers 
anticipates that a Fairness Hearing will occur 
in the first half of 2008.
The Court of First Instance in Luxembourg 
announced in July 2007 that it had annulled  
the European Commission’s decision to accept 
commitments offered by De Beers to cease  
all purchase of rough diamonds from Alrosa 
from 1 January 2009. De Beers will continue  
to purchase goods from Alrosa, up to the agreed 
levels and within the proposed timeframe set 
out in the prior commitments.
In South Africa, De Beers was informed by 
the DME on 4 February 2008 that it has granted 
a new order mining right in respect of the 
Venetia mine, to be executed in March.  
De Beers has already been granted new order 
mining rights for Voorspoed and Cullinan and 
conversions for Namaqualand, Kimberley and 
Finsch mines are being processed by the DME.
De Beers has made an impairment charge  
of $965 million ($434 million attributable) 
against its Canadian assets. This non-cash 
valuation adjustment has been brought about 
by the strengthening of the Canadian dollar 
against the US dollar, revised long term crude  
oil prices, labour cost pressures and the effect 
of capital expenditure overruns at Snap Lake.
Markets
Early estimates indicate that the all important 
period from Thanksgiving to Christmas in the 
US saw sales of jewellery, including diamond 
jewellery, underperform against analysts’ and 
retailers’ expectations – despite a surge in the 
week before Christmas – with the result that 
sales are likely to have declined in comparison 
with prior years. Retail experts point to the 
2007 holiday season having started well, 
but consumers reduced spending amid financial 
concerns in the worsening economic 
environment, resulting in soft retail sales across 
the board, particularly for diamond jewellery.  
The majority of chains also reported lacklustre 
sales, with Tiffany, a benchmark for higher end 
branded jewellers, reporting negative sales 
growth in the US for November and December. 
Notwithstanding this, diamond jewellery sales 
growth was positive in the US for the first three 
quarters of 2007 and it is likely that full year 
results will show positive growth, though in low 
single digits.
Operating performance
In 2007, De Beers’ production was 51.1 million 
carats, maintaining the record production 
achieved in 2006. Output from the South African 
operations increased by 3% to 15.0 million 
carats, mainly due to improvements made to 
the diamond recovering process at Venetia mine 
which increased carat recovery by 9%. Output 
in Namibia rose by 4% to 2.2 million carats 
reflecting increased production from offshore 
operations. This offset a 2% decline in 
production from Debswana to 33.6 million 
carats. The industrial diamond arm, Element 
Six, continued to expand and recorded sales 
growth of 18% and organic growth of 10%.
Projects
Snap Lake in the Northwest Territories of 
Canada was brought into production in the 
fourth quarter of 2007. The mine is currently 
being commissioned and full production of 
1.6 million carats per year is expected to be 
achieved during 2008. By mid-2008, the Victor 
mine in Ontario is scheduled to enter production 
and is expected to produce 0.6 million carats of 
high quality diamonds per year. 
In Botswana, Debswana is reviewing 
expansion opportunities, the most significant of 
which is for a continuation of open pit operations 
at Jwaneng until 2022, when a transition to 
underground mining is planned. In mid-2007, 
the mv Peace in Africa, De Beers’ latest marine 
mining vessel, started operations off South 
Africa’s Atlantic coastline. It is expected to yield 
approximately 0.2 million carats per annum. 
Also in South Africa, the Voorspoed mine in the 
Free State is scheduled to commence production 
in the fourth quarter of 2008, reaching full 
production in 2009. Voorspoed is expected to 
produce 0.7 million carats per annum.
Outlook
The outlook for 2008 is tempered by uncertainty 
over global economic growth. 
The economic conditions in the US could 
continue to impact consumer diamond jewellery 
sales through the first half, particularly at the 
lower end. Nevertheless, strong demand from 
China, India and the Middle East is expected, 
sustaining pricing for larger and better quality 
diamonds.
Looking beyond 2008, De Beers is confident 
about the diamond market fundamentals. With 
strong growth in the emerging markets of China, 
India and Russia, demand should exceed new 
supply, with the opportunity for future price 
growth. In this environment, De Beers continues 
to focus on transforming itself to ensure it 
remains the leading company in an increasingly 
competitive diamond industry.
 “ In 2007, De Beers’ 
production was  
51.1 million carats, 
maintaining the  
record output  
achieved in 2006”
 38 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Business unit overview continued
Business overview
Anglo Base Metals has interests in 14 
operations in six countries, producing copper, 
nickel, zinc, niobium, phosphate fertilisers, 
titanium dioxide and zircon, together with 
associated by-products including lead, 
molybdenum and silver.
In Chile, its six copper operations comprise 
the wholly owned Los Bronces, El Soldado, 
Mantos Blancos and Mantoverde mines, the 
Chagres smelter and a 44% interest in the 
Collahuasi mine. The mines also produce 
associated by-products such as molybdenum 
and silver. 
Other South American operations are  
the Loma de Níquel nickel mine in Venezuela, 
and the Codemin nickel and Catalão niobium 
mines in Brazil. Anglo Base Metals also has  
a controlling interest in Copebrás, a leading 
Brazilian producer of phosphate fertilisers and 
phosphoric acid. Phosphate fertilisers are used 
to supplement natural soil nutrients to achieve 
high agricultural yields.
In southern Africa, Black Mountain and 
Skorpion mines produce zinc and associated  
by-products such as lead, copper and silver. 
Anglo Base Metals’ sole European operation  
is the Lisheen zinc and lead mine in Ireland. 
In January 2007, black economic 
empowerment company Exxaro Resources 
agreed to acquire Anglo Base Metals’ Namakwa 
mineral sands operation in South Africa, which 
produces titanium dioxide, zircon and rutile, 
together with associated by-products, along 
with 26% each of Black Mountain and Gamsberg, 
a large, moderate-grade zinc undeveloped 
deposit located in the Northern Cape province 
of South Africa. Black Mountain and Gamsberg 
will remain subsidiaries of, and continue to be 
managed and operated by, Anglo Base Metals.
Industry overview
The majority of copper produced is used by the 
wire and cable markets and takes advantage  
of the metal’s electrical conductivity, corrosion 
resistance and thermal conductivity. Applications 
that make use of copper’s electrical conductivity, 
such as wires (including building wire), cables 
and electrical connectors, account for around 
60% of total demand, while about 20% comes 
principally from the construction industry, which 
uses copper to produce plumbing pipe and roof 
sheeting, owing to the metal’s corrosion resistant 
qualities. Copper’s thermal conductivity also makes 
it suitable for use in heat transfer applications 
such as air conditioning and refrigeration, which 
make up some 10% of total demand. Other 
applications include structural and aesthetic uses.
Around 65% of all refined nickel goes into 
stainless steel. Other uses include high 
corrosion-resistant alloys for use in chemical 
plants, superalloys that can withstand extreme 
temperatures and are predominantly used  
in aviation, high-tech electronic uses and as  
a substitute for chromium plating.
Zinc is used predominantly in galvanising 
and alloys. Steel coated with zinc (galvanised 
steel) exhibits high levels of corrosion 
resistance. This application is responsible for 
around 50% of total demand. Zinc based alloys 
in die casting, ranging from automotive 
components to toys and models, account for 
around 10-12% of demand, with copper-based 
zinc alloys (brass) accounting for 15-17%. Zinc 
semis are used as roofing products and in dry 
cell batteries (8-10%). Chemical and other 
applications make up the remainder of refined 
demand (approximately 13-15%), where zinc 
is used in a diverse range of products and 
applications, including tyres, paints, 
pharmaceuticals and chemical processing.
With the exception of nickel, base metals 
industry ownership is presently relatively 
fragmented. The global market shares of the 
four largest copper, nickel and zinc metal 
producers are approximately 25%, 52% and 
23% respectively (but subject to ongoing 
consolidation in the base metals industry). 
Producers are price takers and there are 
relatively few opportunities for product 
differentiation.
The industry is capital intensive and is likely 
to become more so as high grade surface 
deposits are exhausted and deeper and/or lower 
grade deposits, requiring greater economies  
of scale in order to be commercially viable,  
are developed. Real prices of copper, nickel and 
zinc have declined over the long term, although 
there have been material and sustained 
deviations from this trend, most notably over 
the past five years. The decline in real prices 
reflects the long term reduction in costs as a 
result of improvements in technology and lower 
input costs. Average margins have, therefore, 
tended to be maintained.
For the past five years, the ongoing 
industrialisation and urbanisation of China has 
driven demand for a range of commodities. 
This, together with interest from speculative 
and investor funds, has resulted in a base metal 
price up-cycle which has been unprecedented 
both in its extent and its longevity. China now 
comprises an estimated 27%, 24% and 31%  
of global demand for copper, nickel and zinc 
respectively, the markets for which have all 
benefited materially.
Base Metals
Operating profit
2006
$3,897 m
2007
$4,338 m
EBITDA
2006
$4,255 m
2007
$4,683 m
•  Increased production volumes for 
copper in 2007 
•  Further upside potential in copper 
through Quellaveco and Michiquillay 
in Peru and Pebble in Alaska
•  Barro Alto to boost attributable  
nickel output by an average of  
36,000 tpa from 2011 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 39
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Strategy and growth
Anglo Base Metals’ strategy is to find or acquire, 
develop and operate long life, low cost mines  
in a socially and environmentally responsible 
manner, with a strong focus on efficient 
resource allocation, continuous improvement 
and capital and operating excellence.
The business is constantly developing and 
evaluating growth options from a combination 
of sources, including greenfield and brownfield 
projects, acquisitions, exploration and 
technology development. 
In addition to the growth potential arising 
from approved expansions at Los Bronces, 
Collahuasi and Barro Alto, and studies into 
further growth potential in particular at Collahuasi 
and Quellaveco (these projects are discussed 
further in the projects section on page 42), 
Anglo American, through its Base Metals 
division, has invested in a number of major  
new copper projects.
In April 2007, Anglo American tendered 
$403 million and won the Michiquillay 
privatisation auction in Peru. The consideration 
for this world class resource, with a production 
potential of up to 300,000 tpa, will be payable 
over five years. However, there is a right to 
exit the project, at any time after the first year, 
by paying 30% of the difference between monies 
expended and the $403 million. During the first 
year there is a minimum work commitment of 
$1 million with no exit payment. The Peru based 
team has been mobilised and the primary focus 
of efforts in the first 12 months will be the 
development of a productive relationship with 
the local communities.
In July 2007, Anglo American became  
a 50% partner with the Northern Dynasty 
Partnership (a wholly owned affiliate of 
Northern Dynasty Minerals Limited) in the 
Pebble Limited Partnership for a staged cash 
investment of $1.425 billion. The partnership 
owns the Pebble Project, the key assets of 
which are the open pit style Pebble West 
copper-gold-molybdenum deposit and the 
adjacent, deeper and higher grade Pebble East 
deposit. The objective is to complete a pre-
feasibility study in 2008, a feasibility study 
around 2011 and to have a world class mine 
in operation by 2015. A key priority is to build 
supportive relationships with local communities, 
consistent with Anglo American’s policy of 
developing and operating projects to the highest 
social and environmental standards and to 
promote development that is truly sustainable.
 Above: Washing down copper cathodes in 
the solvent-extraction/electro-winning plant 
at Mantos Blancos in Chile
see also
p
27
Group financial performance
p
10
Our strategy in action 40 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Business unit overview continued
In addition to reserve life extensions, significant 
new ore deposits have been discovered at 
Paloma Sulfatos and San Enrique Monolito (both 
near Los Bronces), while, at Collahuasi, Rosario 
Oeste has been further extended. 
In 2007, Anglo Base Metals spent  
$77 million on exploration and has increased  
its exploration around its Chilean copper mines, 
adding significant resources at Los Bronces and 
making two major discoveries in the immediate 
vicinity of Los Bronces. Collahuasi continues  
to drill out its very exciting Rosario Oeste 
discovery. In Brazil, drilling is ongoing at the 
Jacaré nickel discovery. Work continues in the 
Philippines to complete a pre-feasibility study  
at Boyongan. At Gamsberg East in South Africa, 
orebody expansions are being drilled. Copper 
exploration is being undertaken in Brazil, Chile, 
Indonesia, Mexico, Peru and the US. Nickel 
sulphide mineralisation is being sought in  
Arctic Canada, Russia and Scandinavia (through 
alliances) and zinc programmes continue in 
Australia, South Africa and Namibia.
Financial overview
Operating profit at Anglo Base Metals reached 
an all time high of $4,338 million, surpassing 
the previous year’s record of $3,897 million. 
This resulted from increased copper, zinc and 
phosphate fertiliser production, combined with 
higher nickel, lead, niobium and fertiliser prices, 
partially offset by adverse exchange rate 
movements and further rises in the costs  
of energy, labour and most key consumables. 
Although the London Metal Exchange copper 
price was higher than in 2006, a significant 
 In 2007, Copebrás was reclassified from Industrial Minerals to Base Metals to align with internal management reporting. Only the 2006 
comparative has been restated to reflect this.
$ million  
(unless otherwise stated) 2007 2006
Operating profit 4,338 3,897
Copper 2,983 3,019
Nickel, niobium, 
mineral sands and 
phosphates 786 426
Zinc 654 516
Other (85) (64)
EBITDA 4,683 4,255
Net operating assets 4,989 4,599
Capital expenditure 610 315
Share of Group 
operating profit 45% 44%
Share of Group net 
operating assets 19% 22%
In 2007, Copebrás was reclassified from Industrial Minerals to 
Base Metals to align with internal management reporting. As 
such, the comparative data has been reclassified.
mark to market and final liquidation adjustment 
as at 31 December 2007 resulted in realised 
copper prices being little changed from 2006. 
Markets
Average prices (c/lb) 2007 2006
Copper 323 305
Nickel 1,686 1,095
Zinc 147 148
Lead 118 58
During 2007, the copper market was broadly  
in balance, with prices recovering strongly in the 
first half as the Chinese restocked, but then 
moved lower in the fourth quarter. Nickel had  
a buoyant first six months, with very tight 
terminal market stocks, but weakened materially 
in the second half as ongoing stainless steel 
production cutbacks, greater scrap availability, 
substitution and increases in nickel pig-iron 
production all contributed to a material build up 
of stock across the year. Zinc prices weakened, 
particularly in the second half, owing to market 
concerns about the impact of increasing 2008 
supply on terminal market stocks. 
Operating performance
Copper division 2007 2006
Operating profit 
($ million) 2,983 3,019
Attributable 
production  
(tonnes) 655,000 643,800 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 41
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
All of the division’s mines, with the exception  
of Mantos Blancos, increased production.  
In addition, Mantos Blancos, Mantoverde  
and Collahuasi all successfully renegotiated 
collective bargaining agreements without any 
disruption to the operations.
Los Bronces increased output by 2%, 
principally due to a 14% increase in cathode 
production. Despite the attributable loss of 
9,200 tonnes of production owing to the 
shutdown of the SAG mill number 3 (for 
replacement of its stator motor) and planned 
lower oxide and sulphide grades, Collahuasi 
increased its attributable production by 3%.  
El Soldado lifted production by 6%. Output 
from Mantoverde was marginally up, while 
Mantos Blancos was affected by planned and 
unplanned maintenance shutdowns as well as 
an earthquake and was unable to offset the 
impact of lower grades with higher throughputs, 
leading to a marginal production decline. 
Molybdenum production rose 8% to 
4,400 tonnes, primarily as a result of increases  
at Collahuasi. Chagres’ output fell by 5% 
mainly due to the lower average grade of 
concentrate treated. Adverse exchange rate 
movements and further rises in the costs of 
energy, labour and most key consumables 
impacted all Chilean operations.
Nickel, niobium, mineral sands  
and phosphates
2007 2006
Operating profit ($ million) 786 426
Attributable nickel 
production (tonnes) 25,600 26,400
At Codemin, output moved up marginally,  
but sales were 5% lower following a slowdown 
in stainless steel producer offtake. At Catalão, 
niobium production was flat, with higher mill 
throughput being offset by lower metallurgical 
recoveries arising from a change in ore 
characterisation. Copebrás had a spectacular 
year, with much improved prices and fertiliser 
sales climbing by 14% to exceed 1 million tonnes 
for the first time. All of the Brazilian operations 
saw costs increase as a consequence of adverse 
currency movements and cost increases in fuel 
oil, aluminium powder and sulphur. 
Loma de Níquel’s production declined by 
5% due to heavy rains and strike action, while 
tonnage processed was affected by a planned 
maintenance stoppage and a series of refractory 
and equipment failures. These also had a 
bearing on operating costs which were impacted 
further by numerous cost and indirect tax 
increases within a fixed exchange rate and 
increasingly difficult operating environment. 
Sales fell from 16,900 tonnes to 14,500 tonnes 
arising out of a combination of administrative 
delays by the Venezuelan authorities and 
weakening stainless steel customer demand.
The Venezuelan Ministry of Basic Industries 
and Mining (MIBAM) commenced administrative 
proceedings in January 2007 in relation to the 
16 nickel exploration and exploitation 
concessions held by the Company’s subsidiary, 
Minera Loma de Níquel (MLdN), alleging that 
MLdN had failed to fulfil certain conditions of its 
concessions. MLdN submitted a timely response 
to MIBAM’s administrative writ in February 
2007. By means of a series of resolutions 
published in two Official Gazettes made 
available in January 2008, MIBAM declared the 
termination of 13 of MLdN’s nickel concessions. 
The 13 concessions do not include the 
concessions where the current mining operations 
and the metallurgical facilities are located. 
MLdN is in the process of filing administrative 
appeals seeking the annulment of all of these 
resolutions and requesting that their effects be 
suspended pending a final decision by MIBAM. 
As at 31 December 2007, Anglo American’s 
interest in the book value of MLdN, including 
its mineral rights, was $616 million (as 
included in the Group’s balance sheet). In the 
12 months to December 2007, MLdN’s 
production and contribution to Group operating 
profit were, respectively, 15,700 tonnes of 
nickel in ferronickel and $370 million. The 
average price of nickel in 2007 was 1,686 c/lb. 
As of 19 February 2008, the price of nickel was 
1,259 c/lb.
Anglo American is proud of its record  
in Venezuela, where it has invested substantial 
amounts in exploration and subsequently  
the construction of the country’s only primary 
nickel producer. It is a major contributor to, and 
employer in, the Venezuelan economy as well 
as a significant taxpayer. The operation 
continues, as it has always done, to work 
constructively with all stakeholders – 
employees, local communities and government 
– and to the highest sustainable development, 
social and environmental standards. 
Anglo American and MLdN are seeking 
further clarification from MIBAM, with which 
they have maintained a constructive working 
relationship in the past. Anglo American and 
MLdN believe that there is a valid legal basis  
to reverse the notices of termination and will 
pursue all appropriate legal and other remedies 
and actions to protect their respective interests 
both under Venezuelan and international law. 
As a result, the Group continues to consolidate 
MLdN and no impairment has been recorded  
for the year ended 31 December 2007.
 42 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Zinc division 2007 2006
Operating profit 
($ million) 654 516
Attributable zinc 
production (tonnes) 343,100 334,700
Attributable lead 
production (tonnes) 62,100 71,400
Skorpion operated at design capacity throughout 
the year, producing a record 150,100 tonnes. 
Mine operating unit costs fell, reflecting tight 
cost control and higher volumes, partially offset 
by increases in royalties and the costs of key 
consumables. At Lisheen, zinc production 
decreased by 4% while lead output was down 
13%. Higher than anticipated water inflows and 
poor ground conditions limited mining flexibility, 
resulting in lower tonnages, grades and 
metallurgical recoveries. At Black Mountain, 
mining difficulties related to limited stope 
availability were compounded by a slower than 
anticipated ramp up of the infrastructure and 
ore handling systems of the new Deeps shaft, 
as well as seven weeks of industrial action. 
Overall, declining mill throughput and lower 
grades were only partly offset by material 
improvements in metallurgical recoveries and 
28,300 tonnes of zinc and 41,900 tonnes of 
lead were produced. 
The previously announced sale of 
Namakwa Sands (R2.0 billion subject to 
contractual adjustments), and 26% of each  
of Black Mountain and Gamsberg (combined  
R180 million subject to contractual adjustments), 
to Exxaro Resources has yet to be completed, 
awaiting the approval of the conversion of old 
order to new order mining rights. The sale  
is expected to be completed in 2008.
Projects
Anglo Base Metals has a strong project pipeline 
which provides significant scope for organic 
growth. The pipeline includes the Barro Alto nickel 
project, which is on track for first production in 
2010 and is due to increase existing nickel 
production by an average 36,000 tpa from 
2011. To date, in excess of $900 million of the 
$1.5 billion capital expenditure required has 
been committed to this project and the strength 
of the Brazilian currency is putting ongoing 
material upward pressure on the domestic 
component of capital expenditure.
The $1.7 billion Los Bronces expansion 
project, which aims to increase sulphide mill 
throughput from 61,000 tonnes per day (tpd) 
to 148,000 tpd and increase copper production 
by an average of 170,000 tpa to an initial 
production level exceeding 400,000 tpa, has 
been approved. Construction is under way, 
with first production scheduled for 2011.
A debottlenecking project at Collahuasi, 
which will increase sulphide mill throughput 
from 130,000 tpd to 140,000 tpd, has been 
approved at a total cost of $64 million, with 
ramp up due to commence in the second half  
of 2008. The first phase of a potential two 
phase expansion at Collahuasi, which will 
increase throughput to 170,000 tpd, plus the 
addition of a separate 30,000 tpd sulphide 
leach circuit (equivalent to around 650,000 tpa 
of copper on a 100% basis), will be evaluated 
during 2008. Recent exploration success at 
Rosario Oeste suggests that there is potential 
to further increase production to around 
1 million tpa by 2014.
The revised feasibility study on the 
Quellaveco project in Peru, which contemplates 
an operation producing approximately 
200,000 tpa of copper in concentrate at 
a capital cost of approximately $1.7 billion, 
will be completed in 2008.
In addition, this organic growth will be 
boosted by the two major acquisitions made  
in 2007 – Pebble and Michiquillay.
Chagres, Mantoverde, Mantos Blancos,  
El Soldado, Catalão, Gamsberg, Copebrás, 
Boyongan and Kalayaan have early stage 
studies under way examining options for 
projects that will either increase production 
and/or extend mine lives.
Outlook
Production of copper, zinc, lead, niobium and 
fertilisers are all forecast to increase in 2008, 
while there is a risk that the nickel production 
profile will be affected by uncertainties in 
Venezuela. With the base metals industry 
operating at capacity and, on the assumption 
that the currencies of the countries where the 
division produces continue to remain firm in 
relation to the dollar, cost pressures will remain, 
with sulphur and sulphuric acid prices forecast 
to rise dramatically. In Chile, the energy supply 
situation in the northern grid is very tight and 
the risk of periodic requests for load shedding 
cannot be ruled out.
It seems likely that certain base metal 
markets will move into surplus in 2008,  
with some modest build up of stock forecast 
(except in the case of zinc, which is likely to  
see a material market surplus), the extent of 
which will be dependent on the magnitude of 
any supply side disruptions. Notwithstanding 
these shorter term uncertainties, medium and 
longer term fundamentals remain positive.
“ Organic growth will  
be boosted by the two 
major acquisitions made  
in 2007 – Pebble and 
Michiquillay”
Business unit overview continued Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 43
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Ferrous Metals
Operating profit
2006
$1,360 m
2007
$1,432 m
EBITDA
2006
$1,560 m
2007
$1,561 m
•  Highest ever iron ore production  
in 2007 at 32.4 Mtpa 
•  MMX Minas-Rio and Kumba 
expansions to lift Group iron ore 
production to 150 Mtpa by 2017
•  Iron ore price to remain firm  
through to 2009
 
Business overview
Anglo Ferrous Metals’ primary business is iron 
ore. It holds a 63.4% shareholding in Kumba 
Iron Ore in South Africa and a 49% interest, 
acquired in mid-2007, in the MMX Minas-Rio 
project in Brazil. Other interests principally 
comprise manganese ore and alloy operations 
and carbon steel products.
Kumba was created as a pure-play iron  
ore company, listed on the Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange (JSE) following its unbundling from 
Kumba Resources in November 2006. The 
transaction also resulted in the formation of 
Exxaro, South Africa’s largest black economic 
empowerment (BEE) mining group.
In 2007, Kumba exported more than 70% 
of its 32.4 million tonnes of iron ore production, 
mostly to customers in Europe and Asia. The 
company currently operates two mines in South 
Africa – Sishen in the Northern Cape, which 
achieved a record output in 2007 of 29.7 million 
tonnes per annum (Mtpa), and Thabazimbi,  
in Limpopo, which produced 2.7 Mtpa.
Scaw Metals is a global group that 
manufactures a diverse range of steel products. 
With principal operations in southern Africa, 
Chile, Peru, Canada and Mexico, it produces 
rolled steel products, steel and iron castings, 
cast alloy iron and forged steel grinding media 
and steel chain, wire rope and strand products. 
Scaw’s products serve the construction, 
railway, power generation, mining, cement, 
marine and offshore oil industries worldwide. 
In March 2007, Scaw’s South African operation 
completed a landmark empowerment 
transaction by including an employee trust and 
broad-based BEE consortium as owners in the 
company. Scaw is the first steel producer in 
South Africa to achieve a BEE rating.
Ferrous Metals also holds a 40% 
shareholding, with BHP Billiton having 60% and 
management control, in Samancor Manganese, 
the world’s largest integrated producer, by 
sales, of manganese ore and alloys. Samancor 
has plants in South Africa and Australia, the 
manganese operations in the latter consisting  
of Groote Eylandt Mining Company (GEMCO) 
and Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company 
(TEMCO).
Ferrous Metals has a 37% voting interest  
in JSE-listed Tongaat-Hulett, an agri-processing 
business which includes integrated components 
of land management, agriculture and property 
development. Through its sugar and starch 
operations in southern Africa, Tongaat-Hulett 
produces a range of refined carbohydrate products 
from sugar cane and maize. The company 
balances the operational requirement for cane 
supplies to its sugar operations with the transition 
 see also
p
27
Group financial performance
p
10
Our strategy in action 44 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Business unit overview continued
to property development. The unbundling of 
Hulamin from Tongaat-Hulett, and its separate 
JSE listing, was completed in June 2007 together 
with the simultaneous injection of broad-based 
BEE ownership into both companies.
Hulamin, in which Ferrous Metals has a 38% 
voting interest, is Africa’s largest producer  
of aluminium rolled, extruded and other semi-
fabricated and finished products, with its main 
operations situated in Pietermaritzburg, South 
Africa. As an independent niche producer of 
technically demanding and higher value products, 
Hulamin supplies customers spread among all the 
major aluminium consuming regions of the world. 
Industry overview
Steel is the most widely used of all metals, with 
world crude steel production increasing by 7.5% 
in 2007 to reach a total of 1.34 billion tonnes. 
The seaborne iron ore market, which is a 
critical component of the global steel industry, 
has grown from 454 Mtpa in 2000 to 782 Mtpa 
at the end of 2007. This increase has arisen 
mainly from Chinese demand growth. China is 
expected to continue being the main driver of 
global steel production growth and is forecast 
to increase production from 489 Mtpa in 2007 
to 750 Mtpa by 2012. This level of production 
will require iron ore imports in excess of 
730 Mtpa. Growth in steel production in the 
short to medium term will occur in former 
Soviet Union countries, supported by steady 
growth rates in the rest of Asia and Europe. 
Further support for iron ore demand will come 
from steel prices which have stabilised at 
historically high levels.
The global market for iron ore is expected  
to remain tight in the short to medium term, 
with major suppliers experiencing difficulties  
in bringing on new production in time to meet 
increasing demand, owing, inter alia, to the 
global shortage in engineering and construction 
resources. Logistical constraints associated 
with rail and port capacity and shortages in dry 
bulk vessel capacity at times, are expected to 
continue having an impact on the supply side  
of the seaborne iron ore market. As a result, 
spot prices are expected to remain near their 
historical highs in the short to medium term.
Manganese ore is smelted to produce 
manganese ferro-alloys (such as ferromanganese 
and silicomanganese). World consumption  
of manganese ore (based on International 
Manganese Institute statistics) increased by 7% 
in 2007, having declined by 0.5% the previous 
year. As 96% of manganese ore is consumed  
in ferro-alloy production, the performance of 
the manganese alloy industry is the key 
determinant of ore demand. Manganese alloy 
prices in the coming year should remain 
underpinned by higher ore prices and 
expectations of reducing exports from China, 
as government there continues its efforts to 
curtail alloy production through such measures 
as increased export tariffs.
Strategy and growth
The core strategy of the business is to grow 
Anglo American’s position in iron ore and make it 
the cornerstone of the Ferrous Metals portfolio.
As part of that process, in mid-2007 Anglo 
American acquired a 49% interest in the MMX 
Minas-Rio iron ore project in Brazil for an 
effective price of $1.15 billion plus a potential 
payment of up to $600 million if certain criteria 
are met. Planned annual capacity will be 
26.5 Mtpa of iron ore pellet feed, for start-up 
during 2010 at an anticipated cost of 
$3.46 billion. On 17 January 2008, 
Anglo American announced that it had entered 
into a period of exclusive discussions with the 
controlling shareholder of MMX Mineração e 
Metálicos S.A. (MMX) to acquire a 63.6% 
shareholding in a new company ‘Newco’ which 
will be demerged from MMX and will own MMX’s 
current 51% interest in the Minas-Rio iron ore 
project and 70% interest in the Amapá iron ore 
mine. After the acquisition of the 63.6% stake, 
Anglo American will offer to purchase the 
Newco shares held by the minority shareholders 
of Newco at the same price per share, for a total 
of approximately $5.5 billion on a 100% basis 
or approximately $361.12 per Newco share 
(assuming one Newco share for each current 
MMX share), as well as royalty payments to 
MMX beginning in 2025 for the Minas-Rio 
project and 2023 for the Amapá mine.
Kumba, through the Sishen Expansion 
Project, will expand its iron ore production  
to 44 Mtpa by 2009, and further brownfield  
and greenfield opportunities will extend this  
to more than 70 Mtpa.
The process of selling down Anglo 
American’s stake in Exxaro from 23% to 10% 
was completed in September, realising a profit 
of $234 million in 2007. Anglo American will 
continue to hold a 10% shareholding until 2016.
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 45
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Financial overview
Ferrous Metals’ operating profit of $1,432 million 
was up by 5% on 2006 and operating profit 
from core businesses increased by 59%. The 
iron ore and manganese markets experienced 
favourable market conditions and stronger prices.
Markets
Demand for iron ore and manganese ore 
continues to be robust, driven by healthy 
demand by steel manufacturers in China and 
other markets. The American, European and 
Asian manganese alloy markets all remain 
generally strong, driven by continuing buoyant 
demand for manganese alloys and ongoing 
concerns around security of supply.
Operating performance
The unbundled Kumba Iron Ore achieved its 
highest ever operating profit of $834 million, 
48% up on 2006, on the back of strong iron  
ore prices. Global demand for iron ore in 2007 
rose by 5.7% to 1.89 billion tonnes, fuelled  
by increasing demand for seaborne iron ore in 
China and other developing markets. The company 
produced 32.4 million tonnes of iron ore, an 
increase of 4% on 2006 production volumes. 
Operating costs, however, remained under 
pressure owing to above inflation cost increases, 
particularly in energy, labour, contractors and 
raw materials. 
Scaw delivered a record operating profit  
of $172 million, with strong demand for most  
of its products. Margins remained under 
pressure owing to significant price increases  
in key raw materials and import competition  
for certain South African product lines. 
Anglo American’s attributable share of 
Samancor’s operating profit increased more 
than four-fold to $225 million as strong global 
demand for both manganese ore and alloys, 
together with constrained global manganese 
ore production, resulted in surging ore prices 
during the second half of the year. Higher ore 
and alloy sales volumes also contributed to the 
strong performance.
The Tongaat-Hulett and Hulamin 
contribution to operating profit declined by  
26% to $114 million following the unbundling 
of Hulamin from Tongaat-Hulett and related 
empowerment transactions in June 2007.  
These businesses, which were consolidated  
for the first six months of 2007, were equity 
accounted in the second half of the year.
The sale of the remaining 29% stake in 
Highveld to Evraz was completed in April 2007.
Right: Drill assistant Allowize Strauss 
(right) and learner Maureen Tshetlho  
at Kumba Iron Ore’s Sishen open pit in  
South Africa
$ million  
(unless otherwise stated) 2007 2006
Operating profit 1,432 1,360
Kumba Iron Ore 834 565
Scaw Metals 172 160
Samancor Group 225 52
Other (21) (14)
Core businesses 1,210 763
Highveld Steel 108 230
Tongaat-Hulett/Hulamin 114 154
Kumba Resources – 213
Other businesses 222 597
EBITDA 1,561 1,560
Net operating assets 3,987 2,796
Capital expenditure (including 
biological assets) 471 582
Share of Group operating 
profit 15% 15%
Share of Group net operating 
assets 15% 13% 46 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Business unit overview continued
Projects
In October 2007, the $754 million, 13 Mtpa 
Sishen Expansion Project commenced 
commercial production, with ramp up to  
full design capacity expected to be achieved  
in 2009.
The Sishen South Project, which involves 
the development of a new opencast operation 
some 70 kilometres south of Sishen mine,  
is currently being considered for development. 
A decision to proceed with this 9 Mtpa new 
mine is imminent, and is dependent on finalising 
logistical arrangements and the granting of 
mining rights. A pre-feasibility study on a further 
expansion at the Sishen mine of 10 Mtpa by 
beneficiating lower grade resources is due to  
be completed during 2008.
The $183 million GEMCO expansion project 
in Australia’s Northern Territory is on target  
to increase the company’s annual manganese 
ore production capacity from 3.0 dry metric 
tonne units (dmtu) to 4.0 dmtu by the first half 
of 2009.
Outlook 
Global demand for steel is expected to remain 
strong through 2008, underpinning demand for 
iron ore and manganese products. 2008 also 
promises to be a year of healthy steel 
production growth, with year on year global 
output forecast to rise by 6.8%. With iron ore 
producers struggling to bring on new capacity, 
China and other major steel producing regions 
remain undersupplied. As a result, the annual 
iron ore price increase with effect from 1 April 
2008 is expected to be significant. 
Demand for manganese ore and alloy  
is forecast to remain firm which, together with 
supply constraints in manganese ore, should 
result in the record ore prices seen in the latter 
part of 2007 continuing well into 2008. 
Manganese alloy prices will be supported  
by higher iron ore and other production costs. 
Scaw’s volumes in the South African market  
are expected to grow, driven by infrastructural 
expansion and construction and mining  
industry activity. 
Demand for Scaw’s products is forecast  
to remain strong, driven by mining demand and 
infrastructure growth. Increasing input costs 
will, however, place further pressure on margins.
Coal
Operating profit
2006
$862 m
2007
$614 m
EBITDA
2006
$1,082 m
2007
$882 m
•  Anglo Coal is one of the world’s biggest 
coal producers and exporters
•  Current expansion programme to raise 
consolidated coal production to 
115 Mtpa by 2010
•  Coal is likely to remain an essential 
part of the energy mix well into  
the future
Business overview
Anglo Coal is the world’s sixth largest private 
sector coal producer and exporter, with operations 
in South Africa, Australia, South America  
and Canada. 
In South Africa, Anglo Coal owns and 
operates eight mines and has a 50% interest  
in Mafube mine. Four mines are in the Witbank 
coalfield which supplies some 20 million tonnes 
per annum (Mtpa) of thermal coals to the 
export and local markets and a small volume  
of metallurgical coal to the export market. Coal 
is exported through Richards Bay Coal Terminal, 
in which Anglo Coal has a 27% interest. In 
addition the New Vaal, New Denmark and Kriel 
mines supply some 35 Mtpa of thermal coal  
to Eskom, the South African state-owned 
electric power utility. Anglo Coal’s Isibonelo 
mine produces some 5 Mtpa for Sasol Synthetic 
Fuels under a 21 year supply contract.
Anglo Coal is the fourth largest producer  
of coal in Australia, with one wholly owned mine 
and a controlling interest in another four, as well 
as significant undeveloped coal reserves. Its mines 
are located in Queensland and New South Wales 
and produce some 34 Mtpa (25 Mtpa 
attributable). It also owns an effective 23% 
interest in the Jellinbah mine in Queensland. 
In South America, Anglo Coal has a 33% 
shareholding in Cerrejón Coal, which has the 
capacity to produce at a rate of more than  
28 Mtpa, with approved expansion plans to 
increase production to 32 Mtpa. Cerrejón 
produces thermal coal for export to Europe  
and the Americas. In addition, Anglo Coal has  
a 25% interest in Carbones del Guasare (CDG) 
which owns and operates the Paso Diablo mine 
in northern Venezuela. CDG produces around  
6 Mtpa of thermal and metallurgical coal for 
pulverised coal injection (PCI).
Anglo Coal has a 66% interest in Peace 
River Coal, which has one operating 
metallurgical coal mine and significant coal 
resources in western Canada. Peace River Coal 
is expected to produce approximately 1.5 Mtpa 
in 2008. Anglo Coal also has a 60% interest  
in the Xiwan coal mine lease area in China, 
where the feasibility of developing the mine  
is under evaluation in conjunction with Anglo 
Coal’s joint venture partners, the Shaanxi Coal 
Geological Bureau.
Anglo Coal signed shareholder agreements 
with Inyosi, a broad-based black economic 
empowerment (BEE) company, in November 
2007, to create an empowered coal company 
housing key current and future domestic and 
export-focused coal operations in South Africa. 
In terms of the agreements, Inyosi will acquire, 
subject to certain conditions precedent, 27% of  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 47
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Anglo Inyosi Coal, creating a company valued at 
R7 billion and incorporating several key Anglo 
Coal assets; namely Kriel Colliery, which is an 
existing mine, and the Elders, Zondagsfontein, 
New Largo and Heidelberg projects.
Industry overview
Coal is the most abundant source of fossil fuel 
energy in the world, considerably exceeding 
known reserves of oil and gas. The bulk of coal 
produced worldwide is thermal coal used for 
power generation. Thermal coal is also supplied 
as a fuel to other industries such as the cement 
sector. Metallurgical coal is a key raw material 
for 70% of the world’s steel industry.
Approximately 5 billion tonnes of hard coal 
is produced globally each year, with the majority 
used in the country of production. A small volume 
is traded across land borders such as those 
between the US and Canada or between the 
former Soviet Union countries. The international 
seaborne coal market comprises some  
0.8 billion tonnes, of which some 0.6 billion 
tonnes is thermal coal and 0.2 billion tonnes  
is metallurgical coal.
Produced in a relatively limited number  
of countries, metallurgical coal is primarily used  
in the steelmaking industry and includes hard 
coking coal, semi-soft coking coal and PCI coal. 
The chemical composition of the coal is 
fundamental to the steel producers’ raw 
material mix and product quality. The market for 
this coal has a majority of larger volume, longer 
term, annually priced contracts, but with some 
steel companies increasingly using short term 
contracts to meet their requirements.
Demand in this sector is fundamentally 
driven by economic, industrial and steel demand 
growth, but the Med-Atlantic and Indo-Pacific 
markets have their own particular supply and 
demand profiles. Price negotiations between 
Australian suppliers and Japanese steel producers 
generally, but not always, set the trend that 
influences settlements throughout the market. 
Anglo Coal is a significant supplier to virtually 
all the major steel producing groups in the world.
The thermal coal market is supplied by  
a larger number of countries and producers than 
the metallurgical coal market, spread across  
the world. Production companies vary in size 
and operate in a highly competitive market.
Demand for thermal coal is driven by 
demand for electricity and is also affected by 
the availability and price of competing fuels 
such as oil and gas, as well as nuclear power. 
Driven by varying degrees of deregulation  
in electricity markets, customers focus 
increasingly on securing the lowest cost fuel 
supply at any particular point in time. This has 
resulted in a move away from longer term 
contracts towards a mix of short term contracts, 
spot pricing, the development of various price 
indices, hedging and derivative instruments. 
However, the extent to which the full range  
of pricing instruments is used, varies across  
the world.
Anglo Coal exports thermal coal from  
South Africa, South America and Australia  
to customers throughout the Med-Atlantic  
and Indo-Pacific markets. The balance of  
Anglo Coal’s production is sold domestically  
in Australia and South Africa. In South Africa  
a large portion of domestic sales are made  
to the domestic power utility, Eskom, on long 
term (i.e. life of mine) cost-plus contracts.  
Sales also take place to domestic industrial 
sector consumers. In Australia, domestic sales 
are predominantly to power utilities under long 
and shorter term contractual arrangements.
Coal produced in Colombia and Venezuela  
is marketed by the respective companies.
“ Coal is the most abundant 
source of fossil fuel 
energy in the world, 
considerably exceeding 
known reserves of oil  
and gas”
see also
p
27
Group financial performance
p
10
Our strategy in action
 48 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Business unit overview continued
Strategy and growth
Anglo Coal’s strategy is focused on globalisation 
to secure a balanced and profitable mix of 
metallurgical and thermal coal assets, supplying 
international markets in the Med-Atlantic and 
Indo-Pacific basins and, where appropriate, 
selected domestic customers in the country in 
which the production takes place. This will be 
achieved by expanding existing assets, acquiring 
new assets and by forming strategic alliances 
that facilitate, protect and augment this strategy. 
The current and forecast growth rates in  
the South African economy present numerous 
opportunities for the coal industry, especially  
in connection with the supply and demand of 
electricity. Anglo Coal is evaluating a number of 
opportunities in order to continue to participate 
in the domestic electricity supply sector and  
is currently reviewing these opportunities with 
potential historically disadvantaged South 
African partners and Eskom.
In line with its growth strategy, Anglo Coal 
has recently agreed to acquire 70% of the 
Foxleigh coal mine joint venture in Queensland, 
Australia, for $620 million. This adds to Anglo 
Coal’s existing coal mining operations in the 
Bowen Basin, one of the world’s premier coal 
regions. Foxleigh currently produces 2.5 Mtpa 
of PCI coal for the steelmaking industry.  
The mine has production capacity of 3.3 Mtpa, 
which it is expected to reach following completion 
of rail and port expansion projects. The Foxleigh 
mine adjoins Anglo Coal’s Capcoal (German 
Creek) operations and the associated Lake 
Lindsay mine development, offering potential 
synergies. The mine and surrounding tenements 
will be the subject of ongoing exploration and 
feasibility studies.
The impact of climate change is an area of 
focus for the sector and Anglo Coal’s strategy is 
to participate where appropriate to help address 
the issue of carbon emissions and climate 
change as the demand for energy continues to 
grow. Its Clean Coal Energy Alliance with Shell, 
formed last year, is evaluating the Monash 
Energy project, incorporating carbon capture 
and storage, in the state of Victoria, Australia. 
Anglo Coal is also part of The FutureGen 
Industrial Alliance, which consists of major 
energy and mining companies working in 
partnership with the US Department of Energy 
(DOE) to design, construct, and operate the 
world’s first ‘near zero emissions’ coal-fuelled 
power generation plant. Although in January 
2008, the DOE announced an intention to 
establish an alternative programme, the Alliance 
intends to continue to work with the 
Administration, Congress and other stakeholders 
to advance the project. Anglo Coal is also a 
member of the World Coal Institute. Through 
this and several other policy influencing bodies 
Anglo Coal contributes to promoting the 
interests and addressing the concerns of the 
wider coal industry. 
While Anglo Coal continues to grow and 
expand its operations in its existing geographies, 
it is also looking at potential opportunities  
in new regions. It has spent $49 million on 
exploration and new business development 
activities, investigating resources for thermal 
and coking coal, coal bed methane and oil 
sands, mainly looking in southern Africa, China, 
Australia and Canada. It has conducted 
advanced resource evaluations of the Xiwan 
project in China and projects in South Africa, 
Canada and Australia.
Financial overview
Anglo Coal’s operating profit decreased by 29% 
to $614 million. This was mainly brought about 
by a disappointing performance from Australian 
operations, where port and rail infrastructure 
constraints across the industry, lower sales prices 
and an 11% appreciation of the local currency 
against the dollar resulted in significantly  
lower earnings. 
During the period under review, Anglo Coal 
Australia has recorded an impairment of  
$153 million against certain Australian assets to 
reflect the latest commercial and operational 
conditions relating to those assets.
Markets
An increase in global thermal coal demand, 
buoyed by the influential Indian and Chinese 
markets and coupled with periods of significant 
supply disruptions in key producing countries, 
resulted in a particularly strong market in the 
second half of 2007. In addition to the supply 
fundamentals, competing energy oil and gas 
prices further supported the renaissance of 
coal. Recently, thermal coal price indices have 
set new highs.
In Australia, 2007 opened with a 
strengthened market for thermal coal on the 
back of strong Asia Pacific demand, particularly 
from China, which experienced a reduction in 
export tonnage and a rise in domestic prices. 
Continued port congestion at Newcastle 
throughout the year, and storm and flood events 
kept supply tight and further strengthened the 
export thermal market. Prices steadily increased 
throughout the year and are likely to remain 
high into 2008. Export performance from South 
Africa and from Colombia was steady.
Metallurgical coal prices turned lower at the 
start of the year in the wake of the high 2006 
prices that were driven by increasing global 
$ million  
(unless otherwise stated) 2007 2006
Operating profit 614 862 
South Africa 414 380
Australia 9 279
South America 227 227
Projects and corporate (36) (24)
EBITDA 882 1,082
Net operating assets 3,984 2,870
Capital expenditure 1,052 782
Share of Group 
operating profit 6% 10%
Share of Group net 
operating assets 15% 13%
In 2007, Yang Quarry was reclassified from Industrial Minerals to 
Coal to align with internal management reporting. As such, the 
comparative data has been reclassified. Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 49
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
 steel demand. However, supply constraints 
from Australia’s congested Dalrymple Bay port, 
declining Russian exports, and China’s net 
importer status, resulted in a steady price 
increase from April, with prices remaining high 
at year end.
As most sales in respect of both thermal 
and metallurgical are concluded for delivery 
some months hence, the full value of the rising 
market will only be felt next year.
Operating performance
Operating profit from South African sourced coal 
was 9% higher at $414 million, mainly because 
of a 10% rise in export prices and despite a 
decrease of nearly 1% in export sales volumes. 
Production was maintained at around  
59 million tonnes (Mt), with a reduction of  
0.6 Mt for the trade mines being offset by  
a modest increase from Eskom and domestic 
production. Total sales, however, declined by 
just over 1% to 58.7 Mt, mainly because export 
sales volumes were below 2006 due to poor  
rail performance, adverse weather conditions  
at the Richards Bay Coal Terminal, together with 
some production issues. 
Capital expenditure was $150 million higher 
than in 2006, the Mafube Macro and New Vaal 
MacWest projects being the primary contributors 
of the significant increase in expansionary capital 
expenditure of $121 million. 
Operating profit from the Australian 
operations fell to $9 million. This was primarily 
due to lower realised prices, an unfavourable 
exchange rate and higher port demurrage charges. 
Port and rail infrastructure constraints limited the 
ability to then offset through volume increases. 
Delays in the port and rail infrastructure 
programme have affected the operations. 
Significantly, high value metallurgical coal 
capacity allocation was reduced by 2.7 Mt,  
on a 100% basis, and material additional costs 
were suffered owing to lengthening port queues. 
Mitigating actions have included building 
stockpiles, adjusting production profiles, securing 
coal sales via alternative routes, rescheduling 
high rate vessels and renegotiating demurrage 
rates. Thermal coal prices strengthened by 7% 
over 2006. However, the 2007 coking coal 
settlement was below the high levels of 2006.
Operational performance improvements 
were limited by infrastructure constraints for  
all export mines except Dawson. The Dawson 
expansion project will ramp up production  
to achieve design rates by the end of 2008.  
It incurred an operating loss during 2007 following 
transitional issues and a change in the mine plan. 
The Grasstree project at Capcoal became 
operational in 2007 and delivered an increase  
in volumes over 2006. The full benefits of  
this could not be realised owing to the port 
constraints and operating shifts were reduced 
here and at existing operations. The Lake 
Lindsay project to expand operations at Capcoal 
will be completed in late 2008. 
Operating profit from South America was  
in line with 2006 at $227 million. Coal sales  
at Cerrejón increased by 4% to 29.8 Mt as the 
expansion project to 32 Mtpa progressed, 
however operating costs also rose as a result  
of the appreciation of the Colombian peso and 
high fuel prices. In Venezuela, sales volumes  
at Carbones del Guasare were marginally ahead 
of 2006.
The 66% held Peace River Coal operation  
in Canada began producing high quality coking 
coal from the Trend Mine at the end of 2007. 
Projects
In South Africa, the $505 million Zondagsfontein 
project has been approved and is expected to 
deliver 6.6 Mtpa from 2010. The $292 million 
development of the Mafube Macro project is 
progressing well, with plant commissioning 
commencing in mid-December 2007. Mafube 
will supply coal to Eskom and to the export 
market and it is anticipated that the mine will 
increase thermal coal production by a total of 
5.4 Mtpa, the attributable share being 2.7 Mtpa.
In Australia, the expansion of the Dawson 
Complex, to increase production by 5.7 Mtpa 
(100%), is operational and ramping up to full 
capacity and is expected to achieve design rates 
by the end of 2008. At Capcoal the Lake 
Lindsay development is progressing with 
estimated completion during the second half  
of 2008. The additional production from both 
Dawson and Lake Lindsay will increase coal 
production at these mines by approximately  
9.7 Mtpa. In addition to the current developments, 
Anglo Coal is reviewing a number of studies  
for key future development prospects, including 
Moranbah South, Grosvenor, Dartbrook and 
Saddlers Creek. 
In Colombia, the approved expansion at 
Cerrejón to 32 Mtpa is on schedule and should 
be achieved in 2008. Feasibility studies are 
currently under way reviewing possibilities  
of expanding the Cerrejón operation beyond  
32 Mtpa.
“ The increasing demand  
for thermal coal from  
China continues to 
demonstrate coal’s 
strategic importance 
within the global  
energy mix” 50 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Business unit overview continued
Outlook
The increasing demand for thermal coal from 
China continues to demonstrate coal’s strategic 
importance within the global energy mix. 
Compared to oil and gas, coal’s security of 
supply from widely distributed reserves make it 
one of the world’s most reliable energy sources. 
This, together with the development and 
implementation of clean coal technologies will, 
over time, provide coal with the opportunity  
to make a significant contribution towards 
satisfying future global energy demand while 
addressing environmental concerns.
In South Africa, the rand/dollar exchange 
rate and coal prices will continue to be the  
two main variables in 2008. Export spot coal 
prices have doubled over the past six months, 
reaching record highs. Globally, the high 
demand for electricity and increased economic 
activity are expected to continue into 2008, 
which will have a positive impact on earnings. 
In Australia, port and rail expansions and 
related constraints are set to continue in 2008. 
Alternative sales routes have been secured, 
enabling the large stockpiles built in 2007 to be 
reduced. Infrastructure related supply constraints 
will result in a return to higher prices in the 
current contract negotiations for delivery later 
in 2008. Growth from projects will deliver 
higher volumes in 2008.
Right: Night-time operations in the open  
pit at New Vaal colliery, which supplies 
thermal coal to South Africa’s electricity 
utility, Eskom
“ The $505 million 
Zondagsfontein project 
has been approved and 
is expected to deliver 
6.6 Mtpa from 2010” Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 51
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Industrial Minerals
Operating profit
2006
$317 m
2007
$474 m
EBITDA
2006
$539 m
2007
$732 m
•  Tarmac occupies leading position  
in aggregates and ready-mix concrete 
in the UK
•  Operating profits climb by 38% 
(excluding benefit from exchange rate 
movements) on prior year
•  Tarmac is a cash generative business 
with strong prospects in the UK and 
continental Europe
 
Following a strategic review and as 
announced in August, the decision was 
taken to sell Tarmac. It is expected that 
the performance of Tarmac will underpin 
a competitive sale process; however it 
has been decided not to launch the 
marketing phase of the sale process until 
current credit market conditions improve. 
 Business overview
Anglo Industrial Minerals’ (AIM) sole business 
is Tarmac, an international heavy building 
materials producer. In the UK it is a market 
leader in aggregates, asphalt, mortar and ready-
mixed concrete and it has significant operations 
in concrete products, lime and cement. It has 
operations in continental Europe and the Middle 
East, where it is principally involved in the 
production of crushed rock, sand and gravel, 
asphalt, ready-mixed concrete and concrete 
products.
Tarmac’s UK organisation consists of two 
business units, Aggregate Products and Building 
Products, which are supported by a shared service 
centre based in central England. Aggregate 
Products comprises aggregates, asphalt, 
contracting, recycling and ready-mixed concrete. 
The organisation is based in seven geographical 
areas, enabling strong local customer focus. 
Building Products is made up of those businesses 
that have essentially national markets, including 
cement, lime, mortar and concrete products.
Tarmac International is a combination of  
six businesses operating in 11 countries. It is  
a leading producer of hard rock, sand and gravel 
and concrete products in its Central European 
countries of operation, and of ready-mixed 
concrete in the Madrid and Alicante areas of 
Spain. In France and Poland, it has important 
and growing shares of the concrete products 
markets. In 2006, the company entered Turkey 
and acquired a developing business in Romania, 
involving interests in quarries and ready- 
mixed concrete.
Industry overview
Tarmac’s sand and gravel products are used 
mostly in the production of ready-mixed concrete, 
but are also used for fills and drainage. Extracted 
from pits and dredged from coastal waters, 
materials are washed and graded prior to use.
Its crushed rock is predominantly used  
for road construction (where it is used both  
as a foundation and, when heated and mixed 
with bitumen, as a surfacing material), other 
foundations, drainage, railway ballast and 
concrete products. Crushed rock may also  
be used in ready-mixed concrete.
Tarmac’s ready-mixed concrete is 
manufactured at production units located  
close to its market and is composed of sand, 
gravel, crushed rock, water, cement, cement 
replacements and other components dependent 
upon the performance required from the 
resultant mix. Ready-mixed concrete is 
transported to site in specialist truck mixers 
designed to mix the material during transit.
see also
p
27
Group financial performance
p
10
Our strategy in action 52 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Business unit overview continued
Mortar and screeds consist of sand, cement 
and various admixtures dependent on their 
application and performance requirements. 
Mortar is predominantly used for masonry 
applications such as bricklaying and will often 
contain lime to improve working properties. 
Asphalt, which is manufactured by coating 
graded, crushed rock with bitumen, is the main 
product used for surfacing roads. Applied hot  
or cold to road foundations, asphalt is either 
supplied to site or collected by contractors  
from strategically located plants.
Using extracted materials, Tarmac’s concrete 
products sector provides the construction 
industry with a variety of pre-fabricated 
products, including blocks for walling,  
pre-stressed structural flooring and engineered 
pre-cast elements.
Tarmac’s lime and cement, which employ 
similar production processes, are added value 
materials used widely within construction.  
Lime is also an important product in the 
environmental and industrial sectors.
The aggregates, asphalt and ready-mix 
markets in which Tarmac participate are 
consolidated in the UK, with the top five players 
accounting for more than 70% of each market. 
The cement market is also consolidated, with 
the leading five companies making up nearly 
90% of the market. The main aggregates 
players also compete, though to a lesser  
extent, in the more fragmented concrete 
products market.
 Strategy and growth
Tarmac’s strategy is to maximise shareholder 
value by exploiting its core competitive advantage 
of maintaining reserves in established territories 
and continuing acquisitive and organic growth  
in selected regions. In January 2008, Tarmac 
increased to 100% its ownership of United 
Marine Holdings, a significant UK marine 
dredged aggregates business. Tarmac will focus 
on the UK and Europe, with increasing emphasis 
on central and eastern Europe, where it can 
develop businesses of scale. It will also 
concentrate on aggregates and downstream 
activities where the latter provide routes to 
market for aggregates. Tarmac aims to be the 
supplier of choice across its full product range.
Several programmes are under way across 
the UK and international businesses which will 
deliver improvements in business performance 
and lay the foundations of a culture of continuous 
improvement in all businesses. Within Tarmac 
as a whole, there remains significant upside 
potential from operational and commercial 
business improvements and focused growth, 
with initiatives planned to deliver that upside  
by 2010.
Tarmac’s management team combines 
significant industry experience with new 
perspectives from complementary industries. 
During 2007, changes were made to the 
management teams and accountability and 
delivery ownership were clarified.
Right: National Contracting is part of  
Tarmac’s Aggregates Products business,  
which saw profits rise 21% on 2006.
“ Tarmac recently increased 
to 100% its ownership of 
United Marine Holdings,  
a significant UK marine 
dredged aggregates 
business” Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 53
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Financial overview
In 2007, Tarmac’s operating profit climbed  
by 38% (excluding benefit from exchange  
rate movements) to $474 million. Although the 
year was characterised by high cost pressures 
and volatile energy prices in a tight and highly 
competitive market, disciplined margin 
management, procurement initiatives and 
healthy demand from certain sectors had a 
major positive bearing on results. In the UK, 
operating profits grew by 41% with sales 
growing ahead of the market. At Tarmac 
International, operating profits were 32% 
higher, benefiting from milder weather and 
buoyant markets in France, Poland and the 
Czech Republic. 
Markets
The construction industry has experienced 
challenging market conditions over the past  
few years, and some weakness could continue, 
particularly with roads and housing. The volatility 
of energy prices and the impact on cement and 
distribution costs will also continue to affect  
the industry.
Operating performance
The year was marked by a range of initiatives  
to drive and unlock further shareholder value 
from the current portfolio of businesses. 
Overall, within the UK market, volumes  
in aggregates and concrete products were in line 
with growth in the construction markets, with 
lower demand in housing and roads being offset 
by improved demand in the commercial and 
infrastructure sectors.
In the UK Aggregate Products business, 
operating profits increased by 21% compared 
with the 2006 figure, mainly as a consequence 
of the business being well placed to capitalise 
on benign markets as well as successful cost 
savings initiatives aimed at ensuring that 
aggregates and asphalt deliveries come from 
the lowest cost source available.
In the UK Building Products business, 
operating profits increased by 27% compared 
with 2006. Its commercial strategy was 
focused around offering customers 
comprehensive building solutions. Cement 
achieved record turnover in 2007, driven by 
increased output in a favourable market 
environment. A thorough review of the 
operational and commercial structure of 
Buxton Lime and Cement has been undertaken, 
a process that is now largely complete, with the 
consequent improvements expected to 
contribute $10 million of additional cost savings 
during the period 2008 to 2010. 
Tarmac International’s higher operating profits 
were partially offset by market weaknesses 
and high cost pressures in Spain and Romania. 
The year witnessed a rebalancing of the 
company’s international activities, with a 
$20 million expansion programme in growth 
areas such as Dubai and the benefits coming 
through in 2007 from the disposal of non-core 
or underperforming businesses in 2006.
Outlook
A three year business plan is now in place that 
will deliver performance gains through to 2010, 
driven by efficiency improvements and targeted 
capital expenditure. In the UK, a predicted 
downturn in the housing market and low 
investment levels in road building are expected 
to have a modest effect in the short term.  
The outlook for non-residential and civil 
construction is stable, with further demand 
support in the London area from the 2012 
Olympics and other major infrastructure 
projects such as the widening of the M25  
and the potential Crossrail east-west rail link. 
Internationally, Tarmac has a presence in 
attractive markets with strong fundamentals 
and compelling growth prospects. At a time 
when industrial minerals are in high demand, 
Tarmac has access to substantial reserves  
(3.2 billion tonnes of quarry reserves worldwide) 
and has direct and stable routes to end-markets.
$ million  
(unless otherwise stated) 2007 2006
Operating profit 474 317
EBITDA 732 539
Net operating assets 4,509 4,185
Capital expenditure 274 279
Share of Group 
operating profit 5% 4%
Share of Group net 
operating assets 17% 20%
In 2007, Copebrás and Yang Quarry were reclassified from 
Industrial Minerals to Base Metals and Coal respectively, to align 
with internal management reporting. As such, the comparative 
data has been reclassified. 54 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Business unit overview continued
Paper and Packaging
$ million 2007 2006
Operating profit
(1)
324 477
 Packaging 195 287
 Business Paper 105 130
 Other 24 60
EBITDA 560 923
(1)
  On 2 July 2007 the Paper and Packaging business was demerged 
from the Group by way of a dividend in specie paid to shareholders. 
The results for 2007 are reported up to the date of demerger.
Attributable operating profit from Paper and 
Packaging of $324 million represents a 32% 
decrease against the prior year. The decrease 
was due to the demerger of the Paper and 
Packaging business from the Group by way  
of a dividend in specie on 2 July 2007. The results 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 are, 
therefore, reported up to the date of demerger.
For the six months to the date of demerger, 
Mondi experienced a substantial improvement 
in performance compared with the same period 
in the prior year, with operating profit up 53%  
to $324 million. There was a significant pick-up  
in the trading environment, particularly in 
Packaging, with price increases across all major 
paper grades. Business Paper also benefited 
from better operability of the PM31 paper machine 
in Merebank, South Africa, complemented by 
modest increases in uncoated woodfree paper 
pricing. These positive developments were 
partially offset by significant cost inflation in 
fibre costs as a result of Chinese fibre demand 
and alternative uses for wood in Europe.
Discontinued operations
AngloGold Ashanti
$ million 2007 2006
Share of associates’  
operating profit
(1)
202 467
EBITDA 401 843
(1)
  The results for 2007 are reported as an associate up to  
2 October 2007. After this date the remaining investment is 
accounted for as a financial asset investment. The results for 2006 
are reported as a subsidiary up to 20 April 2006 and thereafter as 
an associate at 42% attributable.
Attributable operating profit from AngloGold 
Ashanti of $202 million represented a 57% 
decrease against the prior year. The decrease  
is due to the Group accounting for AngloGold 
Ashanti as an associate until 2 October 2007 
when the Group sold 67.1 million shares in 
AngloGold Ashanti, which reduced the Group’s 
shareholding from 41.6% to 17.3%, as well as 
four months of contribution as a subsidiary in 
2006. The Group’s shareholding in AngloGold 
Ashanti is 16.6% at 31 December 2007.  
The remaining investment is accounted for  
as a financial asset investment. The AngloGold 
Ashanti business is presented in the Group’s 
financial statements as a discontinued operation. Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 55
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Anglo American is exposed to a variety of risks 
and uncertainties which may have a financial  
or reputational impact on the Group and which 
may also impact the achievement of social, 
economic and environmental objectives. These 
risks include strategic, commercial, operational, 
compliance and financial risks. The principal 
risks and uncertainties facing the Group have 
been categorised into headline risk areas. The 
Group’s approach to risk management is set out 
in the corporate governance section on pages 
65 to 69.
The key headline risks identified for 2008, 
potential impacts on the Group and the 
mitigation strategies are summarised below.
Key headline risks
Safety, health and environment
Mining is a hazardous industry and failure  
to adopt high levels of safety management can 
result in a number of negative outcomes; harm 
to our employees and the communities that  
live near our mines, harm to the environment  
as well as fines and penalties, liability to 
employees and third parties for injury and loss 
of reputation. Anglo American sets a very high 
priority on safety, health and environmental 
issues. Anglo American recognises the HIV/
AIDS epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa is a 
significant threat to economic growth and 
development. In 2002 the Group announced  
it would provide anti-retroviral therapy to 
employees with HIV/AIDS. Anglo American  
also invests considerable resources in research 
and development to minimise the impact the 
Group’s operations have on the environment, 
for example seeking ways to improve energy 
efficiency. The Group believes it must make  
an enduring contribution to the societies in 
which it operates, and implements principles  
of sustainable development. In doing so the 
Group aspires to forge good relationships with 
its local communities.
Treasury and capital risk management
The Group’s principal treasury policies are set by 
the Board. The Group treasury acts as a service 
centre and operates within clearly defined 
guidelines that are approved by the Board. 
Treasury front office and treasury back office 
are segregated and report to separate executive 
positions. The Anglo American accounting 
department provides an independent control 
function to monitor and report on treasury 
activities, which are also subject to regular 
review by internal and external audit.
The treasury operations of the Group’s 
associate, De Beers, are independently managed.
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk arising 
from the need to finance its ongoing operations 
and growth. As a consequence of its global 
operations the Group is exposed to currency  
risk where transactions are not conducted in 
dollars, where assets and liabilities are not 
determined in dollars or where assets and 
liabilities are not dollar denominated. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
Understanding our key risks and developing  
appropriate responses to those risks is key  
to Anglo American’s success
Sensitivity analysis in respect of currency and commodity prices
Set out below is the impact on underlying earnings of a 10% fluctuation in some of the Group’s 
commodity prices and exchange rates.
Commodity currency Average price/rate
(6)
10% sensitivity US$ million
(1)
Platinum $1,304/oz 152
Palladium $355/oz 25
Coal $63/t
(2)
199
Copper 323 c/lb
(3)(4)
333
Nickel 1,686 c/lb
(3)
104
Zinc 147 c/b
(3)
85
Iron ore $61/t
(5)
91
ZAR/USD 7.05 278
AUD/USD 1.19 95
CLP/USD 522 27
GBP/USD 0.50 4
(1)
  Excludes the effect of any hedging activities. Stated after tax at marginal rate. Sensitivities are the average of the positive and negative and reflect 
the impact of a 10% change in the average prices received and exchange rates during 2007. Increases in commodity prices increase underlying 
earnings and vice versa. A strengthening of the rand, Australian dollar and Chilean peso relative to the US dollar reduces underlying earnings and 
vice versa. A strengthening of the pound sterling relative to the US dollar increases underlying earnings and vice versa.
(2)
  Average price represents RSA-API 4 index. Sensitivity reflects the impact of a 10% change in the average price across the entire Anglo Coal 
product portfolio.
(3)
  Being the average LME price. Sensitivity reflects the impact of a 10% change in the average price received.
(4)
  Copper sensitivity excludes the impact of provisionally priced copper from 2006. At 31 December 2007 there were 140,137 tonnes of 
provisionally priced copper sales, marked at 302 c/lb (2006: 140,098 tonnes, marked at 287 c/lb).
(5)
  Average price represents iron ore lump. Sensitivity reflects the impact of a 10% change in the average price across lump and fine.
(6)
 ‘oz’ denotes ounces, ‘t’ denotes tonnes, ‘c’ denotes US cents, ‘lb’ denotes pounds.
Commodity prices determined primarily  
by international markets and global supply  
and demand give rise to commodity price risk 
across the Group. The recent strong commodity  
price cycle has been due in part to economic 
growth in China and other developing nations. 
Any reduction in growth could have a negative 
impact on commodity prices with a resulting 
adverse effect on financial performance.  
Cash deposits and other financial instruments, 
including trade receivables due from third 
parties, give rise to counterparty credit risk.
Further details of these risks and their 
management are provided in note 25 to the 
financial statements. In addition, the Group’s 
capital structure and its capital risk management 
policy is set out in note 25 to the financial 
statements.
The main exchange rates giving rise  
to currency risk in the Group are shown on  
page 109. 56 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Operating  
and financial  
review
Supplier risk
The strong commodity cycle experienced  
in recent years has resulted in increased 
competition for critical supplies. This increased 
demand can cause circumstances where 
supplies are unable to be fulfilled as required  
or involves cost increases above normal 
inflation rates. The Group has a proactive 
approach to procurement that aims to minimise 
the impact of this risk through maximisation  
of purchasing leverage across the business.
Contractors
Mining contractors are used at certain of our 
operations to mine and deliver ore to processing 
plants. In periods of high commodity prices, 
demand for contractors may exceed supply, 
resulting in increased costs or a lack of availability 
of key contractors. The group mitigates this  
risk through relationship management and 
planning activity.
Political, legal and regulatory
Businesses may be affected by any political  
or regulatory developments in any of the 
countries and jurisdictions in which they 
operate, including changes to fiscal regimes  
or other regulatory regimes, which may result  
in restrictions on the export of currency, 
expropriation of assets and imposition of 
royalties. The Group has no control over 
changes in local inflation, market interest  
rates or political acts or omissions which may 
deprive the Group of the economic benefits  
of ownership of its assets. The Group actively 
monitors regulatory and policy developments. 
The Venezuelan mining ministry has 
initiated proceedings to terminate 
Anglo American’s exploration and exploitation 
concessions. Further details are provided on  
page 41.
Inflation
As the Group is unable to control the market 
price at which the commodities it produces are 
sold (except for any forward sales or derivative 
contracts) it is possible that higher inflation in 
the countries Anglo American operates may 
result in an increase in future operational costs 
without a concurrent devaluation of the local 
currency against the dollar or an increase in  
the dollar price of the applicable commodities. 
Cost inflation in the mining sector is more 
apparent during periods of high commodity 
prices as demand can exceed supply.
Anglo American mitigates this risk through 
a close monitoring of costs, implementation of 
cost saving strategies and maximising leverage 
of purchasing spend across the business.
Event risk
Damage to or breakdown of a physical asset 
including risk of fire and explosion, can result  
in loss of revenue or consequential losses.  
The Group’s operations can be exposed to 
natural risks such as extreme weather 
conditions. Specialist consultants are engaged 
to provide information regarding key event 
exposures and recommendations to reduce 
exposures. Anglo American seeks to purchase 
insurance to protect against catastrophic event 
risk though conditions in global insurance 
markets mean this is not always possible  
or economic at certain times.
Reserves and resources
The Group’s mineral resources and ore reserves 
estimates are subject to a number of assumptions, 
including the price of commodities, production 
costs and recovery rates. Fluctuations in these 
variables may have an impact on the long term 
financial condition and prospects of the Group. 
In South Africa, the Minerals and Petroleum 
Resources Development Act (2002) provides  
for conversion of existing mining and exploration 
rights to ‘new order rights’. Conversion of these 
rights is subject to a variety of conditions  
and undertakings by the applicant, including 
employment, skills development and ownership 
by historically disadvantaged South Africans 
(HDSAs), specifically 15% ownership by 2009 
and 26% by 2014. In February 2008, the South 
African Department of Minerals and Energy 
confirmed it would award Anglo American with 
all its new order mining rights, subject to 
completion of outstanding documentation, 
by 31 March 2008. Details of this conversion 
process and the Group’s policy on reporting  
of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources with 
reference to the Act are expanded on in the 
specific section on Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resources estimates.
Exploration
Exploration and development of mines is costly 
and can be unproductive but failure to discover 
new reserves in sufficient amounts could 
adversely affect future results and the Group’s 
financial condition. Anglo American mitigates this 
risk through a dedicated Exploration Division with 
experience and expertise in mine development.
Employees
The ability to recruit, develop and retain the 
appropriate skills for Anglo American is made 
difficult by global competition for skilled labour 
amongst resource companies, particularly  
in periods of high commodity prices. A number  
of strategies are implemented to mitigate this 
risk including attention to an appropriate suite 
of reward and benefit structures and ongoing 
refinement of Anglo American as an attractive 
employee proposition.
Employees in the key countries that Anglo 
operates are unionised and risk of strike or  
other industrial relations disputes could have  
an adverse effect on results of operations. 
Anglo American mitigates this risk through  
a process of constructive dialogue with unions 
and relationship management.
Operational performance
Failure to meet production targets results  
in increased unit costs. The impact is more 
pronounced at operations with a high level of 
fixed costs. Mitigation strategies include efforts 
to secure strategic supplies at competitive 
prices, energy reduction, increased use of green 
energy and sale of excess emission credits,  
use of cheaper alternative inputs, application  
of group water management guidelines and 
business improvement initiatives to reduce unit 
costs. In addition, the Group manages a strong 
project pipeline. In doing so the Group must 
manage the associated risk of meeting project 
delivery times and costs.
Community relations
The Group operates in several countries where 
ownership of rights in respect of land and 
resources are uncertain and where disputes  
in relation to ownership or other community 
matters may arise. These disputes cannot be 
predicted and hence they may cause disruption 
to projects. The Group has implemented a process 
to assess and manage community relationship 
issues and will work to form good relationships 
with local communities. 
Principal risks and uncertainties continued Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 57
 
Operating  
and financial  
review
Acquisitions
The Group has undertaken a number of 
acquisitions in the past. With these, as with  
any such future transaction, there is the risk 
that any benefits or synergies identified at 
acquisition may not be achieved. Rigorous 
guidelines are applied to the evaluation and 
execution of all acquisitions, which require 
approval of the Investment Committee and 
Chief Executive’s Committee and, in the  
case of acquisitions beyond a certain value,  
the approval of the Board.
Infrastructure
Inadequate supporting facilities, services, 
installations (water, power, transportation,  
etc.) may impact the sustainability and/or 
growth of the business, leading to loss of 
competitiveness, market share and reputation. 
An example of the type of transportation risks 
that can have an effect on the Group’s 
businesses are described in further detail on 
page 49. Anglo American promotes early 
development of strategy and alignment with 
infrastructure owner/operator, development of 
relationships, participation in industry groups 
and lobbying to ensure effective provision of 
services by key utility providers.
Critical accounting judgements  
and key sources of estimation and 
uncertainty
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies, which are presented in note 1 to the 
financial statements, management necessarily 
makes judgements and estimates that have a 
significant effect on the amounts recognised  
in the financial statements. Changes in the 
assumptions underlying the estimates could 
result in a significant impact on the financial 
statements. The most critical of these are:
Useful economic lives of assets and ore 
reserves estimates
The Group’s mining properties, classified  
within tangible assets, are depreciated over  
the respective life of the mine using the unit  
of production (UOP) method based on proven 
and probable reserves. When determining ore 
reserves, assumptions that were valid at the 
time of estimation may change when new 
information becomes available. Any changes 
could affect prospective depreciation rates and 
asset carrying values.
The calculation of the UOP rate of 
amortisation could be impacted to the extent 
that actual production in the future is different 
from current forecast production based on 
proven and probable mineral reserves. 
These factors could include:
•  changes of proven and probable mineral 
reserves;
•  the grade of mineral reserves varying 
significantly from time to time;
•  differences between actual commodity 
prices and commodity price assumptions 
used in the estimation of mineral reserves;
•  unforeseen operational issues at mine sites; 
and
•  changes in capital, operating mining, 
processing and reclamation costs, discount 
rates and foreign exchange rates possibly 
adversely affecting the economic viability 
of mineral reserves.
The majority of other tangible assets are 
depreciated on a straight line basis over their 
useful economic lives. Management reviews  
the appropriateness of assets useful economic 
lives at least annually and, again, any changes 
could affect prospective depreciation rates  
and asset carrying values.
Impairment of assets
The Group reviews the carrying amounts of  
its tangible and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those 
assets are impaired. In making the assessment 
for impairment, assets that do not generate 
independent cash flows are allocated to an 
appropriate cash generating unit (CGU).  
The recoverable amount of those assets, or CGU, 
is measured as the higher of their fair value  
less costs to sell and value in use.
Management necessarily applies its 
judgement in allocating assets that do not 
generate independent cash flows to appropriate 
CGUs, and also in estimating the timing and 
value of underlying cash flows within the  
value in use calculation. Subsequent changes  
to the CGU allocation or to the timing of cash 
flows could impact the carrying value of the 
respective assets.
Restoration, rehabilitation and 
environmental costs
Provision is made, based on net present values, 
for restoration, rehabilitation and environmental 
costs as soon as the obligation arises. Costs 
incurred at the start of each project are 
capitalised and charged to the income statement 
over the life of the project through depreciation 
of the asset and the unwinding of the discount 
on the provision. Costs for restoration of 
subsequent site damage are provided at net 
present value and charged against profits as 
extraction progresses. Environmental costs  
are estimated using either the work of external 
consultants or internal experts. Management 
uses its judgement and experience to provide 
for and amortise these estimated costs over the 
life of the mine.
Retirement benefits
The expected costs of providing pensions and 
post retirement benefits under defined benefit 
arrangements relating to employee service 
during the period are charged to the income 
statement. Any actuarial gains and losses, 
which can arise from differences between 
expected and actual outcomes or changes  
in actuarial assumptions, are recognised 
immediately in the consolidated statement  
of recognised income and expense.
Assumptions in respect of the expected 
costs are set after consultation with qualified 
actuaries. While management believes the 
assumptions used are appropriate, a change  
in the assumptions used would impact the 
earnings of the Group.
Special items
Operating special items are those that 
management considers, by virtue of their size  
or incidence, should be disclosed separately to 
ensure that the financial information also allows 
an understanding of the underlying performance 
of the business. The determination as to which 
items should be disclosed separately requires  
a degree of judgement. 58 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Governance
The Board
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart KCMG N
PhD, MA, FGS
67, was appointed a non-executive 
director on 16 July 2002 and non-executive 
chairman on 1 December 2002. He also sits  
on the Remuneration, Safety and Sustainable 
Development (S&SD) and Nomination 
Committees. He is a director of HSBC Holdings 
plc, Accenture Ltd and Saudi Aramco. Sir Mark 
was chairman of The Shell Transport and 
Trading Company plc from 1997 to 2001 and  
is a member of the board of the UN Global 
Compact and Chairman of the Global  
Compact Foundation.
Cynthia Carroll E
MSc, MBA
51, was appointed chief executive on  
1 March 2007, having joined the Board on  
15 January 2007. Cynthia Carroll chairs the 
Executive Committee (ExCo) and the Chief 
Executive’s Committee (CeCom) and sits on  
the S&SD Committee. She is the former 
president and chief executive officer of Alcan’s 
Primary Metals Group and a former director of 
AngloGold Ashanti Limited and the Sara Lee 
Corporation. She is a non-executive director of 
BP plc, Anglo Platinum Limited and De Beers.
René Médori E
Doctorate in Economics
50, was appointed to the Board on  
1 June 2005, becoming finance director on 
1 September 2005. René Médori is a member 
of ExCo, CeCom and chairman of the 
Investment Committee. He is a former finance 
director of The BOC Group plc and is a  
non-executive director of Scottish and  
Southern Energy plc, De Beers, DB Investments 
and Anglo Platinum Limited. Mr Médori is being 
proposed for re-election at the AGM on  
15 April 2008.
Bobby Godsell N
MA
55, joined the Board on 18 March 1999.  
He is a member of the S&SD Committee and 
has been with the Group since 1974. He is a 
former chief executive of AngloGold Ashanti. 
He is chairman of South Africa’s national 
business organisation, BUSA, and a past 
president of South Africa’s Chamber of Mines. 
Mr Godsell will retire from the Board at the  
AGM on 15 April 2008.
David Challen CBE N
MA, MBA
64, joined the Board on 9 September 2002. 
He is chairman of the Audit Committee and a 
member of the Remuneration Committee. David 
Challen is currently vice chairman of Citigroup 
European Investment Bank and a non-executive 
director of Smiths Group plc. Previously he was 
chairman of J. Henry Schroder & Co. Limited, 
where he spent most of his professional career. 
He is currently deputy chairman of the UK’s 
Takeover Panel. Mr Challen will succeed Sir Rob 
Margetts as senior independent non-executive 
director on 15 April 2008.
Sir Rob Margetts CBE N
BA, FREng
61, joined the Board on 18 March 1999 and  
was appointed as the senior independent  
non-executive director in April 2003. He will  
be succeeded as the senior independent  
non-executive director by David Challen  
on 15 April 2008. He is chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of the 
Nomination Committee. He is chairman of Legal 
& General Group Plc, Ensus Limited and the 
Energy Technologies Institute. He was formerly 
chairman of The BOC Group plc and vice 
chairman of ICI PLC. Sir Rob was also chairman 
of the UK Natural Environment Research Council 
and a member of the UK Council for Science and 
Technology. In accordance with the provisions 
of the Combined Code, directors who have 
served longer than nine years are subject to 
annual re-election and, accordingly, Sir Rob is 
being proposed for re-election at the AGM on 
15 April 2008.
Left to right:  
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Cynthia Carroll, René Médori,  
Bobby Godsell, David Challen, Sir Rob Margetts
E – Executive director 
N – Non-executive director Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 59
About
Anglo
American Governance
Professor Karel Van Miert N
Graduate in Diplomatic Sciences
66, joined the Board on 19 March 2002.  
He is a member of the Audit and Nomination 
Committees. He is currently a member of the 
supervisory boards of German utility RWE, 
Philips NV, Munich Re and Vivendi Universal. 
He is also a member of the advisory boards of 
Goldman Sachs and Eli Lilly and a member of 
the boards of Solvay s.a. and Agfa-Gevaert. 
He was previously President of Nyenrode 
University, Netherlands Business School, 
a member of the European Parliament from 
1979 to 1985 and a member of the European 
Commission from 1989 to 1999. Professor 
Van Miert is being proposed for re-election at 
the AGM on 15 April 2008.
Nicky Oppenheimer N
MA
62, joined the Board on 18 March 1999.  
He is a member of the Nomination Committee. 
Nicky Oppenheimer joined the Group in 1968 
and subsequently became an executive director 
and a deputy chairman of Anglo American 
South Africa Limited. He became deputy 
chairman of De Beers Consolidated in 1985 
and has been chairman of De Beers since 1998. 
Fred Phaswana N
MA, BCom
63, joined the Board on 12 June 2002. He is 
chairman of the Nomination Committee  
and a member of the Audit Committee.  
Fred Phaswana is currently chairman of Anglo 
Platinum and Transnet Limited and a director  
of Naspers and was previously BP regional 
president: Africa, a director of BP Oil (Benelux), 
an associate president of BP Netherlands and 
chairman and chief executive of BP Southern 
Africa. He is also a member of the South African 
Institute of International Affairs.
Dr Chris Fay CBE N
BSc, PhD, FREng, FRSE, FICE, FEI
62, joined the Board on 19 April 1999. He is 
chairman of the S&SD Committee and a 
member of the Remuneration and Audit 
Committees. He is a non-executive director of 
Conister Trust plc and non-executive chairman 
of Stena International S.àr.l and Expro 
International Group plc. He is a former  
non-executive director of BAA plc. Chris Fay  
is a former chairman of Shell UK and of the 
British government’s Advisory Committee on 
Business and the Environment. In accordance 
with the provisions of the Combined Code, 
directors who have served longer than nine 
years are subject to annual re-election and, 
accordingly, Dr Fay is being proposed for  
re-election at the AGM on 15 April 2008.
see also
p
61
directors’ report
p
70
directors’ remuneration
Dr Mamphela Ramphele N
PhD, BComm
60, joined the Board on 25 April 2006.  
She is a member of the Nomination and S&SD 
Committees. Dr Ramphele is the chair of Circle 
Capital Ventures, a black empowerment 
company, and is a non-executive director of the 
Mediclinic and Business Partners S.A. She was 
formerly co-chair of the Global Commission on 
International Migration, a World Bank managing 
director and vice-chancellor at the University of 
Cape Town. 
Peter Woicke N
MBA
65, joined the Board on 1 January 2006  
and is a member of the Audit, Nomination and 
S&SD Committees. From 1999 to January  
2005 he was chief executive officer of the 
International Finance Corporation. He was also 
a managing director of the World Bank. Prior to 
joining the International Finance Corporation, 
Peter Woicke held numerous positions over 
nearly 30 years with J.P. Morgan. He is currently 
a member of the Plugpower Inc. and Saudi 
Aramco boards and was previously a member  
of the Raiffeisen International Holding and  
MTN Group boards. 
Left to right:  
Professor Karel Van Miert, Nicky Oppenheimer, Fred Phaswana,  
Dr Chris Fay, Dr Mamphela Ramphele, Peter Woicke Governance
60 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee develops corporate and 
business unit strategy, monitors strategic process 
in terms of key milestones and reviews operational 
and safety procedures of the Group’s business units 
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10
1. Cynthia Carroll
See page 58 for biographical 
details.
2. René Médori
See page 58 for biographical 
details.
3. Russell King 
BA Hons
50, has held a variety of business 
and functional responsibilities in 
the UK and Australia with ICI PLC. 
From 1997 to 2000 he was 
managing director of Orica 
Consumer Products. He joined 
Anglo American in July 2001 as 
executive vice president, Group 
human resources and business 
development, and is responsible for 
sustainable development issues. 
4. Tony Redman 
MSc, BSc
59, worked for Anglo American 
on the Zambian Copperbelt from 
1970 to 1974. In 1976 he started 
working at Vaal Reefs gold mine 
before moving to the Anglo Coal 
division in 1979, where he was 
appointed managing director in 
1996 and chairman in 2002. 
In January 2005 he took up the 
position of Group technical director 
of Anglo American. He is a member 
of the Executive Committee, the 
Investment Committee and the 
S&SD Committee.
5. Philip Baum
BCom, LLB, Higher Dip Tax Law
53, is chief executive of Anglo 
Ferrous Metals and acting chief 
executive of Anglo American 
South Africa. He joined the Group 
in 1979 and became a member of 
the Executive Committee in 
January 2006.
6. Duncan Wanblad
BSc (Eng) Mech, GDE 
(Eng Management) 
41, has been joint acting chief 
executive of Anglo Platinum since 
August 2007. He joined 
Johannesburg Consolidated 
Investment Company Limited in 
1990 and was appointed executive 
director: projects and engineering 
of Anglo Platinum in 2004. 
7. Norman Mbazima
FCCA, FZICA
49, has been joint acting chief 
executive of Anglo Platinum since 
August 2007. He joined the Group 
in 2001 and was appointed 
executive director: finance of 
Anglo Platinum in 2006.
8. Brian Beamish
BSc (Mechanical Engineering)
51, is chief executive of Anglo Base 
Metals. From 1995 to 1999 he was 
executive director: operations at 
Anglo Platinum. He transferred to 
Anglo Base Metals in January 2000 
and was chief operating officer from 
April 2005 until April 2007 when he 
became chief executive. 
9. John Wallington
BSc
50, started his career at Anglo 
American as a mining graduate 
in 1981. He was appointed 
executive vice president: South 
African operations at Anglo Coal in 
2001 and has been chief executive 
of Anglo Coal since January 2005.
10. David Weston
MBA, BSc (Eng)
49, is chief executive of Anglo 
Industrial Minerals. He spent  
25 years with Shell and was 
President, Shell Canada Products, 
before joining the Anglo American 
Group in 2006.  
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 61
Directors’ report
The directors have pleasure in submitting the 
statutory financial statements of the Group for 
the year ended 31 December 2007. 
Principal activities and business review
Anglo American plc is one of the world’s largest 
mining and natural resource groups. With its 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, it  
is a global leader in platinum group metals and 
diamonds, with significant interests in coal, 
base and ferrous metals, as well as an industrial 
minerals business and a stake in AngloGold 
Ashanti. The Group is geographically diverse 
with operations in Africa, Europe, South and 
North America, Australia and Asia.
More detailed information about the Group’s 
businesses, activities and financial performance 
is incorporated into this report by reference and 
can be found in the chairman’s and chief 
executive’s statements on pages 4 to 9,  
the operating and financial review on pages  
14 to 57 and the section entitled “substantial 
shareholdings” in the Notice of Meeting  
booklet.
Going concern
The directors have made enquiries and the 
Group’s business is a going concern as 
interpreted by the Guidance on Going Concern 
and Financial Reporting for directors of listed 
companies registered in the UK, published in 
November 1994.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 38 US cents per ordinary 
share was paid on 20 September 2007. The 
directors are recommending that a final dividend 
of 86 US cents per ordinary share, be paid on  
30 April 2008 subject to shareholder approval  
at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) to be held 
on 15 April 2008. This would bring the total 
dividend in respect of 2007 to 124 US cents per 
ordinary share. However, in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS), the final dividend will be accounted for in 
the financial statements for the year ended 31 
December 2008.
Three shareholders have waived their rights 
to receive dividends. In both cases, these 
shareholders act as trustees/nominees holding 
shares for use solely in relation to the Group’s 
employee share plans. These shareholders  
and the value of dividends waived during the 
year were:
Greenwood Nominees Limited $17,353,803.20
Security Nominees Limited $128,503.87
Rose Nominees Limited $7,791.09
Share capital
The Company’s authorised and issued share 
capital as at 31 December 2007, together with 
details of share allotments and purchases of 
own shares during the year, is set out in note 29 
on pages 116 to 120.
The Company was authorised by 
shareholders at the Extraordinary General 
Meeting (EGM) held on 25 June 2007 to 
purchase its own shares in the market up to a 
maximum of 10% of the issued share capital. 
This authority will expire at the 2008 AGM  
and in accordance with current best practice,  
the Company will propose a resolution to 
increase the maximum authority to purchase  
its own shares on the market to 14.99% of 
issued capital. 
Material shareholdings
Details of interests of 3% or more in the 
ordinary share capital of the Company are 
shown within the shareholder information 
section of the Notice of Meeting booklet.
Directors
Biographical details of the directors currently 
serving on the Board are given on pages 58 and 
59. Details of directors’ interests in shares and 
share options of the Company can be found in 
the Remuneration report on pages 70 to 83. 
Cynthia Carroll was appointed to the Board 
on 15 January 2007 and succeeded Tony Trahar 
as Group chief executive on 1 March 2007. 
Tony Trahar retired from the Board at the 
conclusion of the AGM on 17 April 2007.  
Simon Thompson, David Hathorn and  
Ralph Alexander resigned from the Board on  
13 April, 3 July and 26 October 2007 respectively. 
Upon the recommendation of the Board,  
Sir CK Chow is being proposed for election as an 
independent non-executive director at the AGM. 
Sir CK (56) is currently chief executive of the 
MTR Corporation, a position he has held since 
December 2003. He was formerly chief 
executive of Brambles Industries and GKN. Prior 
to joining GKN he worked for the BOC Group for 
20 years, becoming chief executive of its Gases 
Division and joining its board in 1993. Sir CK is a 
chartered engineer and holds Bachelor of 
Science and Master of Science degrees in 
Chemical Engineering from the Universities of 
Wisconsin and California respectively. Sir CK 
was knighted in 2000 for his contribution in 
industry. He is a non-executive director of 
Standard Chartered plc and the non-executive 
chairman of Standard Chartered Bank  
(Hong Kong) Limited.
Sustainable development
The Report to Society 2007 will be available 
from the Company in April. This report focuses 
on the safety, sustainable development, health 
and environmental performance of the Group’s 
managed operations, their performance with 
regard to the Company’s Good Citizenship:  
Our Business Principles, and the operational 
dimensions of their social programmes.
Payment of suppliers
Anglo American plc is a holding company and, 
as such, has no trade creditors.
Businesses across the Group are responsible 
for agreeing the terms under which transactions 
with their suppliers are conducted, reflecting 
local and industry norms. The Group values its 
suppliers and recognises the benefits to be derived 
from maintaining good relationships with them. 
Anglo American acknowledges the importance  
of paying invoices, especially those of small 
businesses, promptly. 
Value of land
Land is mainly carried in the financial statements 
at cost. It is not practicable to estimate the market 
value of land and mineral rights, since these 
depend on product prices over the next 20 years 
or longer, which will vary with market conditions.
Post balance sheet events
Post balance sheet events are set out in note 42 
to the financial statements on page 132.
Audit information
The directors confirm that, so far as they are 
aware, there is no relevant audit information  
of which the auditors are unaware and that all 
directors have taken all reasonable steps to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the auditors 
are aware of that information. Governance
62 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Directors’ report continued
Employment and other policies 
The Anglo American Group’s key operating 
businesses are empowered to manage, within 
the context of their own industry and the 
different legislative and social demands of the 
diverse countries in which those businesses 
operate, subject to the standards embodied in 
Anglo American’s Good Citizenship: Our 
Business Principles.
Within all the Group’s businesses, the safe 
and effective performance of employees and 
the maintenance of positive employee relations 
are of fundamental importance. Managers are 
charged with ensuring that the following key 
principles are upheld:
•  adherence to national legal standards on 
employment and workplace rights at all 
times;
•  adoption of fair labour practices;
•  prohibition of child labour;
•  prohibition of inhumane treatment of 
employees and any form of forced labour, 
physical punishment or other abuse;
•  continual promotion of safe and healthy 
working practices;
•  promotion of workplace equality and 
elimination of all forms of unfair 
discrimination;
•  provision of opportunities for employees to 
enhance their work-related skills and 
capabilities;
•  recognition of the right of our employees to 
freedom of association; and
•  adoption of fair and appropriate procedures 
for determining terms and conditions of 
employment.
Further, the Group is committed to treating 
employees at all levels with respect and 
consideration, to investing in their development 
and to ensuring that their careers are not 
constrained by discrimination or arbitrary barriers.
Copies of the Good Citizenship: Our Business 
Principles booklet are available from the Company 
and may be accessed on the Company’s website 
www.angloamerican.co.uk
As in previous years, numerous employee 
communication and education presentations 
and workshops took place covering, among 
others, AIDS awareness, the Company’s 
charitable giving, climate change, exploration 
technologies and health and safety. The aim 
was to inform and consult employees on 
matters of concern to them and to raise 
awareness of financial and economic factors 
affecting the performance of the Group.
In addition, the Company regularly publishes 
Optima (available on the Company’s website) 
and AngloWorld, which contain items of news, 
current affairs and information relevant to Group 
employees. During the year, the Company 
continued to enhance the functionality of its 
enterprise information portal, theSource, aimed 
at promoting knowledge-sharing across the 
Group and keeping employees up to date with 
business developments. The availability 
of theSource continues to grow and it is now 
available to over 18,000 employees across  
the Group.
Charitable donations
During the year, Anglo American, its 
subsidiaries and the Anglo American Group 
Foundation made donations for charitable 
purposes or wider social investments 
amounting to $60.5 million (0.7% of pre-tax 
profit). Charitable donations of $3.09 million 
were made in the UK, consisting of payments in 
respect of education, sport and youth $1.321 
million (43 %); community development 
$0.642 million (21%); health and HIV/AIDS 
$0.28 million (9%); environment $0.135 
million (4%); arts, culture and heritage $0.241 
million (8%), and other charitable causes 
$0.469 million (15%). These figures were 
compiled with reference to the London 
Benchmarking Group model for defining and 
measuring social investment spending. A fuller 
analysis of the Group’s social investment 
activities can be found in the Report to Society 
2007. 
Political donations
No political donations were made during 2007. 
Anglo American has an established policy of not 
making donations to, or incurring expenses for 
the benefit of, any political party in any part of 
the world, including any political party or 
political organisation as defined in the Political 
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on 15 April 2008. A separate 
booklet enclosed with this report contains the 
notice convening the meeting together with a 
description of the business to be conducted.
Additional information for shareholders
Set out below is a summary of certain 
provisions of the Company’s current Articles of 
Association (the Articles) and applicable English 
law concerning companies (the Companies Act 
1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together 
the Companies Acts) required as a result of the 
implementation of the Takeovers Directive in 
English law. This is a summary only and the 
relevant provisions of the Articles or the 
Companies Acts should be consulted if further 
information is required. Certain amendments to 
the Articles will be proposed at the AGM to be 
held on 15 April 2008. Details are set out in the 
enclosed notice of the AGM. Copies of the 
Company’s Articles marked up to show the 
proposed amendments, are available by 
application to the Company Secretary at the 
Registered Office.
Dividends and distributions
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, 
the Company may by ordinary resolution from 
time to time declare dividends not exceeding 
the amount recommended by the Board. The 
Board may pay interim dividends whenever the 
financial position of the Company, in the opinion 
of the Board, justifies such payment. 
The Board may withhold payment of all  
or any part of any dividends or other monies 
payable in respect of the Company’s shares 
from a person with a 0.25% interest or more 
(as defined in the Articles) if such a person  
has been served with a notice after failing  
to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required  
to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The rights and obligations attaching to the 
ordinary and preference shares are set out in 
the Articles. The Articles may only be changed 
by the shareholders by special resolution.  
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 63
Voting
Subject to the Articles generally and to any 
special rights or restrictions as to voting 
attached by or in accordance with the Articles to 
any class of shares, on a show of hands every 
member who is present in person at a general 
meeting shall have one vote and on a poll every 
member who is present in person or by proxy 
shall have one vote for every share of which he/
she is the holder. It is, and has been for some 
years, the Company’s practice to hold a poll on 
every resolution at Annual and Extraordinary 
shareholder meetings. 
Where shares are held by trustees/
nominees in respect of the Group’s employee 
share plans and the voting rights attached to 
such shares are not directly exercisable by the 
employees, it is the Company’s practice that 
such rights are not exercised by the relevant 
trustee/nominee.
Under the Companies Acts, members are 
entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a 
member of the Company, to exercise all or any 
of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on 
their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting. 
A member may appoint more than one proxy in 
relation to a general meeting or class meeting 
provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise 
the rights attached to a different share or shares 
held by that member. A member that is a 
corporation may appoint one or more individuals 
to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class 
meetings as a corporate representative. 
The Company is aware of the debate 
concerning section 323 of the Companies Act 
2006, related to the voting rights of corporate 
representatives. Anglo American is committed 
to ensuring all investors have the opportunity to 
exercise their voting rights and, to this end, will 
adopt the guidance issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators 
(available at www.icsa.org.uk) in respect of its 
2008 AGM.
Restrictions on voting
No member shall, unless the directors 
otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of 
any share held by him/her to vote either 
personally or by proxy at a shareholders’ 
meeting or to exercise any other right conferred 
by membership in relation to shareholders’ 
meetings if any call or other sum presently 
payable by him/her to the Company in respect 
of that share remains unpaid. In addition,  
no member shall be entitled to vote if he/she 
has been served with a notice after failing 
to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required  
to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Issue of shares
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts 
relating to authority and pre-emption rights and 
of any resolution of the Company in a general 
meeting, all unissued shares of the Company 
shall be at the disposal of the directors and they 
may allot (with or without conferring a right of 
renunciation), grant options over or otherwise 
dispose of them to such persons, at such times 
and on such terms as they think proper.
Shares in uncertificated form
Directors may determine that any class of 
shares may be held in uncertificated form  
and title to such shares may be transferred  
by means of a relevant system or that shares  
of any class should cease to be held and 
transferred. Subject to the provisions of the 
Companies Acts, the CREST Regulations and 
every other statute, statutory instrument, 
regulation or order for the time being in force 
concerning companies and affecting the 
Company (together, the Statutes), the directors 
may determine that any class of shares held on 
the branch register of members of the Company 
resident in South Africa or any other overseas 
branch register of the members of the Company 
may be held in uncertificated form in accordance 
with any system outside the UK which enables 
title to such shares to be evidenced and 
transferred without a written instrument and 
which is a relevant system. The provisions of 
the Articles shall not apply to shares of any 
class which are in uncertificated form to the 
extent that the Articles are inconsistent with 
the holding of shares of that class in 
uncertificated form, the transfer of title to 
shares of that class by means of a relevant 
system or any provision of the CREST Regulations.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights
Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of 
the Company in respect of which the business 
being voted upon is being heard. Votes may be 
exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to 
corporate members, by corporate representative. 
The Articles provide a deadline for submission 
of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours 
before the time appointed for the holding of the 
meeting or adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights
Subject to statute, the Articles specify that 
rights attached to any class of shares may be 
varied with the written consent of the holders 
of not less than three-quarters in nominal value 
of the issued shares of that class, or with the 
sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed 
at a separate general meeting of the holders of 
those shares. At every such separate general 
meeting the quorum shall be two persons 
holding or representing by proxy at least one-
third in nominal value of the issued shares of 
the class (calculated excluding any shares held 
as treasury shares). The rights conferred upon 
the holders of any shares shall not, unless 
otherwise expressly provided in the rights 
attaching to those shares, be deemed to be 
varied by the creation or issue of further shares 
ranking pari passu with them.
Transfer of shares
All transfers of shares which are in certificated 
form may be effected by transfer in writing in 
any usual or common form or in any other form 
acceptable to the directors and may be under 
hand only. The instrument of transfer shall be 
signed by or on behalf of the transferor and 
(except in the case of fully-paid shares) by or on 
behalf of the transferee. The transferor shall 
remain the holder of the shares concerned until 
the name of the transferee is entered in the 
register. All transfers of shares which are in 
uncertificated form may be effected by means 
of the CREST system.
The directors may decline to recognise any 
instrument of transfer relating to shares in 
certificated form unless it:
(a) is in respect of only one class of share; and
(b)  is lodged at the transfer office (duly stamped 
if required) accompanied by the relevant 
share certificate(s) and such other evidence 
as the directors may reasonably require to 
show the right of the transferor to make the 
transfer (and, if the instrument of transfer is 
executed by some other person on his/her 
behalf, the authority of that person so to do).
The directors may, in the case of shares in 
certificated form, in their absolute discretion and 
without assigning any reason therefor, refuse to 
register any transfer of shares (not being fully-
paid shares) provided that, where any such 
shares are admitted to the Official List of the 
London Stock Exchange, such discretion may  
not be exercised in such a way as to prevent 
dealings in the shares of that class from taking 
place on an open and proper basis. The directors 
may also refuse to register an allotment or 
transfer of shares (whether fully paid or not)  
in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment 
or transfer, they shall send within two months 
after the date on which the letter of allotment or 
transfer was lodged with the Company, to the 
allottee or transferee, notice of the refusal.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the 
approval of the Company, or of other 
shareholders of shares in the Company,  
for a transfer of shares to take place. Governance
64 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Directors
Directors shall not be less than ten nor more 
than 18 in number. A director is not required to 
hold any shares of the Company by way of 
qualification. The Company may by ordinary 
resolution increase or reduce the maximum or 
minimum number of directors.
Powers of directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and 
any directions given by special resolution, the 
business of the Company will be managed by 
the Board who may exercise all the powers of 
the Company.
The Board may exercise all the powers of 
the Company to borrow money and to mortgage 
or charge any of its undertaking, property and 
uncalled capital and to issue debentures and 
other securities, whether outright or as 
collateral security for any debt, liability or 
obligation of the Company or of any third party. 
The Company may by ordinary resolution 
declare dividends but no dividend shall be 
payable in excess of the amount recommended 
by the directors. Subject to the provisions of the 
Articles and to the rights attaching to any 
shares, any dividends or other monies payable 
on or in respect of a share may be paid in such 
currency as the directors may determine. The 
directors may deduct from any dividend payable 
to any member all sums of money (if any) 
presently payable by him/her to the Company 
on account of calls or otherwise in relation to 
shares of the Company. The directors may retain 
any dividends payable on shares on which the 
Company has a lien, and may apply the same in 
or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or 
engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
Appointment of directors
The directors may from time to time appoint one 
or more directors. 
The Board may appoint any person to be a 
director (so long as the total number of directors 
does not exceed the limit prescribed in the 
Articles). Any such director shall hold office 
only until the next AGM and shall then be 
eligible for election.
Retirement of directors
At each AGM all those directors who have been 
in office for three years or more since their 
election or last re-election shall retire from 
office. In addition, a director may at any AGM 
retire from office and stand for re-election.
Directors’ report continued
Significant agreements: Change  
of control 
In the event of a takeover (change of control), 
employee share plans would be affected.
Purchases of own shares
At the EGM held on 25 June 2007, authority was 
given for the Company to purchase, in the market, 
up to 134,544,000 Ordinary Shares of 54 
86
/ 91 
US cents each. Details of purchases made 
during the year are set out in Note 29 on  
page 116.
Indemnities
At the date of this report, indemnities are in 
force under which the Company has agreed to 
indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted 
by law and the Company’s Articles in respect of 
all losses arising out of, or in connection with, 
the execution of their powers, duties and 
responsibilities as directors of the Company and 
its associated companies.
By order of the Board
Nicholas Jordan
Company Secretary
19 February 2008  
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 65
Corporate governance
Combined Code compliance
Anglo American is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance – the way in 
which the Company is directed and controlled – 
and complied fully with the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance June 2006 (the Code) 
throughout the year under review.
Role of the Board
The Board of directors is responsible to 
shareholders for the performance of the 
Company. Its role includes the establishment, 
review and monitoring of strategic objectives, 
approval of major acquisitions, disposals and 
capital expenditure and overseeing the Group’s 
systems of internal control, governance and risk 
management. A schedule of matters reserved 
for the Board’s decision details key aspects of 
the Company’s affairs that the Board does not 
delegate (including, among other things, 
approval of business plans and budgets, material 
expenditure and alterations to share capital).
Board composition and directors’ 
independence
The Board is chaired by Sir Mark Moody-Stuart. 
The chairman is responsible for leading the 
Board and for its effectiveness. Cynthia Carroll 
is the chief executive and is responsible for the 
execution of strategy and the day-to-day 
management of the Group, supported by the 
Chief Executive’s Committee (CeCom) and the 
Executive Committee (ExCo), both of which she 
chairs. Sir Rob Margetts will be succeeded as 
the senior independent non-executive director 
by David Challen on 15 April 2008.
The Board has a strong independent 
element and currently comprises, in addition 
to the chairman, two executive and nine  
non-executive directors, seven of whom are 
independent according to the definition 
contained in the Code. The independent 
directors are indicated within the table on this 
page, and full biographical details for each 
director are given on pages 58 and 59. The 
letters of appointment of the non-executive 
directors are available for inspection at the 
registered office of the Company.
The Company is conscious of the need to 
maintain an appropriate mix of skills and 
experience on the Board, and to progressively 
refresh its composition over time. Cynthia 
Carroll was appointed to the Board as an 
executive director on 15 January 2007 and 
succeeded Tony Trahar as chief executive on  
1 March 2007. Tony Trahar retired from the 
Board at the conclusion of the 2007 AGM. 
Simon Thompson, an executive and Ralph 
Alexander, a non-executive director resigned 
from the Board on 13 April and 26 October 
2007 respectively. David Hathorn resigned 
from the Board after the Mondi demerger on  
3 July 2007 and Bobby Godsell has informed the 
Company he wishes to retire at the conclusion 
of the AGM in April 2008. 
The Board has proposed Sir CK Chow for 
election as a director at the AGM. Sir CK’s 
biographical details are set out in the Directors’ 
Report on page 61.
René Médori and Karel van Miert will be 
proposed for re-election at the AGM. René 
Médori is the finance director of Anglo American, 
and serves as a member of CeCom and ExCo as 
well as the Investment Committee and Karel 
van Miert is a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees. Chris Fay and Sir Rob 
Margetts will again be proposed for re-election 
at the AGM. Each has served three three-year 
terms as an independent non-executive director, 
having been first appointed during 1999, and 
hence their nomination for re-election has been 
subject to particularly rigorous review. Chris Fay 
chairs the Safety and Sustainable Development 
Committee and serves as a member of the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees. Sir Rob Margetts 
is the senior independent non-executive 
director, chairs the Remuneration Committee 
and is a member of the Nomination Committee. 
The Board values their wide experience and 
contributions to its proceedings, and is satisfied 
that they both remain remain robustly 
independent.
Since January 2007, three executive 
directors and one non-executive director have 
resigned or retired and one executive director 
has been appointed. The Company considers 
that its programme of progressively refreshing 
the composition of the Board remains effective. 
Directors’ training
Anglo American’s directors have a wide range of 
expertise as well as significant experience in 
strategic, financial, commercial and mining 
activities. Training and briefings are also 
available to all directors on appointment and 
subsequently, as necessary, taking into account 
existing qualifications and experience. Directors 
also have access to management, and to the 
advice of the Company Secretary. Furthermore, 
all directors are entitled to seek independent 
professional advice concerning the affairs of 
Anglo American at its expense, although no 
such advice was sought during 2007. 
Presentations are made to the Board by 
business management on the activities 
 of operations. Directors undertake regular 
visits to operations and projects and, in 2007, 
operations in Australia, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, 
China, Colombia, Oman, South Africa, 
Venezuela and the US were visited. In addition, 
during the year directors attended courses/
seminars on risk management, remuneration, 
corporate responsibility, financial reporting  
and pensions.
Board and Committee meetings – frequency and attendance
Independent
in terms
of Code?
Board
 (seven
meetings)
Audit
 (three
meetings)
S&SD
 (four
meetings)
Remuneration
(four 
meetings)
Nomination
(three
meetings)
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart n/a All n/a All All All 
A J Trahar No 3
(1)
n/a 1
(1)
n/a n/a
C B Carroll No All n/a 2
(1)
n/a n/a
D A Hathorn No 3
(1)
n/a n/a n/a n/a
R Médori No All n/a n/a n/a n/a
S R Thompson No 2
(1)
n/a n/a n/a n/a
R C Alexander Yes 5
(1)
n/a 2
(1)
n/a n/a
D J Challen Yes All All n/a All n/a
C E Fay Yes All All All All n/a
R M Godsell No 6 n/a All n/a n/a
Sir Rob Margetts Yes All n/a n/a All All
K A L M Van Miert Yes All 2 n/a n/a All
N F Oppenheimer No All n/a n/a n/a All
F T M Phaswana Yes All 2 n/a n/a All
M Ramphele Yes 6 n/a 3 n/a All
P Woicke Yes All All 2 n/a All
(1) 
Meetings attended prior to retirement or since appointment. Governance
66 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Board effectiveness
A formal evaluation of the performance of the 
Board, its committees and individual directors is 
carried out annually by means of detailed 
questionnaires and interviews. The results of 
the most recent evaluation were collated and 
analysed by the Company Secretary and 
presented to the Board. The aim is to ensure 
continuous improvement in the functioning of 
the Board. The analysis in respect of 2007 
confirmed that the Board and its committees 
were functioning appropriately. As a result of 
the evaluation, certain changes to committee 
membership are under consideration and 
changes to the Board meeting process and 
timetable have already been implemented.  
As in past years, the evaluation process also 
included a review, chaired by the senior 
independent non-executive director (without 
the chairman present), of the performance of 
the chairman. It is the Board’s current intention 
to engage an external reviewer for the Board 
effectiveness evaluation process from time  
to time. 
Committees of the Board
Subject to those matters reserved for its 
decision, the Board delegates certain 
responsibilities to a number of standing 
committees – the Audit, Remuneration, 
Nomination and Safety & Sustainable 
Development committees. The terms of 
reference for each of these committees are 
published on the Company’s website.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for 
establishing and developing the Group’s general 
policy on executive and senior management 
remuneration and determining specific 
remuneration packages for executive directors.
The directors’ remuneration report, setting 
out Anglo American’s policy on executive 
remuneration, is set out on pages 70 to 82 of 
this Annual Report. A resolution to approve the 
remuneration report will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM.
The Remuneration Committee presently 
comprises: Sir Rob Margetts (chairman),  
David Challen and Chris Fay, all of whom are 
independent non-executive directors, and  
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart. 
Safety & Sustainable Development 
Committee (S&SD)
The S&SD Committee is responsible for 
developing framework policies and guidelines for 
the management of sustainable development 
issues, including safety, health and environment 
matters, and ensuring their progressive 
implementation throughout the Group.
The S&SD Committee normally meets three 
or four times each year, including a visit to an 
operation, and business unit heads are invited 
to attend Committee meetings. Each business 
unit head makes a safety and sustainable 
development presentation to the Committee.  
A separate Report to Society 2007 will be 
published in April. This report focuses on the 
safety, sustainable development, health and 
environmental performance of the Group’s 
managed operations, their performance with 
regard to the Company’s Good Citizenship 
principles and the operational dimensions of 
their social programmes.
The S&SD Committee presently comprises: 
Chris Fay (chairman), Cynthia Carroll, Bobby 
Godsell, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Mamphela 
Ramphele, Tony Redman and Peter Woicke. 
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee makes 
recommendations to the Board on the 
appointment of new executive and non-
executive directors, including making 
recommendations as to the composition of the 
Board and its committees and the balance 
between executive and non-executive directors. 
The Nomination Committee meets as and when 
required and engages external consultants to 
identify appropriate candidates. During 2007, 
the services of Spencer Stuart were used by  
the Committee.
The Board, via the Nomination Committee, 
has taken steps to ensure that the Human 
Resources function of the Group regularly 
reviews and updates the succession plans of 
directors and senior managers.
The Nomination Committee presently 
comprises: Fred Phaswana (chairman),  
Sir Rob Margetts, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart,  
Nicky Oppenheimer, Mamphela Ramphele, 
Karel Van Miert and Peter Woicke. In accordance 
with the provisions of the Combined Code, the 
majority of members and the chairman of the 
Committee are independent non-executive 
directors.
Audit Committee
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to 
ensure the integrity of financial reporting and 
the audit process, and that a sound risk 
management and internal control system is 
maintained. In pursuing these objectives, the 
Audit Committee oversees relations with the 
external auditors and reviews the effectiveness 
of the internal audit function. The Committee 
also monitors developments in corporate 
governance to ensure the Group continues to 
apply high and appropriate standards. 
In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring 
the integrity of financial reports to shareholders, 
the Audit Committee has reviewed accounting 
principles, policies and practices adopted in the 
preparation of public financial information and 
has examined documentation relating to the 
Annual Report, Interim Report, preliminary 
announcements and related public reports. The 
clarity of disclosures included in the financial 
statements was reviewed by the Audit 
Committee, as was the basis for significant 
estimates and judgements. In assessing the 
accounting treatment of major transactions open 
to different approaches, the Committee 
considered written reports by management and 
the external auditors. The Committee’s 
recommendations are submitted to the Board 
for approval.
The chief financial officers of all operations 
have provided confirmation, on a six-monthly 
basis, that financial and accounting control 
frameworks operate satisfactorily. The Committee 
considered summaries of the significant risk and 
control issues arising from these reports. The 
Committee also received regular internal and 
external audit reports on the results of audits at 
various operations. Further information on risk 
management processes is provided in the internal 
control disclosure statement on page 67.
External audit
Anglo American’s policy on auditors’ 
independence, which came into effect on  
1 January 2003, is consistent with the ethical 
standards published by the Auditing Practices 
Board in December 2004.
A key factor that may impair auditors’ 
independence is a lack of control over non-audit 
services provided by the external auditors. In 
essence, the external auditors’ independence is 
deemed to be impaired if the auditors provide a 
service which:
•  results in auditing of own work by the 
auditors;
•  results in the auditors acting as a manager 
or employee of the Group;
•  puts the auditors in the role of advocate for 
the Group; or
•  creates a mutuality of interest between the 
auditors and the Group.
Anglo American addresses this issue through 
three primary measures, namely: 
•  disclosure of the extent and nature of non-
audit services; 
•  the prohibition of selected services; and 
•  prior approval by the Audit Committee 
chairman of non-audit services where the 
Corporate governance continued  
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 67
cost of the proposed assignment is likely to 
exceed $50,000. 
Disclosure entails reporting non-audit services 
to the Group’s audit committees and inclusion of 
prescribed detail, i.e. the breakdown of fees 
paid to external auditors for audit and non-audit 
work in the Annual Reports of listed entities. 
The policy’s definition of prohibited non-audit 
services corresponds with the European 
Commission’s recommendations  
on auditors’ independence.
Other safeguards encapsulated in the  
policy include: 
•  the external auditors are required to adhere 
to a rotation policy based on best practice 
and professional standards in the United 
Kingdom. The standard period for rotation 
of the audit engagement partner is five 
years and, for any key audit principal, seven 
years.
•  any partner designated as a key audit 
principal of Anglo American shall not be 
employed by Anglo American in a key 
management position unless a period of 
at least two years has elapsed since the 
conclusion of the last relevant audit.
•  the external auditors are required to 
periodically assess, in their professional 
judgement, whether they are independent 
from the Group.
•   the Audit Committee ensures that the 
scope of the auditors’ work is sufficient and 
that the auditors are fairly remunerated.
•  the Audit Committee has primary 
responsibility for making recommendations 
to the Board on the appointment, 
reappointment and removal of the external 
auditors.
•  the Audit Committee has the authority to 
engage independent counsel and other 
advisors as they determine necessary in 
order to resolve issues on auditor 
independence.
The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that 
the United Kingdom professional and regulatory 
requirements for audit partner rotation and 
employment of former employees of the 
external auditors have been complied with.
The Audit Committee considered 
information pertaining to the balance between 
fees for audit and non-audit work for the Group 
in 2007 and concluded that the nature and 
extent of non-audit fees do not present a threat 
to the external auditors’ independence. 
Furthermore, after reviewing a report from the 
external auditors on all their relationships with 
Anglo American that might reasonably have a 
bearing on the external auditors’ independence 
and the audit engagement partner and staff’s 
objectivity, and the related safeguards and 
procedures, the Committee has concluded that 
the external auditors’ independence was not 
impaired.
The Audit Committee approved the external 
auditors’ terms of engagement, scope of work, 
the process for the 2007 interim review, the 
annual audit and the applicable levels of 
materiality. Based on written reports submitted, 
the Committee reviewed, with the external 
auditors, the findings of their work and 
confirmed that all significant matters had been 
satisfactorily resolved.
The Committee’s assessment of the 
external auditors’ performance and 
independence underpins its recommendation  
to the Board to propose to shareholders the  
re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as 
auditors until the conclusion of the AGM in 
2009. Resolutions to authorise the Board to  
re-appoint and determine their remuneration 
will be proposed at the AGM on 15 April 2008.
Internal audit
Following an independent review of the 
structure of the internal audit function in 2006 
a central department was created with 
responsibility for reviewing and providing 
assurance on the adequacy of the internal 
control environment across all of Anglo 
American’s operations. The head of internal 
audit is responsible for reporting the findings of 
this internal audit work to the Audit Committee 
on a regular basis. Internal audit teams operated 
in all of the Group’s principal divisions in the 
period under review, reporting findings to local 
senior management. Internal audit function’s 
mandates and annual audit coverage plans were 
approved by the Audit Committee.
The internal audit activities are performed 
either by teams of appropriate, qualified and 
experienced employees, or through the 
engagement of external practitioners upon 
specified and agreed terms. A summary of audit 
results and risk-management information was 
presented to the Committee at regular intervals 
throughout the year. The Group’s head of 
internal audit reports to the Audit Committee  
on the internal audit function’s performance 
against Group standards. 
Assurance regarding the accuracy and 
reliability of mineral resources and ore reserves 
disclosures is provided through a combination of 
internal technically proficient staff and 
independent third parties.
Composition
The Audit Committee presently comprises: 
David Challen (chairman), Chris Fay, Fred 
Phaswana, Karel Van Miert and Peter Woicke,  
all of whom are independent non-executive 
directors. The Board, in consultation with the 
Audit Committee chairman, makes 
appointments to the Committee. The Board has 
determined that the Committee members have 
the skills and experience necessary to 
contribute meaningfully to the Committee’s 
deliberations. In addition, the chairman has 
requisite experience in accounting and financial 
management.
The Committee met three times during 
2007, and on one of those occasions the 
members held discussions with the external 
audit partners and the head of internal audit in 
the absence of management.
Effectiveness of internal control and 
risk management 
The Chief Executive’s Committee, (CeCom) as 
mandated by the Board, has established a 
Group-wide system of internal control to 
manage significant Group risks. This system, 
which has been operating throughout the year 
and to the date of this report, supports the 
Board in discharging its responsibility for 
ensuring that the wide range of risks associated 
with the Group’s diverse international 
operations is effectively managed in support of 
the creation and preservation of shareholder 
wealth. Where appropriate, necessary action 
has been or is being taken to remedy any 
failings or weaknesses identified from review of 
the effectiveness of the internal control system.
Internal control
The system of internal control, which is 
embedded in all key operations, provides 
reasonable rather than absolute assurance that 
the Group’s business objectives will be achieved 
within the risk tolerance levels defined by the 
Board. Regular management reporting, which 
provides a balanced assessment of key risks and 
controls, is an important component of Board 
assurance. In addition, certain Board committees 
focus on specific risks such as safety and capital 
investment and provide assurance to the Board 
on those matters. The chief financial officers 
provide confirmation, on a six-monthly basis, 
that financial and accounting control frameworks 
have operated satisfactorily. The Board also 
receives assurance from the Audit Committee, 
which derives its information, in part, from 
regular internal and external audit reports on risk 
and internal control throughout the Group. The 
Group’s internal audit function has a formal 
collaboration process in place with the external 
auditors to ensure efficient coverage of internal 
controls. The Anglo American internal audit 
function is responsible for providing independent  Governance
68 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
assurance to CeCom and the Board on the 
effectiveness of the risk management process 
throughout the Group. 
Anglo American seeks to have a sound 
system of internal control, based on the Group’s 
policies and guidelines, in all material associates 
and joint ventures. In those companies that are 
independently managed, as well as joint 
ventures, the directors who are represented on 
these organisations’ boards seek assurance that 
significant risks are being managed.
Risk management
The Board’s policy on risk management 
encompasses all significant business risks to 
the Group, including, financial, operational and 
compliance risk, which could undermine the 
achievement of business objectives. This 
system of risk management is designed so that 
the different businesses are able to tailor and 
adapt their risk management processes to suit 
their specific circumstances. This flexible 
approach has the commitment of the Group’s 
senior management. There is clear 
accountability for risk management, which is 
a key performance area of line managers 
throughout the Group. The requisite risk and 
control capability is assured through Board 
challenge and appropriate management 
selection and skills development. Managers 
are supported in giving effect to their risk 
responsibilities through policies and guidelines 
on risk and control management. Continuous 
monitoring of risk and control processes, across 
headline risk areas and other business-specific 
risk areas, provides the basis for regular and 
exception reporting to business management 
and boards, CeCom and the Board. 
Some of the headline risk areas, which have 
been elaborated upon in the financial review, 
set out on pages 55 to 57 are: 
•  commodity price risk;
•  political risk;
•  legal and regulatory risk; 
•  counterparty risk; and
•  infrastructure and operational  
performance risks.
The risk assessment and reporting criteria are 
designed to provide the Board with a consistent, 
Group-wide perspective of the key risks. The 
reports to the Board, which are submitted at 
least every six months, include an assessment 
of the likelihood and impact of risks 
materialising, as well as risk mitigation 
initiatives and their effectiveness.
In conducting its annual review of the 
effectiveness of risk management, the Board 
considers the key findings from the ongoing 
monitoring and reporting processes, 
management assertions and independent 
assurance reports. The Board also takes account 
of material changes and trends in the risk profile 
and considers whether the control system, 
including reporting, adequately supports the 
Board in achieving its risk management 
objectives.
During the course of the year the Board 
considered the Group’s responsiveness to 
changes within its business environment.  
The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing 
process, which has been operational during the 
year, and up to the date of approval of the 
Annual Report, for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks faced by the 
Group. This includes social, environmental and 
ethical risks as highlighted in the Disclosure 
Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment 
issued by the Association of British Insurers. A 
detailed report on social, environmental and 
ethical issues will be included in the Company’s 
Report to Society 2007.
Accountability and audit
The Board is required to present a balanced and 
understandable assessment of Anglo 
American’s financial position and prospects. 
Such assessment is provided in the chairman’s 
and chief executive’s statements set out on 
pages 4 to 9 and the financial review set out  
on pages 15 to 57 of this Annual Report. The 
respective responsibilities of the directors and 
external auditors are set out on pages 84 and 
86. As referred to in the directors’ report on 
page 61, the directors have expressed their 
view that Anglo American’s business is a  
going concern.
Whistleblowing programme
Following adoption in December 2003 of a 
whistleblowing policy that is aligned with the 
Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998, the Group 
has implemented a whistleblowing programme 
in virtually all of the managed operations. The 
programme, which is monitored by the Audit 
Committee, is aimed at enabling employees, 
customers, suppliers, managers or other 
stakeholders, on a confidential basis, to raise 
concerns in cases where conduct is deemed to 
be contrary to our values. It may include:
•  actions that may result in danger to the 
health and / or safety of people or damage 
to the environment;
•  unethical practice in accounting, internal 
accounting controls, financial reporting and 
auditing matters;
•  criminal offences, including money 
laundering, fraud, bribery and corruption;
•  failure to comply with any legal obligation;
• miscarriage of justice;
•  any conduct contrary to the ethical 
principles embraced in our Good 
Citizenship: Our Business Principles or any 
similar policy;
•  any other legal or ethical concern; and
•  concealment of any of the above.
The programme makes available a selection of 
telephonic, e-mail, web-based and surface mail 
communication channels to any person in the 
world who has information about unethical 
practice in Anglo American and its managed 
operations. The multilingual communication 
facilities are operated by independent service 
providers who remove all indications from 
information received as to the identity of the 
callers before submission to designated persons 
in the Group.
During 2007, 230 reports were received via 
the global Speakup facility, covering a broad 
spectrum of concerns, including ethical, 
criminal, supplier relationships, health and 
safety, and human resource-type issues. 
Reports received were kept strictly confidential 
and were referred to appropriate line managers 
within the Group for resolution. Where 
appropriate, action was taken to address the 
issues raised.
Executive management 
Chief Executive’s Committee (CeCom)
CeCom is responsible for implementing the 
strategies and policies determined by the Board, 
managing the business and affairs of the 
Company, prioritising the allocation of capital, 
technical and human resources and establishing 
best management practices. CeCom is also 
responsible for senior management 
appointments and monitoring their performance 
and acts as the risk committee for the purpose 
of reviewing and monitoring Anglo American’s 
systems of internal control.
CeCom presently comprises: Cynthia Carroll 
(chair), René Médori, Russell King and 
Tony Redman.
Executive Committee (ExCo)
ExCo inter alia develops corporate and business 
unit strategy, monitors strategic process in 
terms of key milestones and reviews 
operational and safety procedures of the 
Group’s business units. 
The current members of ExCo are;  
Cynthia Carroll (chair), René Médori, Russell 
King, Tony Redman, Philip Baum, Brian 
Beamish, Norman Mbazima, John Wallington, 
Duncan Wanblad and David Weston.
Corporate governance continued  
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 69
Investment Committee
The role of the Investment Committee, which is 
a sub-committee of CeCom, is to manage the 
process of capital allocation by ensuring that 
investments and divestments increase 
shareholder value and meet Anglo American’s 
financial criteria. The Committee makes 
recommendations to CeCom and/or the Board 
on these matters. The Committee meets  
as required.
The Investment Committee presently 
comprises: René Médori (chairman), Dorian 
Emmett, Tony Redman and Peter Whitcutt.
Relations with shareholders 
The Company maintains an active dialogue with 
its key financial audiences, including 
institutional shareholders and sell-side 
analysts. The Investor and Corporate Affairs 
department manages the ongoing dialogue with 
these audiences and regular presentations take 
place at the time of interim and final results as 
well as during the rest of the year. An active 
programme with potential shareholders is also 
maintained.
Any concerns raised by a shareholder in 
relation to the Company and its affairs are 
communicated to the Board as a whole. The 
Board is briefed on a regular basis by the 
Investor and Corporate Affairs Department and 
analysts’ reports are circulated to the directors.
During the year there have been regular 
presentations and meetings with institutional 
investors in the UK, South Africa, continental 
Europe and the US to communicate the strategy 
and performance of Anglo American. Executive 
directors as well as key corporate officers host 
such presentations and meetings. The 
chairman, senior independent non-executive 
director and other non-executive directors are 
also available to shareholders to discuss any 
matter they wish to raise. The Company’s 
website www.angloamerican.co.uk provides 
the latest and historical financial and other 
information on Anglo American.
Shareholders will have the opportunity 
at the forthcoming AGM, notice of which is 
contained in the booklet enclosed herewith, 
to put questions to the Board, including the 
chairmen of the various committees. Facilities 
have been put in place to enable shareholders 
on the UK register to receive Company 
communications electronically rather than by 
mail and, for those unable to attend the 
meeting, to cast their votes by electronic 
means, including those shareholders whose 
shares are held in the CREST system.
Voting on each resolution to be proposed at 
the AGM will be conducted on a poll rather than 
by a show of hands. The results of the poll will 
be announced to the press and on the 
Company’s website. Governance
70 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Remuneration report
1.  Remuneration Committee
This report sets out the Company’s 
remuneration policy and practice for executive 
and non-executive directors and provides 
details of their remuneration and share interests 
for the year ended 31 December 2007.
1.1  Role of the Remuneration Committee 
and Terms of Reference
The Remuneration Committee (the Committee) 
is responsible for considering and making 
recommendations to the Board on: 
•  the Company’s general policy on executive 
and senior management remuneration;
•  the specific remuneration packages for 
executive directors of the Company, 
including basic salary, performance-based 
short- and long-term incentives, pensions 
and other benefits; and
•  the design and operation of the Company’s 
share incentive schemes.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee 
can be found on the Anglo American website 
www.angloamerican.co.uk and copies are 
available on request. 
The Committee met four times during 2007.
1.2 Membership of the Committee 
The Committee comprised the following  
non-executive directors during the year ended  
31 December 2007: 
• Sir Rob Margetts (chairman);
• David Challen;
• Chris Fay; and
• Sir Mark Moody-Stuart.
The Company’s chief executive attends the 
Committee meetings by invitation and assists 
the Committee in its considerations, except 
when issues relating to her own compensation 
are discussed. No directors are involved in 
deciding their own remuneration. In 2007, the 
Committee was advised by Russell King and 
Chris Corrin (Group Human Resources) and the 
Company’s Finance function. It also took 
external advice as shown in Figure 1.
Certain overseas operations within the 
Group are also provided with audit and  
non-audit related services from PwC’s, Mercer’s 
and Deloitte’s worldwide member firms.
A summary of the letter from Mercer 
containing the conclusions of their review of the 
Committee’s executive remuneration processes 
for 2007 can be found on page 83, while the full 
letter can be found on the Company’s website.
2.  Remuneration policy on executive 
directors’ remuneration
The Company’s remuneration policy is 
formulated to attract and retain high-calibre 
executives and to motivate them to develop and 
implement the Company’s business strategy in 
order to optimise long-term shareholder value 
creation. The policy is framed around the 
following key principles:
•  total rewards will be set at levels that are 
sufficiently competitive to enable the 
recruitment and retention of high-calibre 
executives;
•  total incentive-based rewards will be 
earned through the achievement of 
demanding performance conditions 
consistent with shareholder interests;
•  incentive plans, performance measures and 
targets will be structured to operate 
soundly throughout the business cycle;
•  the design of long-term incentives will be 
prudent and will not expose shareholders to 
unreasonable financial risk;
•  in considering the market positioning of 
reward elements, account will be taken of 
the performance of the Company and of the 
individual executive director; and
•  reward practice will conform to best practice 
standards as far as reasonably practicable. 
Figure 1:
ExTERNAL ADVICE PRo VIDED To THE REMuNERATIo N Co MMITTEE
Advisers Services provided to the Committee Other services provided to the Company
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC)
Appointed by the Company, with the agreement 
of the Committee, to provide specialist valuation 
services
Investment advisers, actuaries and auditors 
for various pension schemes; advisers on 
internal audit projects and the adoption of 
International Financial Reporting Standards; 
taxation, payroll and executive compensation 
advice
Linklaters LLP 
(Linklaters)
Appointed by the Company, with the agreement 
of the Committee, to provide legal advice on 
long-term incentives and directors’ service 
contracts
Legal advice on certain corporate matters 
Mercer Limited  
(Mercer)
Engaged by the Committee to review the 
Committee’s processes on an annual basis, in 
order to provide shareholders with assurance 
that the remuneration processes the Committee 
has followed are in line with the stated policy as 
set out below and that the Committee has 
operated within its Terms of Reference
Investment advisers and actuaries for various 
pension schemes
Towers Perrin Appointed by the Company, with the agreement 
of the Committee, to provide market 
remuneration data
Deloitte & Touche LLP
(Deloitte)
In their capacity as Group auditors, Deloitte 
undertakes an audit of sections 10 and 11 of 
the remuneration report annually. However, 
they provide no advice to the Committee  
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 71
 p
83
Independent remuneration report review
This policy applied for 2007. In 2008, the 
Committee is reviewing the current executive 
remuneration policy and package to ensure that 
it remains aligned with the Company’s strategic 
priorities over the near-term. These priorities, 
which were communicated at the interim results 
presentation on 3 August 2007, are as follows:
•  achieving production, cost and productivity 
improvements;
•  aggressively pursuing identified growth 
opportunities;
•  embedding a stronger performance culture 
and streamlined management model; and
•  ensuring a sharper focus on safety.
Representatives of the Company’s principal 
investors will be consulted on any changes to 
the remuneration policy.
3.  Elements of executive director 
remuneration
3.1 Remuneration mix
Each executive director’s total remuneration 
consists of salary, annual bonus, long-term 
incentives and benefits. An appropriate balance 
is maintained between fixed and performance-
related remuneration and between elements 
linked to short-term financial performance and 
those linked to longer-term shareholder value 
creation.
Assuming on-target performance, the 
Committee’s policy is that at least 50% (60% 
for Cynthia Carroll) of total executive director 
remuneration is performance-related. In 2007, 
70% of the chief executive’s remuneration on 
an expected-value basis was performance-
related; for René Médori, the figure was also 
70% (see illustrative charts).
The Bonus Share Plan (BSP) and the Long 
Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) are designed to align 
the longer-term interests of shareholders and 
executives and to underpin the Company’s 
performance culture. The Committee monitors 
the relevance and appropriateness of the 
performance measures and targets applicable to 
both plans. Further details of the BSP and of the 
LTIP are set out below and on pages 72 and 73.
3.2 Basic salary
The basic salary of each executive director is 
reviewed annually and is targeted at the market 
median of companies of comparable size, 
market sector, business complexity and 
international scope. This is adjusted either way 
based on experience and other relevant factors. 
The market for executives of main board calibre, 
in large international resource companies in 
particular, remains very competitive and it is 
therefore deemed sensible to position basic 
salary for executive directors at no lower than 
the median point. Company performance, 
individual performance and changes in 
responsibilities are also taken into consideration 
in setting salary levels each year.
3.3 Bonus Share Plan (BSP)
The BSP was first operated in 2004 and 
executive directors are normally eligible to 
participate in it.
The BSP requires executive directors to 
invest a significant proportion of their 
remuneration in shares, thereby more closely 
aligning their interests with those of 
shareholders, and encourages management at 
all levels to build up a meaningful personal 
stake in the Company. Awards under the BSP 
are not pensionable, are made annually and 
consist of three elements:
• a performance-related cash element;
•  Bonus Shares as a conditional award, 
currently to a value equal to the cash 
element; and
•  an additional performance-related element 
in the form of Enhancement Shares.
The BSP operates as follows:
•  the value of the bonus is calculated by 
reference to achievement against annual 
performance targets which include 
measures of corporate (and, where 
applicable, business unit) performance as 
well as the achievement of specific 
individual objectives. For executive 
directors, the corporate element is based on 
stretching Earnings Per Share (EPS) targets 
which are calculated using underlying 
earnings (reconciled in note 12 of the 
financial statements). The key individual 
objectives are designed to support the 
Company’s strategic priorities and in 2007 
included safety improvement, strategy 
implementation, production growth, people 
management, succession planning, cost 
reduction and operational efficiencies;
•  the Committee reviews these measures 
annually to ensure they remain appropriate 
and sufficiently stretching in the context of 
the economic and performance 
expectations for the Company and its 
operating businesses;
•  in 2007, 50% of each annual bonus was 
based on the corporate financial measure 
and the remaining 50% on key individual 
performance measures. This split reflects 
the importance of the current strategic 
repositioning of the Group and the volatile 
nature of commodity prices in recent years, 
with the implications of this on setting 
earnings targets. The level of bonuses 
payable is reduced if certain overall safety 
improvement targets are not met. Bonus 
parameters are set on an individual basis;
•  in the case of the directors and top tier of 
management, currently half of the bonus is 
payable in cash. The maximum cash 
element for 2007 was 75% of basic salary 
in the case of both Cynthia Carroll and  
René Médori. The maximum bonus is 
payable only for meeting targets which,  
in the opinion of the Committee, represent 
an exceptional performance for the Group. 
The other part of the bonus is in the form  
of a conditional award of Bonus Shares, 
currently equal in value to the cash element. 
These Bonus Shares vest only if the 
participant remains in employment with the 
Group until the end of a three-year holding 
period (or is regarded by the Committee as  
a ‘good leaver’); and
see also
p
77
Bonus Share Plan Governance
72 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
 Remuneration report continued
•  in order to encourage continuing focus on 
medium-term performance, executive 
directors also receive a conditional award  
of Enhancement Shares at the same time  
as the award of Bonus Shares. The 
maximum potential, at face value, of the 
Enhancement Shares is 75% of the face 
value of the Bonus Shares (i.e. in 2007 a 
maximum of 56% of basic salary). Awards 
of Enhancement Shares made in 2007 will 
vest after three years only to the extent 
that a challenging performance condition 
(real EPS growth, based on earnings per 
share growth against growth in the UK 
Retail Price Index (RPI)) is met (see 
illustrative chart). There is no retesting of 
this performance condition.
Real EPS growth is viewed as the most 
appropriate performance measure for this 
element of the BSP because it is a fundamental 
financial performance indicator, both internally 
and externally, and links directly to the 
Company’s long-term objective of improving 
earnings. The targets have been approved by 
the Committee after reviewing performance 
over a number of years and have been set at 
a level which provides stretching performance 
levels for management. At the end of each 
performance period, the level of performance 
achieved and the proportion of awards vesting 
will be published in the subsequent 
remuneration report.
3.4  Share options and all-employee  
share schemes
No share options have been granted to 
executive directors under the Company’s 
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) since 
2003 and there is currently no intention to make 
future grants under the ESOS to executive 
directors. However, the ESOS is retained for use 
in special circumstances relating to the 
recruitment or retention of key executives in 
countries where share options are the normal 
means of long-term incentivisation. As the 
current ESOS will expire in early 2009, the 
Anglo American Discretionary Option Plan  
will be proposed to shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) in April 2008.
Executive directors remain eligible to 
participate in the Company’s Save As You Earn 
(SAYE) and Share Incentive Plan (SIP) schemes. 
As these schemes are offered to all UK-based 
employees, performance conditions do not 
apply to them. At the AGM in April 2008 
shareholders will be asked to approve a new 
SAYE scheme to replace the existing SAYE 
scheme, which expires in early 2009.
3.5 Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
Grant levels
Conditional LTIP awards are made annually to 
executive directors. The maximum grant level 
under the LTIP is currently 200% of basic salary 
and it is anticipated that, in 2008, grants under 
the LTIP will be made at 200% of basic salary  
for the executive directors, including the chief 
executive. The Committee is content that the 
performance conditions that need to be satisfied 
for these awards to vest in full are sufficiently 
stretching in the context of the award levels.  
In determining annual award levels, the 
Committee also gives consideration to market 
competitiveness and has set the levels taking 
account of median expected value of long-term 
incentives relative to other companies of a similar 
size. These awards are discretionary and are 
considered on a case-by-case basis.
Performance measures
As in previous years, vesting of the LTIP awards 
made during 2007 is subject to the achievement, 
over a fixed three-year period, of stretching 
Group performance targets relating to Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) and to an operating 
measure, currently return on capital employed 
(ROCE).
Half of each award is subject to a Group TSR 
measure, while the other half is subject to a 
Group ROCE measure. These performance 
measures were selected on the basis that they 
clearly foster the creation of shareholder value 
and their appropriateness is kept under review by 
the Committee. At the end of each performance 
period, the level of ROCE performance achieved 
and the level of award earned will be published in 
the subsequent remuneration report. There is no 
retesting of performance.
The LTIP closely aligns the interests of 
shareholders and executive directors by 
rewarding superior shareholder return and 
financial performance and by encouraging 
executives to build up a shareholding in  
the Company.
Total shareholder return (TSR)
The Committee considers comparative TSR to 
be a suitable long-term performance measure 
for the Company’s LTIP awards. Executives 
would benefit under this measure only if 
shareholders have enjoyed returns on their 
investment which are superior to those that 
could have been obtained in other comparable 
companies.
The portion of each award that is based on 
TSR is measured 50% against the Sector Index 
and 50% against the constituents of the  
Figure 2:
LTIP – SECTo R INDEx
Mining Industrial Minerals
Category weighting 94% 6%
Comparator companies BHP Billiton plc
Rio Tinto plc
Teck Cominco
Vale
Vedanta Resources plc
Xstrata plc
CRH plc
Holcim Limited
Lafarge
Hanson plc
Figure 3:
LTIP – SECTo R INDEx Co MPARISo N
The Company’s relative TSR compared with the Sector Index % Proportion of total TSR element vesting
Below Target 0
Target (matching the weighted median of the Sector Index) 20
Target plus 5% per annum 50
Target plus 7.5% per annum (or above) 75  
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 73
Figure 4:
LTIP – FTSE 100 Co MPARISo N
The Company’s relative TSR compared with the FTSE 100 % Proportion of total TSR element vesting
Below the median TSR of the FTSE 100 0
Equal to the median TSR of the FTSE 100 20
Equal to the 90th percentile TSR of the FTSE 100 50
Above the 90th percentile TSR of the FTSE 100 75
FTSE 100. Maximum vesting on the TSR element 
of an award will only be possible if the Company 
outperforms by a substantial margin both the 
sector benchmark (as described below) and the 
largest UK companies across all sectors. 
Maximum vesting of the whole LTIP award, 
would, in addition, depend on the Company’s 
performance exceeding demanding ROCE targets 
(also as described below). Taken as a whole, 
vesting depends on a very challenging set of 
performance hurdles.
Sector Index comparison
One half of the TSR element of an LTIP award 
vests according to the Company’s TSR over the 
performance period relative to a weighted 
basket of international natural resource 
companies (the Sector Index). The Committee 
may amend the list of comparator companies in 
the Sector Index, and relative weightings, if 
circumstances make this necessary (for 
example, as a result of takeovers or mergers of 
comparator companies or significant changes in 
the composition of the Group, such as the 
future sale of Tarmac). In calculating TSR it is 
assumed that all dividends are reinvested.
For awards made in 2007, the companies 
constituting the Sector Index are shown in 
Figure 2.
Target performance for the Sector Index  
is assessed by calculating the median TSR 
performance within each sub-sector category, 
and then weighting these medians by the 
category weightings shown. That part  
of any award that is contingent upon the  
Sector Index element of the TSR performance 
Figure 5:
LTIP – Ro CE TARGETS
Existing capital employed Incremental capital employed
Minimum ROCE Target 37.47% 10%
Maximum ROCE Target 39.47% 10%
Figure 6:
LTIP – RoC E VESTING
Proportion of ROCE element vesting
Below or equal to the Minimum Target 0%
Equal to or greater than the Maximum Target 100%
will vest as shown in Figure 3 (on a straight-line 
basis for performance between the levels shown).
FTSE 100 comparison
The vesting of the other half of the TSR 
element of an LTIP award will depend on  
the Company’s TSR performance over the 
performance period compared with the 
constituents of the FTSE 100 Index, as 
outlined in Figure 4 (on a straight-line basis  
for performance between the levels shown).
The targets above were calibrated such that 
for the TSR element of the award there is 
approximately a 10% chance of achieving full 
vesting and a 25% chance of two-thirds vesting. 
These probabilities were assessed by PwC using 
the same Monte Carlo model used for calculating 
fair values of the LTIP under IFRS 2 (Share-based 
Payments). The estimated average fair value of 
an award under the TSR element is 48% of the 
value of shares awarded.
Graphs of the Company’s TSR performance 
against the weighted average of the Sector Index 
and against the FTSE 100 for the five years from 
1 January 2003 to 31 December 2007 are shown 
in Figure 9 on page 75.
Return on capital employed
Group ROCE is the second performance 
measure for LTIP grants. The Committee 
considers this to be among the most important 
factors which drive sustainable improvements 
in shareholder value in a natural resource 
business, as well as one of the most important 
measures of differentiation in performance in 
this sector.
The proportion of shares vesting based on 
Group ROCE will vary according to the degree of 
improvement in the Group’s average annualised 
ROCE over the performance period. Unless 
certain minimum targets for improvement in 
returns (on both capital employed for the 
financial year preceding the start of the 
performance period (existing capital employed) 
and on the additional capital employed during 
the performance period (incremental capital 
employed)) are met, no shares will vest under 
this performance measure. The maximum ROCE 
targets are based on stretching levels of return 
on the existing capital employed.
The ROCE targets for each element 
conditionally awarded in 2007 are shown in 
Figure 5. To ensure that the targets do act as an 
effective incentive, they are adjusted for factors 
outside management’s control such as 
movements in commodity prices, certain foreign 
exchange rate effects, capital in progress, and for 
relevant changes in the composition of the Group.
Vesting of the ROCE elements is as shown 
in Figure 6. Shares will vest on a straight-line 
basis for performance between the Minimum 
Target and the Maximum Target.
3.6  Vesting of share incentives in the 
event of change of control or 
termination of employment
In the event of a change of control of the 
Company, the following provisions apply under 
the Company’s incentive plans:
•  share options granted under the former 
ESOS may be exercised irrespective of 
whether the applicable performance 
conditions have been met;
•  the number of shares that vest under the 
LTIP will be calculated by reference to the 
extent to which the applicable performance 
conditions have been met at the time of the 
change of control;
•  Bonus Shares awarded under the BSP will 
be released, but Enhancement Shares 
awarded under the BSP will vest only to the 
extent that the performance condition has 
been met at the time of the change of 
control;
•  SAYE options may be exercised (to the extent 
of savings at the date of exercise); and
•  participants may direct the SIP trustee as to 
how to deal with their SIP shares (although 
Matching Shares may be forfeited in some 
circumstances).
In the event that a director’s employment is 
terminated, vesting of outstanding share 
options under the former ESOS is dependent 
upon the reasons the contract is terminated. 
Performance conditions fall away in the event of 
p
78
Long Term Incentive Plan
see also
p
75
TSR performance Governance
74 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Remuneration report continued
redundancy. However, if a director resigns 
voluntarily, then all such options lapse unless 
the Committee determines otherwise.
In the case of LTIP interests, if a director 
resigns voluntarily, then his/her interests lapse. 
If he/she is made redundant, vesting at the end 
of the performance period is based on the 
normal performance criteria and then pro rated 
for the proportion of the performance period for 
which the director served. 
In the case of the BSP, if a director ceases 
to be employed before the end of the year in 
respect of which the annual performance 
targets apply, then no award will be made 
unless the Committee determines otherwise 
(taking into account the proportion of the year 
for which the director was an employee of the 
Group and of performance to date against the 
annual performance targets at the date of 
cessation). If a director resigns voluntarily 
before the end of the three-year vesting period, 
the Bonus Share awards lapse and the 
Enhancement Shares are forgone. If a director is 
made redundant, Bonus Shares already awarded 
will be transferred as soon as practicable after 
the date of leaving and Enhancement Shares 
will vest at the end of the performance period 
(to the extent that the performance conditions 
have been met). 
3.7  Employee Share o wnership Trust  
and policy on provision of shares for 
incentive schemes
The Group established an Employee Share 
Ownership Trust (the Trust) in 1999 to acquire 
and hold shares to facilitate the operation of the 
Company’s share schemes. As at 31 December 
2007, the Trust held 9,693,835 ordinary shares 
in the Company, registered in the name of 
Greenwood Nominees Limited. Shares held by 
the Trust are not voted at the Company’s 
general meetings. It is the Company’s current 
policy and practice not to use newly issued 
shares to meet the requirements of share 
incentives. Such shares are currently provided 
from the Trust or by market purchase. However, 
shareholders will be asked at the AGM in April 
2008 to approve the use of newly issued shares 
or treasury shares in the future in connnection 
with the SIP to give the Company greater 
flexibility in this regard.
3.8 Pensions
Details of individual pension arrangements are 
set out on pages 78, 79 and 82. Since the 
inception of the new UK pensions regime on 6 
April 2006, the Committee has been prepared 
to consider requests from executive directors 
that their contracts be altered for future service, 
so that further pension benefits are reduced or 
cease to accrue and that a pension allowance be 
paid having the same cost as the defined 
contribution benefits forgone.
Similarly, the Committee is prepared to 
consider requests from executive directors  
(as is the case for employees more generally) 
that their contracts be altered for future service, 
so that supplementary pension contributions 
are made into their defined contribution pension 
arrangements, in return for equivalent cost 
reductions in their future basic salary and/or 
in the cash element of the BSP.
3.9 o ther benefits
Executive directors are entitled to the provision of 
a car allowance, medical insurance, death and 
disability insurance, social club membership (in 
accordance with local market practice), limited 
personal taxation/financial advice and 
reimbursement of reasonable business expenses. 
The provision of these benefits is considered to be 
market-competitive in the appropriate locality for 
executive director positions.
4. Executive shareholding targets
Within five years of their appointment, 
executive directors are expected to acquire a 
holding of shares with a value of two times’ 
basic salary in the case of the chief executive 
and one times’ basic salary in the case of other 
executive directors.
The Committee takes into consideration 
achievement against these targets when 
making grants under the Company’s various 
long-term incentive plans.
5. External appointments
Executive directors are not permitted to hold 
external directorships or offices without the 
prior approval of the Board; if approved, they  
may each retain the fees payable from one  
such appointment. During the year ended  
31 December 2007, Cynthia Carroll and  
René Médori each retained fees from such 
appointments, amounting to £108,000  
and £57,000 respectively.
6.  Policy on non-executive directors’ 
remuneration
Non-executive directors’ remuneration is approved 
by the Board as a whole on the recommendation 
of the chairman and executive directors.
The Company’s policy on non-executive 
directors’ remuneration is based on the 
following key principles:
•  Remuneration should be: 
–  sufficient to attract and retain world-class 
non-executive talent; 
–  consistent with recognised best practice 
standards for non-executive directors’ 
remuneration;
–  in the form of cash fees, but with the 
flexibility to forgo all or part of such fees 
(after deduction of applicable income tax 
and social security contributions) to 
acquire shares in the Company if the non-
executive director so wishes; and 
–   set by reference to the responsibilities 
taken on by the non-executives in chairing 
the Board and its committees. 
•  Non-executive directors may not participate 
in the Company’s share incentive schemes 
or pension arrangements.
It is the intention that this policy will continue to 
apply for 2008 and subsequent years, subject 
to ongoing review as appropriate.
The Board reviews non-executive directors’  
fees periodically to ensure they remain market-
competitive. Additional fees are paid to the 
chairmen of Board committees and to the senior 
independent director (SID). If non-executive 
directors were to acquire executive board roles 
within subsidiaries of the Company, then they 
might also receive additional remuneration from 
the relevant subsidiaries on account of these 
increased responsibilities. 
7. Chairman’s fees
The chairman’s fees are reviewed periodically 
(on a different cycle from the review of non-
executive directors’ fees). A recommendation is 
made to the Board (in the absence of the 
chairman) by the Committee and chief 
executive, which takes external advice on 
market comparators.
8. Directors’ service contracts
Cynthia Carroll is employed by Anglo American 
Services (UK) Limited (AAS). René Médori was 
employed by Anglo American International 
(IOM) Limited (AAI(IOM)) until 31 December 
2007 and by AAS thereafter (the terms of his 
employment by AAS are similar to those 
applicable to his contract with AAI(IOM) and 
the change of employer was made for 
administrative simplicity). Tony Trahar and 
David Hathorn were employed by both 
AAI(IOM) and by Anglo Operations Limited 
until they left service. Simon Thompson was 
employed by AAS until he left service. 
It is the Company’s policy that the period of 
notice for executive directors will not exceed  
12 months and that the employment contracts 
of the executive directors are terminable at  
12 months’ notice by either party. In accordance 
with her terms upon joining, Cynthia Carroll 
was, up to 31 December 2007, entitled to  
24 months’ notice in the event of termination of 
her employment by the Company, although her   
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 75
 Figure 7:
ExECuTIVE DIRECTo RS
(1)
Date of 
appointment
Next AGM re-election  
or election
Cynthia Carroll (chief executive from  
1 March 2007)
15 January 2007 April 2010
Tony Trahar (chief executive to 1 March 2007; 
ceased to be a director 17 April 2007)
(2)
18 March 1999 n/a
David Hathorn (ceased to be a director 3 July 2007) 20 April 2005 n/a
René Médori (finance director) 01 June 2005 April 2008
Simon Thompson (ceased to be a director 13 April 2007)
(2)
20 April 2005 n/a
(1) 
 At each Annual General Meeting (AGM) all those directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election or last  
re-election shall retire from office. Details of any retiring by rotation this year are contained in the Notice of AGM. 
(2) 
 Tony Trahar and Simon Thompson left service on 30 June 2007 and 31 May 2007 respectively.
Figure 8:
No N-ExECuTIVE DIRECTo RS
(1)(2)
Date of 
appointment
Next AGM re-election  
or election
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart (chairman) 16 July 2002 April 2009 
Ralph Alexander (resigned 26 October 2007) 20 April 2005 n/a
David Challen (chairman, Audit Committee) 09 September 2002 April 2009 
Chris Fay (chairman, S&SD Committee)
(3)
19 April 1999 April 2008
Bobby Godsell (retires on 15 April 2008) 18 March 1999 n/a
Sir Rob Margetts (SID and chairman, Remuneration 
Committee)
(3)
18 March 1999 April 2008
Nicky Oppenheimer 18 March 1999 April 2010
Fred Phaswana (chairman, Nomination Committee) 12 June 2002 April 2009
Mamphela Ramphele 25 April 2006 April 2009
Karel Van Miert 19 March 2002 April 2008
Peter Woicke 01 January 2006 April 2009
(1)
 
 
At each AGM all those non-executive directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election or last re-election 
shall retire from office. Details of those retiring by rotation this year are contained in the Notice of AGM.
(2)
  There is no fixed notice period; however, the Company may, in accordance with, and subject to the provisions of, the Companies Act,  
by Ordinary Resolution of which special notice has been given, remove any director from office. The Company’s Articles of Association 
also permit the directors, under certain circumstances, to remove a director from office.
(3)
  In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, independent non-executive directors who have served longer than nine  
years are subject to annual re-election and, accordingly, Chris Fay and Sir Rob Margetts are being proposed for re-election at the  
AGM in April 2008.
contract thereafter became terminable at  
12 months’ notice by either party. 
The contracts of executive directors do not 
provide for any enhanced payments in the event 
of a change of control of the Company, nor for 
liquidated damages.
All non-executive directors have letters  
of appointment with the Company for an  
initial period of three years from their date  
of appointment, subject to reappointment  
at the AGM. 
9.  Historical comparative TSR 
performance graphs
The graphs shown in Figure 9 represent the 
comparative TSR performance of the Company 
from 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2007.  
In drawing up these graphs it has been assumed 
that all dividends paid have been reinvested.
The first graph shows the Company’s 
performance against the performance of the  
FTSE 100 Index, chosen as being a broad equity 
market index comprising companies of a 
comparable size and complexity to Anglo 
American. This graph has been produced in 
accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A 
to the Companies Act 1985.
The second graph shows the Company’s 
performance against the weighted Sector Index 
comparator group used to measure company 
performance for the purposes of the vesting of 
LTIP interests conditionally awarded in 2005. 
This graph gives an indication of how the 
Company is performing against the targets in 
place for LTIP interests already granted, 
although the specifics of the comparator 
companies for each year’s interests may vary  
to reflect changes such as mergers and 
acquisitions amongst the Company’s competitors 
or changes to the Company’s business mix.  
TSR is calculated in US dollars, and the TSR  
level shown as at 31 December each year  
is the average of the closing daily TSR levels  
for the five day period up to and including  
that date.
10.  Remuneration outcomes 
during 2007
The information set out in this section and 
section 11 has been subject to audit.
10.1 Directors’ emoluments 
Executive directors
Figure 10 sets out an analysis of the pre-tax 
remuneration during the years ended  
31 December 2007 and 2006, including 
bonuses but excluding pensions, for executive 
directors who held office in the Company during 
the year ended 31 December 2007. 
see also
p
78
Pension arrangements
Non-executive directors
The fees and other emoluments paid to  
non-executive directors during the year ended  
31 December 2007 amounted to £1,237,000 
(2006: £1,807,000) and are shown in Figure 11.
10.2 Bonus Share Plan
Details of shares awarded under the BSP to 
executive directors during 2007 and their 
current holdings are shown in Figure 12. Governance
76 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Remuneration report continued
Figure 11:
No N-ExECuTIVE DIRECTo RS’ EMo LuMENTS
(1)(2)
 Fees Other emoluments Total
 2007  
£000
2006 
£000
2007  
£000
2006 
£000
2007  
£000
2006 
£000
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart
(3)
450 360 – – 450 360
Ralph Alexander (resigned 26 October 2007) 54 65 – – 54 65
David Challen 80 80 – – 80 80
Chris Fay 80 80 – – 80 80
Bobby Godsell
(4)(5)
71 70 – 698 71 768
Sir Rob Margetts 93 93 – – 93 93
Nicky Oppenheimer
(4)
71 70 – – 71 70
Fred Phaswana
(4)
143 95 – – 143 95
Mamphela Ramphele 65 45 – – 65 45
Karel Van Miert 65 65 – – 65 65
Peter Woicke 65 65 – – 65 65
(1)
  Each non-executive director, with the exception of Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, is paid a fee of £65,000 (2006: £65,000) per annum, and those non-executive directors who act as chairmen of the Audit, Safety & 
Sustainable Development and Remuneration Committees are paid an additional sum of £15,000 (2006: £15,000) per annum. The chairman of the Nomination Committee is paid an additional sum of £7,500 
(2006: £7,500) per annum. Sir Rob Margetts received additional fees of £13,000 (2006: £13,000) in his capacity as senior independent director.
(2)
  In addition to the fees reported above for 2006, Maria Silvia Bastos Marques, who resigned on 20 April 2006, received fees of £21,000.
(3)
  Sir Mark Moody-Stuart’s fees were reviewed in January 2007, having been last reviewed as at January 2005. His fees for 2007 were adjusted after taking into account the median fees paid to chairmen of  
FTSE-20 companies.
(4)
  Bobby Godsell and Nicky Oppenheimer received fees for their services as non-executive directors of Anglo American South Africa Limited amounting to £6,000 (2006: £5,000) and £6,000 (2006: £5,000) 
respectively, which are included in the above table. Fred Phaswana is the non-executive chairman of Anglo American South Africa Limited and of Anglo Platinum and received fees for these services amounting 
to £71,000 (2006: £22,000), which are included in the above table.
(5)
  Bobby Godsell’s fees for 2006 include fees and emoluments under his service contract with AngloGold Ashanti, which was a subsidiary of the Company until 20 April 2006. As AngloGold Ashanti is no longer a 
subsidiary, no such emoluments have been reported for 2007.
Figure 10:
ExECuTIVE DIRECTo RS’ EMo LuMENTS
(1)
Basic salary 
 as paid
Plus: Basic  
salary sacrificed  
into Pension 
Scheme
(2)
Total  
basic salary
Annual 
performance 
bonus
 – cash element
(2)(3)
Benefits
  
in kind
(4)
 Other Total
2007
£000
2006
£000
2007
£000
2006
£000
2007
£000
2006
£000
2007
£000
2006
£000
2007
£000
2006
£000
2007
£000
2006
£000
2007
£000
2006
£000
Cynthia Carroll
(5)
900 –  – – 900 – 641 – 426 – 700 –
 
2,667 –
Tony Trahar
(6)
* 333 786 200 239 533 1,025 857 830 51 56 1,300 56 2,741 1,967 
David Hathorn* 290 520 – – 290 520 435 277 14 24 61 26 800 847 
René Médori 565 485 45 75 610 560  407 370 28 25 – – 1,045 955 
Simon Thompson
(7)
* 238 495  4  25 242 520 224 316 12 25 530 9 1,008 870 
 * Up to the date of leaving service.
(1)
  Subsequent to his retirement from the Board in 2004, Bill Nairn has provided consultancy services to Anglo American, receiving £38,000 (2006: £120,000) for the provision of these services during the year. 
He also held non-executive directorships with certain listed subsidiaries of the Group and received fees of £15,000 for the provision of these services during the year.
(2)
  Their employing companies contractually agreed with the executive directors (other than Cynthia Carroll and David Hathorn) that supplementary pension contributions be made into their pension arrangements 
in return for equivalent-cost reductions in their basic salaries and/or in the cash elements payable under the BSP. 
(3)
  The annual bonus amounts in respect of Tony Trahar, David Hathorn and Simon Thompson include the release of the share element of the BSP paid in cash as well as the cash element, in view of the executives’ 
departure from the Company.
(4)
  Each executive director receives a car allowance and a limited amount of personal taxation/financial advice. Executive directors also receive death and disability benefits as well as medical insurance. Tony Trahar 
and Simon Thompson also received club membership.
(5)
  Cynthia Carroll was, in accordance with her terms upon joining, entitled to be reimbursed by the Company certain expenses incurred as a result of her recruitment and relocation to the United Kingdom. Accordingly, 
the Company has incurred expenses in 2007 amounting in the aggregate to £402,000, which are included in the above table. This includes the cost of temporary accommodation, physical removal costs and the 
provision of specialist relocation services. The Company has agreed to reimburse Cynthia Carroll for the additional income tax payable in due course on such expenses. Cynthia Carroll’s other emoluments include a 
relocation allowance and compensation made in respect of incentives forgone at her previous employer (as reported in the 2006 Annual Report).
(6)
  Tony Trahar’s other emoluments include the pro-rated value of the 2006 BSP and 2007 LTIP which was paid out in cash upon his retirement from the Company. Subsequent to his retirement from the Board in 
2007, the Committee agreed that Tony Trahar could purchase a residential property from the Group, on the basis that the property be valued by three independent specialist valuers and that the selling price 
would be the average of the two highest valuations. The property was subsequently valued on this basis and was sold to Tony Trahar for £6,930,000, which was paid on completion. The Committee also agreed 
that certain contents of the property could be sold to Tony Trahar at their market value as assessed by an independent valuer and such contents were subsequently sold to Tony Trahar for £61,800.
(7)
  Subsequent to his leaving service, Simon Thompson received £899,000, comprising payments in lieu of notice for salary and benefits, including a pro-rated bonus (all included in the above table) and pension 
contributions amounting to £152,000 as reported separately in Figure 16.  
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 77
Figure 12: 
Bo NuS SHARE PLAN INTERESTS
(1)
Total 
interest at 
1 January 
2007
Number 
of Bonus 
Shares 
condition-
ally 
awarded 
during 
2007
Number 
of 
Bonus 
Shares 
lapsed 
during 
2007
(2)
Number 
of 
Enhance-
ment 
Shares 
condition-
ally 
awarded 
during 
2007
Number of 
Bonus shares 
vested 
during 2007
Number of 
Enhance-
ment 
shares 
vested 
during 
2007
Number of 
Enhance-
ment 
shares 
lapsed 
during 
2007
Total 
interest at 
31 
December 
2007
Market 
price at 
date of 
2007 
award 
£
Date of 
vesting of 
Bonus Shares 
awarded 
during 2007
End date of 
performance 
period for 
Enhancement 
Shares 
awarded 
during 2007
Cynthia Carroll
(3)
– – – – – – – – – – –
Tony Trahar
(4)
218,688 – – – (124,965) (37 , 1 78) – 56,545 – – –
David Hathorn
(5)
57 ,464 – – – (32,837) (20, 125) (4,502) – – – –
René Médori
(6)
15,266 1 7 , 187 (2,333) 12,889 – – – 43,009 24.73 01/01/2010 31/1 2/2009
Simon Thompson
(7)
72,390 14,689 – 1 1,016 (56,055) (9,642) – 32,398 24.73 – 31/1 2/2009
(1)
  The performance period applicable to each award is three years. The performance period relating to the 2004 BSP awards (which were granted on 28 May 2004) ended on 31 December 2006. The release of 
Bonus Shares was subject to continued employment to this date and the vesting of Enhancement Shares was subject to both continued employment and a performance condition based on the Company’s EPS 
growth over the performance period.
Shares vested (2004 BSP award)
Number of 
shares 
vested
Date of 
award
Market 
price at 
date of 
award
£
Market price at 
date of vesting
£
Money value at 
date of vesting
£
Tony Trahar 86,748 28/5/2004 11.36 24.62 2,135,736
David Hathorn 17,913 28/5/2004 11.36 24.62 441,018
Simon Thompson 22,498 28/5/2004 11.36 24.62 553,901
  In the case of the BSP awards granted in 2004, the determinant for the vesting of Enhancement Shares was real EPS growth, based on earnings per share growth against growth in the UK Retail Price Index (RPI) 
over the performance period. 44% of the Enhancement Shares would vest if EPS growth was RPI + 9%, and 100% would vest if EPS growth was RPI + 15%. As the EPS growth achieved was RPI + 147% over the 
period, full vesting of the Enhancement Shares occurred.
(2)
  Where permitted by Finance legislation, awards of Bonus Shares under the BSP are granted as forfeitable shares, which would be forfeited in the event that an executive director leaves service before the shares 
are released. As a result of the share consolidation following the demerger of Mondi, a portion of any forfeitable Bonus Shares lapsed as indicated above (details of the share consolidation were disclosed in the 
demerger prospectus).
(3)
  Cynthia Carroll was, in accordance with her terms upon joining, granted 132,718 forfeitable shares in compensation for long-term incentives forgone at her previous employer. The market price of the shares at 
the date of this award was £24.91. These shares are forfeitable in the event that she leaves service before they are released to her. As a result of the share consolidation following the demerger of Mondi, 
11,945 of these shares lapsed and the remaining forfeitable award amounted to 120,773 shares, of which 72,464 are due to be released to her in 2008, 24,155 will be released in 2009 and 24,154 will be 
released in 2010, subject to her continued employment. These awards are as follows:
Interests
Beneficial interest in 
forfeitable shares at date of 
appointment
Number of forfeitable 
shares awarded upon 
appointment
Number of forfeitable shares 
vested during the year
Number of forfeitable shares 
lapsed during the year
Total beneficial interest in 
forfeitable shares at 31 
December 2007
Latest 
performance 
period end date
Cynthia Carroll – 132,718 – (11,945) 120,773 –
(4)
  Following his retirement on 30 June 2007, Tony Trahar’s entitlement to 75,395 Bonus Shares under the BSP was released to him and the shares were subsequently sold. The value of the entitlement was 
£2,281,517. Tony Trahar’s unvested awards of Enhancement Shares under the BSP remain subject to performance conditions which will be assessed at the end of each relevant performance period.
(5)
  Following the demerger of Mondi, David Hathorn’s entitlement to 22,601 Bonus Shares under the BSP was released to him and a proportion of his Enhancement Shares vested (12,448) and the remainder lapsed. 
The value of the entitlement was £1,112,806. David Hathorn has no remaining entitlement under the BSP.
(6)
  In addition to the BSP award disclosed above, René Médori, in accordance with his terms upon joining, was granted 50,600 forfeitable shares, in compensation for long-term incentives forgone at his previous 
employer. The market price of the shares at the date of this award was £13.34. Of these shares, 30,360 were released to him in May 2006 and 20,240 were released to him in May 2007. 
Interests
Beneficial 
interest in 
forfeitable 
shares at 1 
January 2007
Number of 
forfeit-
able 
shares 
vested 
during 
2007
Total beneficial 
interest in 
forfeitable 
shares at 31 
December 2007
Latest 
performance 
period end date
René Médori 20,240 (20,240) – –
Shares vested
Number of 
shares 
vested
Date of 
conditional 
award
Market 
price at 
date of 
award 
£
Market price at 
date of vesting 
£
Money value at 
date of vesting 
£
René Médori 20,240 2/6/2005 13.34 26.46 535,550
(7)
  Following his leaving service on 31 May 2007, Simon Thompson’s entitlement to 43,199 Bonus Shares under the BSP was released to him and the shares were subsequently sold. The value of the entitlement 
was £1,330,097. Simon Thompson’s unvested awards of Enhancement Shares under the BSP remain subject to performance conditions which will be assessed at the end of each relevant performance period. Governance
78 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Remuneration report continued
Figure 13:
Lo NG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
LTIP interests
(1)(2)
Total beneficial 
interest in LTIP at 
1 January 2007
Number of shares 
conditionally 
awarded during 
2007
Number  
of shares  
vested  
during 2007
Number  
of shares lapsed  
during 2007
Total beneficial 
interest in LTIP at 
31 December 2007
Latest performance 
period  
end date
Cynthia Carroll – 73,538 – – 73,538 31/12/2009
Tony Trahar 331,675 – (55,763) (55,762) 220,150 31/12/2008
David Hathorn
(3)
126,560 3,733 (95,554) (34,739) – –
René Médori 115,414 49,842 – – 165,256 31/12/2009
Simon Thompson 150,959 – (21,614) (21,613) 107,732 31/12/2008
(1)
  The LTIP awards made in 2007 are conditional on two performance conditions as outlined on pages 72 and 73: the first is based on the Company’s TSR relative to a weighted group of international natural 
resource companies and to the constituents of the FTSE 100, and the second is based on an underlying operating measure which focuses on raising the Company’s ROCE in the medium term. Further details on 
the structure of the LTIP, the required level of performance for the 2007 award and how performance against targets is measured can be found on pages 72 and 73. The market price of the shares at the date of 
award was £24.63.
(2)
  The performance period applicable to each award is three years. The performance period relating to the two LTIP awards in 2004 (which were granted on 25 March 2004 and 26 April 2004) ended on  
31 December 2006. Vesting was subject to two performance conditions: the first based on the Company’s TSR relative to a weighted group of international natural resource companies and the second based on 
an underlying operating measure which focused on improvements in the Company’s ROCE in the medium term. Part of each award was based on the TSR measure and part on the operating measure.
Shares vested
Number of shares 
vested
Dates of conditional 
award
Market price at date of 
award £
Market price at date of 
vesting £
Money value at date of 
vesting £
Tony Trahar 41,557 
14,206
25/3/2004
26/4/2004
12.85 
12.53
27.02
27.02
1,122,870
383,846
David Hathorn 12,250 
4,190
25/3/2004 
26/4/2004
12.85 
12.53
27.02
27.02
330,995
113,214
Simon Thompson 14,088 
7,526
25/3/2004 
26/4/2004
12.85 
12.53
27.02
27.02
380,658
203,353
  In the case of the LTIP awards granted in 2004, the determinants for vesting were 50% on relative TSR and 50% on meeting specified Group ROCE targets. The ROCE targets are a function of targeted 
improvement in returns on existing capital employed at the start of the performance period and targeted returns in excess of the cost of capital on new capital investment over that period. The entry level target 
for any LTIP has been the actual return achieved on the capital employed, excluding capital work in progress, in the year immediately preceding the commencement of the performance period. In order to maintain 
the effectiveness of the plan in driving long-term performance, the actual returns in the final performance year are adjusted for movements in commodity prices, certain foreign exchange rate effects  
(e.g. translation windfalls), capital in progress (to reflect the fact that mines under construction absorb large amounts of capital before producing a return), relevant changes in the composition of the Group  
(e.g. significant acquisitions and disposals) and other one-off factors which would otherwise result in a misleading outcome.
  The threshold blended target (i.e. the target on existing and new capital) for the performance period for the 2004 LTIP was 14.4% and the upper blended target 15.99%. The ROCE achieved was 17.5% and the 
outcome on this element of the LTIP was thus 100%. On the TSR measure, Anglo American achieved a TSR over the three-year performance period of 155%, which generated a nil vesting in terms of the 2004 
Comparator Group. The overall vesting level for those directors with a 50% Group ROCE, 50% TSR split was therefore 50%.
(3)
 Following the demerger of Mondi, a proportion of David Hathorn’s outstanding LTIP awards from 2005 and 2006 vested as follows:
Shares vested
Number of  
shares vested
Dates of  
conditional award
Market price at  
date of award £
Market price at  
date of vesting £
Money value at  
date of vesting £
David Hathorn 53,494 5/4/2005 12.54 31.75 1,698,435
25,620 29/3/2006 20.72 31.75 813,435
10.5 Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
Cynthia Carroll purchased 28 shares under the SIP 
scheme during the year. René Médori purchased 
53 shares under the SIP scheme during the year in 
addition to the 38 shares held by him at 1 January 
2007. If these shares are held for three years, 
they will be matched by the Company on a one-
for-one basis, conditional upon the director’s 
continued employment. Tony Trahar purchased 
20 shares under the SIP scheme during the year 
whilst still a director, in addition to the 297 shares 
held by him at the beginning of the year. Simon 
Thompson purchased 20 shares under the SIP 
scheme during the year whilst still a director, 
in addition to the 297 shares held by him at 
1 January 2007. 
Participants in the SIP scheme are entitled 
to receive dividends on the matching shares. 
Shares purchased prior to 3 July 2007 were 
subject to the share consolidation following the 
demerger of Mondi.
10.3 Long Term Incentive Plan 
Conditional awards of shares were made in 
2007 to executive directors under the LTIP  
as shown in Figure 13. 
10.4 Directors’ share options
No executive share options have been granted 
to executive directors since 2003 (Figure 14).
Details of the share options exercised by 
the executive directors in 2007 are shown in 
Figure 15.
The highest and lowest mid-market prices 
of the Company’s shares during the period  
1 January 2007 to 31 December 2007 were 
£36.41 and £23.30 respectively. The  
mid-market price of the Company’s shares  
at 31 December 2007 was £30.80.
The information provided in sections 10.2 
to 10.5 is a summary. However, full details of 
directors’ shareholdings and options are 
contained in the Registers of Directors’ Interests 
of the Company, which are open to inspection.
10.6 Pensions
10.6.1 Directors’ pension arrangements
Cynthia Carroll participated in defined contribution 
pension arrangements in terms of her contract 
with AAS. In 2007, normal contributions were 
payable on her behalf at the rate of 30% of the 
basic salary payable under this contract. 
Tony Trahar participated in defined 
contribution pension arrangements in terms of 
his contract with AAI(IOM), for services to be 
rendered outside South Africa. In 2007, normal 
contributions were payable at the rate of 35% 
of the basic salary payable under this contract. 
He also participated in the Anglo American 
Corporation Pension Fund (the Fund) in respect 
of his South African contract, whereby he   
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 79
Figure 14:
DIRECTo RS’ SHARE o PTIo NS
Anglo American options
(1)
Beneficial  
holding at  
1 January
2007
(2)
Granted Exercised Lapsed
Beneficial 
holding at 
31 December 
2007
Weighted 
average option 
price £
Earliest date from 
which exercisable Latest expiry date
Tony Trahar 5,553 – (4,497) (1,056) – – – –
René Médori 951 – – – 951 17.97 1/9/2013 28/2/2014
(1)
  Share options in respect of shares, the market price for which as at 31 December 2007 is equal to, or exceeds, the option exercise price. As at 31 December 2007, there were no share options with an exercise 
price above the market price.
(2)
  Beneficial holdings include SAYE options held by Tony Trahar, of 3,792 and 1,761 options, with option prices of £4.85 and £10.15 respectively. There were no performance conditions attached to these options. 
Beneficial holdings include SAYE options held by René Médori of 951 options with an option price of £17.97. There are no performance conditions attached to these options.
Figure 15:
ANGLo AMERICAN o PTIo NS
Number exercised Option price £
Market price at date of 
exercise £ Gain £
Tony Trahar 3,792 4.85 27.59 86,230
705 10.15 29.84 13,881
accrued an annual pension at the rate of 2.2% 
of pensionable salary (as defined in the rules of 
that scheme) for each year of pensionable 
service. This scheme provides spouse’s benefits 
of two-thirds of the member’s pension on the 
death of a member. It does not have provision 
for guaranteed pension increases.
David Hathorn participated in defined 
contribution pension arrangements in terms of 
his contract with AAI(IOM), for services to be 
rendered outside South Africa. In 2007, normal 
contributions were payable at the rate of 30% 
of the basic salary payable under this contract. 
He also participated in the Fund in respect of  
his South African contract, on the same terms 
as above. 
René Médori participated in defined 
contribution pension arrangements in terms of 
his contract with AAI(IOM). In 2007, normal 
contributions were payable on his behalf at the 
rate of 30% of the basic salary payable under 
this contract. 
Simon Thompson participated in defined 
contribution pension arrangements in terms of 
his contract with AAS. In 2007, normal 
contributions were payable on his behalf at the 
rate of 30% of the basic salary payable under 
this contract.
10.6.2  Defined contribution pension 
schemes 
The amounts paid into defined contribution 
pension schemes by the Group in respect of the 
individual directors are shown in Figure 16.
Figure 16:
DEFINED Co NTRIBuTIo N PENSIo N SCHEMES
Normal contributions
Directors
2007 
£000
2006
£000
Cynthia Carroll
(1)
270 –
Tony Trahar
(2)
* 186 354
David Hathorn* 86 143
René Médori
(2)
183 168
Simon Thompson
(2)(3)
* 73 156
* Up to date of leaving service.
(1)
  The actual contributions paid into pension arrangements for Cynthia Carroll amounted in 2007 to £203,000, the balance being payable 
in the form of a cash allowance to an equivalent cost to the employer. This allowance does not form part of basic salary nor is it included 
in determining awards under the BSP.
(2)
  Tony Trahar, René Médori and Simon Thompson contractually agreed with their employing companies that supplementary pension 
contributions should be made into their defined contribution pension arrangements in return for reductions in their future basic salaries 
and/or reductions in the cash element awarded under the BSP for performance in 2006. These supplementary contributions, of 
£1,353,000 (2006: £866,000), £68,000 (2006: £145,000) and £4,000 (2006: £242,000) respectively, are included in the directors’ 
emoluments table on page 76. 
(3)
  In addition, as part of the terms upon which he left service, the Company contributed an additional amount of £152,000 into the pension 
arrangements of Simon Thompson.
Figure 17:
DEFINED BENEFIT PENSIo N SCHEMES
Executive directors
Additional benefit 
earned/(expended) 
(excluding inflation) 
during the year 
ended 31 December 
2007
£000
Accrued 
entitlement  
as at  
31 December 
2007
£000
Transfer value 
of accrued 
benefits as at  
31 December 
2007
Transfer value 
of accrued 
benefits as at  
31 December 
2006
Increase/
(decrease)
transfer value
in the year 
less any 
personal
contributions
(1)
Tony Trahar (16) 7 130 329 (199)
David Hathorn (12) – – 131 (131)
(1)
  The transfer value, less any personal contributions, of the increase/(decrease) in additional benefits earned/(expended) during 2007 
amounted for Tony Trahar and David Hathorn to £7,000 and £nil respectively. Governance
80 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Remuneration report continued
Figure 18:
SHARES IN ANGLo A MERICAN PLC As at 31 December 2007 (or, if earlier, date of resignation)
Beneficial Conditional
Directors SIP LTIP
BSP 
Bonus Shares
BSP Enhancement 
Shares Other
Cynthia Carroll
(1)
27 27 73,538 – – 120,773
Tony Trahar
(2)
103,674 279 331,675 75,395 56,545 –
David Hathorn
(2)
124,841 – – – – –
René Médori
(3)
10,952 84 165,256 23,578 19,431 –
Simon Thompson
(2)
78,715 277 150,959 43,199 32,398 –
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart
(4)
23,300 – – – – –
Ralph Alexander
(2)
1,179 – – – – –
David Challen 1,820 – – – – –
Chris Fay 6,827 – – – – –
Bobby Godsell 83 – – – – –
Sir Rob Margetts
(5)
12,097 – – – – –
Nicky Oppenheimer
(6)
33,557,016 – – – – –
Fred Phaswana 14,021 – – – – –
Mamphela Ramphele 612 – – – – –
Karel Van Miert 455 – – – – –
Peter Woicke 2,531 – – – – –
Figure 19:
SHARES IN ANGLo A MERICAN PLC As at 1 January 2007
(7)
 (or, if later, date of appointment)
Beneficial Conditional
Directors SIP LTIP
BSP 
Bonus Shares
BSP Enhancement 
Shares Other
Cynthia Carroll
(1)
– – – – – 132,718
Tony Trahar
(2)
40,291 297 331,675 124,965 93,723 –
David Hathorn
(2)
17,851 – 126,560 32,837 24,627 –
René Médori
(3)
38 38 115,414 8,724 6,542 20,240
Simon Thompson
(2)
78,655 297 150,959 41,366 31,024 –
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart
(4)
24,167 – – – – –
Ralph Alexander
(2)
784 – – – – –
David Challen 2,000 – – – – –
Chris Fay 7,503 – – – – –
Bobby Godsell 92 – – – – –
Sir Rob Margetts
(5)
12,346 – – – – –
Nicky Oppenheimer
(6)
42,126,048 – – – – –
Fred Phaswana 13,920 – – – – –
Mamphela Ramphele 102 – – – – –
Karel Van Miert 500 – – – – –
Peter Woicke 1,484 – – – – –  
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 81
Figure 20:
SHARES IN ANGLo A MERICAN PLC As at 1 January 2008 (or, if later, date of appointment)
Beneficial Conditional
Directors SIP LTIP
BSP 
Bonus Shares
BSP Enhancement 
Shares Other
Cynthia Carroll
(1)
27 27 73,538 – – 120,773
René Médori
(3)
10,952 84 165,256 23,578 19,431 –
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart
(4)
23,300 – – – – –
David Challen 1,820 – – – – –
Chris Fay 6,827 – – – – –
Bobby Godsell 83 – – – – –
Sir Rob Margetts
(5)
12,097 – – – – –
Nicky Oppenheimer
(6)
33,557,016 – – – – –
Fred Phaswana 14,021 – – – – –
Mamphela Ramphele 612 – – – – –
Karel Van Miert 455 – – – – –
Peter Woicke 2,531 – – – – –
Figure 21:
SHARES IN ANGLo A MERICAN PLC As at 19 February 2008 (or, if earlier, date of resignation)
Beneficial Conditional
Directors SIP LTIP
BSP 
Bonus Shares
BSP Enhancement 
Shares Other
Cynthia Carroll
(1)
36 36 73,538 – – 120,773
René Médori
(3)
10,961 93 165,256 23,578 19,431 –
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart
(4)
23,743 – – – – –
David Challen 1,820 – – – – –
Chris Fay 6,827 – – – – –
Bobby Godsell 83 – – – – –
Sir Rob Margetts
(5)
12,343 – – – – –
Nicky Oppenheimer
(6)
33,557,016 – – – – –
Fred Phaswana 14,451 – – – – –
Mamphela Ramphele 777 – – – – –
Karel Van Miert 455 – – – – –
Peter Woicke 2,911 – – – – –
(1)
  Following her appointment as an executive director on 15 January 2007, Cynthia Carroll was granted 132,718 forfeitable shares in compensation for long-term incentives forgone at her previous employer, the release 
of which is conditional on her continued employment with the Group. As a result of the share consolidation following the demerger of Mondi, 11,945 shares lapsed and the resultant forfeitable award was 120,773 
forfeitable shares, of which 72,464 are due to be released to her in 2008, 24,155 will be released in 2009 and 24,154 will be released in 2010, subject to her continued employment.
(2)
 Tony Trahar resigned from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 17 April 2007. Messrs Thompson, Hathorn and Alexander resigned on 13 April, 3 July and 26 October 2007 respectively.
 (3)
 René Médori received 50,600 shares upon joining Anglo American plc, 30,360 were released on 1 May 2006 and 20,240 were released to him on 1 May 2007.
(4)
 Sir Mark Moody-Stuart’s beneficial interest includes 12,500 Shares arising as a result of his interest in a family trust.
(5)
 Sir Rob Margetts’ beneficial interest arises as a result of his wife’s interest in these Shares.
(6)
  Nicky Oppenheimer’s beneficial interest in 33,556,927 of these Shares arises as a result of his interest in a discretionary trust which is treated as interested in 27,300,000 Shares in which E Oppenheimer & Son 
Holdings Limited is treated as interested and 6,252,377 Shares in which Central Holdings Limited is treated as interested. The 6,252,377 Shares referred to above are Shares held by Debswana Diamond 
Company (Pty) Limited, in which Nicky Oppenheimer and Central Holdings Limited have no economic interest. His interest in 4,550 of these Shares arises as a result of his wife’s interest in a trust which has an 
indirect economic interest in those Shares.
(7)
 Before the share consolidation of 2 July 2007. Governance
82 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Remuneration report continued
10.6.3 Defined benefit pension schemes 
Tony Trahar and David Hathorn were eligible up 
to 30 June 2007 for membership of the Anglo 
American Corporation Pension Fund (the Fund) 
in respect of their South African remuneration. 
The Fund is a funded final salary occupational 
pension scheme approved by the Financial 
Services Board and the Commissioner of Inland 
Revenue in South Africa (Figure 17). 
The transfer values disclosed above do not 
represent a sum paid or payable to the 
individual director; instead, they represent 
potential liabilities of the pension scheme.
10.6.4 Excess retirement benefits
No person who served as a director of the 
Company during or before 2007 has been paid 
or received retirement benefits in excess of the 
retirement benefits to which he or she was 
entitled on the date on which benefits first 
became payable (or 31 March 1997, whichever 
is later).
11.  Sums paid to third parties in 
respect of a director’s services
No consideration was paid to or became 
receivable by third parties for making available 
the services of any person as a director of the 
Company, or while a director of the Company, 
as a director of any of the Company’s subsidiary 
undertakings, or as a director of any other 
undertaking of which he/she was (while a 
director of the Company) a director by virtue  
of the Company’s nomination, or otherwise 
in connection with the management of the 
Company or any undertaking during the year  
to 31 December 2007.
12. Directors’ share interests 
The interests of directors who held office during 
the period 1 January 2007 to 31 December 
2007 in ordinary shares of the Company and 
its subsidiaries were as shown in Figures 18 
and 19.
Figures 20 and 21 outline the changes in 
the above interests which occurred between 
1 January 2008 and the date of this report.
Approval
This directors’ remuneration report has been 
approved by the Board of directors of Anglo 
American plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors
Sir Rob Margetts
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
19 February 2008  
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 83
This letter contains the findings and conclusions 
from our review of the processes followed by 
Anglo American’s Remuneration Committee 
(the Committee) during 2007. The review was 
undertaken at the request of the Chairman of 
the Committee in order to provide shareholders 
with assurance that the processes followed by 
the Committee supported the policy stated in 
Anglo American’s Remuneration Report.
It is our view that the processes followed by 
the Committee during 2007 fully supported the 
Company’s remuneration policy. Please find 
below a description of the process that we 
followed in coming to our conclusion, along with 
our detailed observations and 
recommendations.
Review process
In order to reach our view we undertook the 
following:
•  a review of the Committee’s terms of 
reference;
•  a review of the minutes of the Committee 
covering the period from January to December 
2007;
•  a review of any briefing materials prepared for 
the Committee during the year;
•  an interview with Chris Corrin in his capacity 
as Secretary to the Committee; and 
•  an interview with the Chairman of the 
Committee.
Findings
The Committee comprises entirely independent 
non-executive directors. It met formally on four 
occasions in 2007. 
We reviewed the minutes of each meeting 
along with any supporting papers or 
documentation that was tabled. We found that 
the decisions taken by the Committee were in 
line with Anglo American’s stated remuneration 
policy, namely that levels of reward, whilst 
competitive, require demanding performance 
conditions to be met which are consistent with 
shareholder interests. We are satisfied that the 
Committee closely adheres to the stated policy 
of setting base pay levels at the median of 
comparable companies, that at least 50% of 
remuneration for the executive directors is 
performance-related and that variable pay is 
consistent with business performance, market 
conditions and retention of talent.
We are satisfied that the Committee 
challenges the proposals put forward by 
executive management and adopts a rigorous 
and robust approach to decision making. 
We are also satisfied that the Committee 
seeks the advice of external consultants on 
technical issues where appropriate and gives 
careful consideration to the information and 
recommendations that it receives, before 
reaching an informed decision. 
Conclusions
On the basis of the document review referred to 
above and the interviews with the Chairman 
and Secretary of the Committee, we are 
comfortable that the Committee has discharged 
its duties in line with the Principles of Executive 
Remuneration stated in Anglo American’s 
Annual Report.
As noted in previous years we consider that 
the members of the Committee are an effective 
and cohesive team and that the Committee is an 
exemplar of best practice. We understand that 
in order to maintain this high standard 
consideration is being given to refreshing the 
membership of the Committee in line with the 
requirements of the Combined Code.
Further detail regarding the Mercer Review 
is included in a letter of this date addressed to 
the Committee Chairman which we understand 
will be made available on the Company’s website.
Yours sincerely,
 
Mark Hoble
Principal
Mercer Limited
Tower Place 
London EC3R 5BU
7 February 2008
Independent remuneration  
report review Governance
84 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to 
prepare financial statements for each financial 
year. The directors are required by the IAS 
Regulation to prepare the Group financial 
statements under International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by 
the European Union. The Group financial 
statements are also required by law to be 
properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 
requires that IFRS financial statements present 
fairly for each financial year the Company’s 
financial position, financial performance and 
cash flows. This requires the faithful 
representation of the effects of transactions, 
other events and conditions in accordance with 
the definitions and recognition criteria for 
assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out 
in the International Accounting Standards 
Board’s ‘Framework for the preparation and 
presentation of financial statements’. In 
virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation 
will be achieved by compliance with all 
applicable IFRS. However, directors are also 
required to:
•  properly select and apply accounting policies;
•  present information, including accounting 
policies, in a manner that provides relevant, 
reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; and 
•  provide additional disclosures when 
compliance with the specific requirements 
in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent 
company financial statements in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law).  
The parent company financial statements are 
required by law to give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company. In preparing 
these financial statements, the directors are 
required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently; 
•  make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and
•  state whether applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained  
in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper 
accounting records that disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and enable them to 
ensure that the parent company financial 
statements comply with the Companies  
Act 1985. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 85 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Page 
Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of Anglo American plc 86
Principal statements
Consolidated income statement 87
Consolidated balance sheet 88
Consolidated cash flow statement 89
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 90
Reconciliation from EBITDA to cash inflows from  
continuing operations 90
Notes to the financial statements
 1 Accounting policies 91
 2 Segmental information 95
 3 Profit for the financial year 98
 4 Group operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures 99
 5 Exploration expenditure 100
 6 Employee numbers and costs 100
 7 Special items and remeasurements 100
 8 Net finance costs 102
 9 Financial instrument gains and losses 102
 10 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 102
 11 Dividends 103
 12 Earnings per share 103
 13 Intangible assets 104
 14 Tangible assets 104
 15 Biological assets 105
 16 Environmental rehabilitation trusts 105
 17 Investments in associates 105
 18 Joint ventures 106
 19 Financial asset investments 106
 20 Inventories 107
 21 Trade and other receivables 107
 22 Trade and other payables 107
 23 Financial assets 107
 24 Financial liabilities 107
 25  Financial risk management and derivative financial  
assets/liabilities 108
 26 Provisions for liabilities and charges 112
 27 Deferred tax 112
 28 Retirement benefits 113
 29 Called-up share capital and share-based payments 116
 30 Reconciliation of changes in equity 121
 31 Consolidated cash flow analysis 122 
 32 EBITDA by business segment  123
33 Discontinued operations 124
34 Acquisitions 125
 35 Disposals and demerger of subsidiaries and businesses 127
 36 Disposal groups and non-current assets held for sale 129
 37 Capital commitments 130
 38 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets 130
 39 Operating leases 130
 40 Related party transactions 130
 41 Group companies 131
42 Events occurring after end of year 132
 43 Financial statements of the parent company 133
Contents
Financial statements
Financial  
statements 86 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
We have audited the Group and Company financial statements 
(the ‘Financial statements’) of Anglo American plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated income 
statement, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash 
flow statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income 
and expense, the Reconciliation from EBITDA to cash inflows from 
continuing operations, the Accounting policies, the related notes 2 to 
42 and the Company balance sheet and related notes. These Financial 
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out 
therein. We have also audited the information in the Remuneration 
report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, 
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union, and for preparing the Company financial statements 
and the Remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of 
directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial statements and the part of 
the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal 
and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial statements 
give a true and fair view and whether the Financial statements 
and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and 
whether, in addition, the Group financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given 
in the directors’ report is consistent with the Financial statements. 
The information given in the directors’ report includes that specific 
information presented in the operating and financial review that is 
cross referred from the business review section of the directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information 
specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined 
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to 
consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all 
risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s 
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as 
described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent 
with the audited Financial statements. We consider the implications 
for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements 
or material inconsistencies with the Financial statements. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant 
to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial statements and the 
part of the Remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an 
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the 
directors in the preparation of the Financial statements, and of whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s 
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information 
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the 
Financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be 
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud 
or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated 
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial 
statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•  the Group financial statements give a true and fair view,  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union,  
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2007  
and of its profit for the year then ended;
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation;
•  the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice, of the state of the parent Company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2007;
•  the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration 
report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 1985; and
•  the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with  
the Financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors  
London 
19 February 2008
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Anglo American plc 87 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
     Before Special  Before Special 
     special items items and  special items items and 
     and remeasurements  and  remeasurements  
     remeasurements (note 7)      remeasurements                (note 7) 
US$ million   Note 2007 2007 2007 2006
 (1)
 2006
 (1)
 2006
 (1)
Group revenue 2 25,470 – 25,470 24,991 – 24,991
Total operating costs  (16,952) (246) (17,198) (16,943) (406) (17,349)
Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures 2,4 8,518 (246) 8,272 8,048 (406) 7,642
Net profit on disposals 7 – 460 460 – 265 265
Share of net income from associates 2,17 640 (443) 197 463 144 607
Total profit from operations and associates 2 9,158 (229) 8,929 8,511 3 8,514
 Investment income  684 58 742 559 50 609
 Interest expense  (821) (29) (850) (669) (11) (680)
Net finance costs 8 (137) 29 (108) (110) 39 (71)
Profit before tax  9,021 (200) 8,821 8,401 42 8,443
Income tax (expense)/income 10 (2,676) (17) (2,693) (2,598) 80 (2,518)
Profit for the financial year – continuing operations  6,345 (217) 6,128 5,803 122 5,925
Profit for the financial year – discontinued operations 33 318 1,726 2,044 593 404 997
Profit for the financial year – total Group  6,663 1,509 8,172 6,396 526 6,922
Attributable to (continuing operations):
Minority interests    868 (34) 834 784 (8) 776
Equity shareholders of the Company 3 5,477 (183) 5,294 5,019 130 5,149
Attributable to (discontinued operations):
Minority interests    34 – 34 141 (181) (40)
Equity shareholders of the Company 3 284 1,726 2,010 452 585 1,037
Attributable to (total Group):
Minority interests    902 (34) 868 925 (189) 736
Equity shareholders of the Company   3 5,761 1,543 7,304 5,471 715 6,186
Earnings per share (US$)
Basic – continuing operations   12   4.04   3.51
Basic – discontinued operations   12   1.54   0.70
Basic – total Group   12   5.58   4.21
Diluted – continuing operations    12   3.99   3.43
Diluted – discontinued operations   12   1.51   0.69
Diluted – total Group   12   5.50   4.12
Dividends
Proposed ordinary dividend per share (US cents)  11   86   75
Proposed ordinary dividend (US$ million)   11   1,031   1,107
Ordinary dividends paid during the year per share  
(US cents)   11   113   95
Ordinary dividends paid during the year (US$ million)  11   1,527   1,391
Dividend in specie   11   3,718   –
Special dividends paid during the year per share  
(US cents)   11   –   100
Special dividends paid during the year (US$ million)  11   –   1,448
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to reclassify amounts relating to discontinued operations. 
Underlying earnings and underlying earnings per share are set out in note 12. 
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2007 88 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
US$ million      Note  2007 2006
Intangible assets      13  1,556 2,134
Tangible assets      14  23,534 23,498
Biological assets      15  3 324
Environmental rehabilitation trusts      16  252 197
Investments in associates      17  3,341 4,780
Financial asset investments      19  4,780 1,973
Deferred tax assets      27  474 372
Other non-current assets        102 173
Total non-current assets        34,042 33,451
Inventories      20  2,344 2,974
Trade and other receivables      21  3,731 5,312
Current tax assets        223 225
Other current financial assets (derivatives)     25  535 329
Cash and cash equivalents      31b  3,129 3,004
Total current assets        9,962 11,844
Assets classified as held for sale      36  758 1,188
Total assets        44,762 46,483
Trade and other payables      22  (3,950) (5,040)
Short term borrowings      24  (5,895) (2,028)
Short term provisions      26  (142) (62)
Current tax liabilities        (992) (1,453)
Other current financial liabilities (derivatives)     25  (501) (216)
Total current liabilities        (11,480) (8,799)
Medium and long term borrowings      24  (2,404) (4,220)
Retirement benefit obligations      28  (444) (775)
Other financial liabilities (derivatives)      25  (85) (304)
Deferred tax liabilities      27  (4,650) (3,687)
Provisions for liabilities and charges      26  (1,082) (1,024)
Total non-current liabilities        (8,665) (10,010)
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale    36  (287) (547)
Total liabilities        (20,432) (19,356)
Net assets        24,330 27,127
Equity 
Called-up share capital      29,30  738 771
Share premium account      30  2,713 2,713
Other reserves      30  3,155 1,049
Retained earnings      30  15,855 19,738
Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company      22,461 24,271
Minority interests      30  1,869 2,856
Total equity        24,330 27,127
 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 19 February 2008.
Cynthia Carroll René Médori
Chief executive Finance director
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 2007 89 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
US$ million      Note  2007 2006
 (1)
Cash inflows from continuing operations      31a  9,375 9,012
Dividends from associates        275 241
Dividends from financial asset investments       36 10
Income tax paid        (2,886) (1,926)
Net cash inflows from operating activities – continuing operations     6,800 7,337
Net cash inflows from operating activities – discontinued operations     464 973
Net cash inflows from operating activities – total Group      7,264 8,310
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired   34  (772) (142)
Investment in associates        (1) (8)
Investment in joint ventures      34  (1,114) (7)
Purchase of tangible assets        (3,931) (2,909)
Investment in biological assets        (1) (1)
Purchase of financial asset investments        (47) (40)
External loans granted        (108) –
Loans granted to related parties        – (65)
Interest received and other investment income       228 193
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed    35  110 786
Sale of interests in associates        – 40
Repayment of loans and capital from associates     17  119 394
Proceeds from disposal of tangible assets        111 100
Proceeds from sale of financial asset investments       601 72
Other investing activities        (31) (33)
Net cash used in investing activities – continuing operations      (4,836) (1,620)
Net cash inflows from/(used in) investing activities – discontinued operations     2,575 (185)
Net cash used in investing activities – total Group       (2,261) (1,805)
 
Cash flows from financing activities
Issue of shares by subsidiaries to minority interests       29 73
Sale of treasury shares to employees        134 259
Purchase of treasury shares        (6,217) (3,922)
Interest paid        (483) (294)
Dividends paid to minority interests        (728) (311)
Dividends paid to Company shareholders        (1,538) (2,888)
Receipt of short term borrowings        2,780 421
Receipt of medium and long term borrowings       341 267
Capital element of finance leases        – (16)
Other financing activities        21 51
Net cash used in financing activities – continuing operations      (5,661) (6,360)
Net cash inflows from/(used in) financing activities – discontinued operations     692 (315)
Net cash used in financing activities – total Group       (4,969) (6,675)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents      34 (170)
 
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year     31c  2,980 3,319
Cash movements in the year        34 (170)
Effects of changes in foreign exchange rates       60 (169)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year     31c  3,074 2,980
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to reclassify amounts relating to discontinued operations.
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2007 90 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
US$ million        2007 2006
Net gains on revaluation of available for sale investments      2,326 492
Net gains on revaluation of available for sale investments – associates     10 –
Impairment of available for sale investments       – (13)
Loss on cash flow hedges        (286) (502)
Loss on cash flow hedges – associates        (41) (117)
Exchange losses on translation of foreign operations       (303) (439)
Actuarial net (losses)/gains on post retirement benefit schemes      (37) 102
Actuarial net (losses)/gains on post retirement benefit schemes – associates     (6) 3
Deferred tax        (123) 60
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity       1,540 (414)
Transferred to income statement: sale of available for sale investments     (298) (27)
Transferred to income statement: impairment of available for sale investments     – 13
Transferred to income statement: cash flow hedges       315 148
Transferred to income statement: exchange differences on disposal of foreign operations    337 9
Tax on items transferred from equity        3 (33)
Total transferred to equity        357 110
Profit for the year        8,172 6,922
Total recognised income and expense for the year
(1)
       10,069 6,618
Attributable to:
Minority interests        844 603
Equity shareholders of the Company        9,225 6,015
 
(1)  
Total recognised income and expense for the year of $2,026 million (2006: $987 million) relates to discontinued operations.
Reconciliation from EBITDA to cash inflows from continuing operations
for the year ended 31 December 2007
US$ million        2007 2006
 (1)
EBITDA – continuing operations
(2) 
        11,171 10,431
Share of operating profit of associates before special items and remeasurements     (1,072) (840)
Underlying depreciation and amortisation in associates       (183) (129)
Share-based payment charges        138 182
Fair value gains before special items and remeasurements      (12) (13)
Additional pension contributions        – (188)
Provisions        77 14
Increase in inventories        (352) (299)
Increase in operating receivables        (389) (602)
Increase in operating payables        53 511
Other adjustments        (56) (55)
Cash inflows from continuing operations        9,375 9,012
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations.
(2) 
EBITDA is operating profit before special items, remeasurements, depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and joint ventures and share of EBITDA of associates:
US$ million           2007 2006
 (1)
Operating profit including associates’ operating profit before special items and remeasurements – continuing operations
(3)
   9,590 8,888
Depreciation and amortisation
 Subsidiaries and joint ventures        1,398 1,414
 Associates        183 129
EBITDA – continuing operations        11,171 10,431
 
(3) 
‘Operating profit including associates’ operating profit before special items and remeasurements’ is reconciled to ‘Profit for the financial year’ in note 2.
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 31 December 2007 91 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Financial Reporting Interpretation 
Committee (IFRIC) interpretations adopted for use by the European Union and with 
those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention 
as modified by the recording of pension assets and liabilities and the revaluation of 
biological assets and certain financial instruments. A summary of the principal Group 
accounting policies is set out below with an explanation of changes to previous policies 
following adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations in the year.
The details of the elections made on conversion to IFRS were set out in the 
31 December 2005 Annual Report.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles, requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect  
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements 
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 
Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the 
amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Details of the Group’s significant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates 
are set out in the ‘Operating and financial review’ and form part of these financial 
statements; these are set out on page 57.
Significant areas of estimation uncertainty include:
• useful economic lives of assets and ore resources estimates;
• impairment of assets;
• restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs; and
• retirement benefits.
Adoption of standards and changes in accounting policies
The Group has adopted early with effect from 1 January 2007 the revision to IAS 23 
Borrowing costs. This did not have any impact on the Group.
The Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the associated 
revisions to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. This has resulted in the 
financial instrument disclosures previously required by IAS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Presentation and Disclosure being replaced by those required under IFRS 7 as well 
as the inclusion of capital risk management disclosures.
Discontinued operations
On 2 July 2007 the Paper and Packaging business was demerged from the Group 
by way of a dividend in specie paid to shareholders. 
On 2 October 2007 the Group sold 67.1 million shares in AngloGold Ashanti 
Limited which reduced the Group’s shareholding from 41.6% to 17.3%. The Group’s 
representation on the company’s board was also withdrawn at this time. The 
remaining investment is accounted for as a financial asset investment. 
Both of these operations are considered discontinued and therefore the prior  
period Consolidated income statement and Consolidated cash flow statement have 
been adjusted in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations.
Basis of consolidation
The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial statements  
of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) made up  
to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power  
to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in  
the Consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to  
the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the 
Group. Intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated  
on consolidation, where appropriate.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the net assets and profit for the financial 
year is attributed to the minority interests as shown on the Consolidated income 
statement and Consolidated balance sheet. Any losses applicable to the minority 
interests in excess of the total recognised minority interests are allocated against 
the interests of the parent until such time as future profits have exceeded the losses 
previously absorbed.
Associates
Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to exercise 
significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the 
financial and operating policy decisions of the investee. Typically the Group owns 
between 20% and 50% of the voting equity of its associates. Investments in 
associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting except when 
classified as held for sale.
The Group’s share of associates’ net income is based on their most recent audited 
financial statements or unaudited interim statements drawn up to the Group’s 
balance sheet date.
The total carrying values of investments in associates represent the cost of each 
investment including the carrying value of goodwill, the share of post acquisition 
retained earnings, any other movements in reserves and any long term debt interests 
which in substance form part of the Group’s net investment. The carrying values 
of associates are reviewed on a regular basis and if an impairment in value has 
occurred, it is written off in the period in which those circumstances are identified. 
The Group’s share of an associate’s losses in excess of its interest in that associate 
is not recognised unless the Group has an obligation to fund such losses.
Joint venture entities
A joint venture entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long term interest and 
shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating decisions with one or 
more other venturers under a contractual arrangement. 
The Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash flows of 
such jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate consolidation. 
Proportionate consolidation combines the Group’s share of the results of the joint venture 
entity on a line by line basis with similar items in the Group’s financial statements.
Joint venture operations
The Group has contractual arrangements with other participants to engage in  
joint activities other than through a separate entity. The Group includes its assets, 
liabilities, expenditure and its share of revenue in such joint venture operations  
with similar items in the Group’s financial statements. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured at the fair 
value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume 
rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes. Sales of concentrate are stated 
at their invoiced amount which is net of treatment and refining charges. A sale 
is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed. 
This is usually when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer and the 
goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
Revenue from metal mining activities is based on the payable metal sold. 
Sales of certain commodities are ‘provisionally priced’ such that the price is not 
settled until a predetermined future date based on the market price at that time. 
Revenue on these sales is initially recognised (when the above criteria are met) 
at the current market price. ‘Provisionally priced’ sales are marked to market at each 
reporting date using the forward price for the period equivalent to that outlined in  
the contract. This mark to market adjustment is recorded in revenue.
Revenues from the sale of material by-products are included within revenue. 
Where a by-product is not regarded as significant, revenue may be credited against 
the cost of sales. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding 
and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights 
to receive payment have been established.
Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon
At the date of acquisition, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
of a subsidiary, joint venture entity or an associate, which can be measured reliably 
are recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess 
of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired 
is attributed to goodwill. Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the 
acquisition date.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included within intangible 
assets. Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of  
the associate. 
Notes to the financial statements 92 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
1. Accounting policies continued
Where the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the cost of the 
acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on the acquisition, is credited 
to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, minority interests are initially recorded at the 
minorities’ proportion of the fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised 
at acquisition.
Tangible assets
Mining properties and leases include the cost of acquiring and developing mining 
properties and mineral rights.
Mining properties are depreciated down to their residual values using the unit 
of production method based on proven and probable reserves. Depreciation is 
charged on new mining ventures from the date that the mining property is capable 
of commercial production. When there is little likelihood of a mineral right being 
exploited, or the value of the exploitable mineral right has diminished below cost,  
a write down to the recoverable amount is charged to the income statement.
For open pit operations the removal of overburden or waste ore is required to obtain 
access to the orebody. To the extent that the actual waste material removed per 
tonne of ore mined (known as the stripping ratio) is higher than the average stripping 
ratio in the early years of a mine’s production phase, the costs associated with this 
process are deferred and charged to operating costs using the expected average 
stripping ratio over the average life of the area being mined. This reflects the fact 
that waste removal is necessary to gain access to the orebody and therefore realise 
future economic benefit. The average stripping ratio is calculated as the number 
of tonnes of waste material expected to be removed during the life of mine, per 
tonne of ore mined. The average life of mine cost per tonne is calculated as the total 
expected costs to be incurred to mine the orebody divided by the number of tonnes 
expected to be mined. The cost of stripping in any period will therefore be reflective 
of the average stripping rates for the orebody as a whole. However, where the pit 
profile is such that the actual stripping ratio is below the average in the early years 
no deferral takes place as this would result in recognition of a liability for which 
there is no obligation. Instead this position is monitored and when the cumulative 
calculation reflects a debit balance deferral commences. The average life of mine 
stripping ratio and the average life of mine cost per tonne are recalculated annually 
in light of additional knowledge and changes in estimates. Changes in the life of mine 
stripping ratio are accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate.
Land and properties in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised 
impairment. Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended 
use. Buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated down to their residual values 
at varying rates, on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives or the life of 
mine, whichever is shorter. Estimated useful lives normally vary from up to 20 years 
for items of plant and equipment to a maximum of 50 years for buildings. 
Residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at least annually.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term 
and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Non-mining licences and other intangibles
Non-mining licences and other intangibles are measured initially at purchase cost and 
are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Estimated 
useful lives vary between three and five years.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible 
and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets 
are impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment, if any. Where the asset 
does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the 
asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment 
annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.  
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which estimates 
of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying 
amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount. 
An impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
Where an impairment subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset  
or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the 
increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years. 
A reversal of an impairment is recognised as income immediately. 
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of CGU that 
are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination and represents the 
lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by the Group’s Board of directors for 
internal management purposes. Details of the CGU to which goodwill is allocated are 
provided in note 13. The recoverable amount of the CGU or group of CGU to which 
goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually on a consistent date 
during each financial year, or when such events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that it may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement. Impairments 
of goodwill are not subsequently reversed.
Research and exploration expenditure
Research and exploration expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred. 
When a decision is taken that a mining property is economically feasible and should be 
developed for commercial production, all further directly attributable, pre-production 
expenditure is capitalised within tangible assets. Capitalisation of pre-production 
expenditure ceases when the mining property is capable of commercial production.
Capitalised pre-production expenditure prior to commercial production is assessed  
for impairment in accordance with the Group accounting policy stated above. 
Biological assets: afforestation and other agricultural activity
Afforestation and other agricultural assets are measured at their fair values less 
estimated selling costs during the period of biological transformation, from initial 
recognition up to the point of harvest. The fair values are determined based on 
current market prices for the assets in their present location and condition. 
Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement within other gains and 
losses for the period between planting and harvest. At point of harvest, the carrying 
value of afforestation and other agricultural assets is transferred to inventory.
Directly attributable costs incurred during the period of biological transformation 
are capitalised and the associated cash flows are presented within ‘Cash flows from 
investing activities’ in the Consolidated cash flow statement.
Inventory
Inventory and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. The production cost of inventory includes an appropriate proportion of 
depreciation and production overheads. Cost is determined on the following bases:
•  Raw materials and consumables are valued at cost on a first in, first out (FIFO) basis.
•  Finished products are valued at raw material cost, labour cost and a proportion 
of manufacturing overhead expenses.
•  Metal and coal stocks are included within finished products and are valued at 
average cost. 
At precious metals operations that produce ‘joint products’, cost is allocated  
between products according to the ratio of contribution of these metals to gross 
sales revenues.
Retirement benefits
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for its 
employees as well as post retirement medical plans. For defined contribution schemes 
the amount charged to the income statement is the contributions paid or payable during 
the year. 
For defined benefit pension and post retirement medical plans, full actuarial valuations 
are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit method and updates are 
performed for each financial year end. The average discount rate for the plans’ liabilities 
is based on AA rated corporate bonds of a suitable duration and currency or, where there 
is no ‘deep market’ for such bonds, based on government bonds. Pension plan assets are 
measured using period end market values. 
Actuarial gains and losses, which can arise from differences between expected and 
actual outcomes or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the 
‘Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense’. Any increase in the present 
value of plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service during the period is 
charged to operating profit. The expected return on plan assets and the expected increase 
during the period in the present value of plan liabilities are included in investment income 
and interest expense. 93 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
1. Accounting policies continued
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already 
vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until 
the benefits become vested. 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs 
and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this 
calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds 
and reductions in future contributions to the plan. 
Tax
The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax charge and the movement 
in deferred tax. 
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs 
from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income 
or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items 
that are not taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using 
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between 
the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the 
corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted  
for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and 
liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction (other than in a 
business combination) that affects neither the tax profit nor accounting profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associates, except where the Group 
is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date 
and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit 
will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period 
when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or 
credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied 
by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis.
Leases 
In addition to lease contracts, other significant contracts are assessed to determine 
whether, in substance, they are or contain a lease. This includes assessment of 
whether the arrangement is dependent on use of a specific asset and right to use 
that asset is conveyed through the contract.
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement in equal 
annual amounts over the lease term.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group on inception 
of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the minimum lease 
payments derived by discounting at the interest rate implicit in the lease. The interest 
element of the rental is charged against profit so as to produce a constant periodic 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability, unless it is directly 
attributable to qualifying assets, in which case it is capitalised in accordance with  
the Group’s general policy on borrowing costs (see below).
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) are classified as held for sale if their 
carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when it is highly probable and 
the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. 
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for 
recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) are classified as held for sale from the date 
these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell. Any resulting impairment is reported through the income 
statement as a special item. On classification as held for sale the assets are no 
longer depreciated. Comparative amounts are not adjusted. 
Where an asset or business has been sold or is classified as held for sale and is either 
a, or part of a, single co-ordinated plan to dispose of either a separate major line of 
business or geographical area of operation, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with 
a view to sale, it is considered to be a ‘discontinued operation’. Once an operation has 
been identified as discontinued, its net profit and cash flows are separately presented 
from continuing operations. Comparative information is reclassified so that net profit 
and cash flows of prior periods are also separately presented.
Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs
An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises when 
environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of  
a mining property. Such costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and other 
site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided for and 
capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs 
arises. These costs are charged against profits over the life of the operation, through 
the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision. 
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis 
during production are provided for at their net present values and charged against 
profits as extraction progresses. 
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant  
or other site preparation work that result from changes in the estimated timing or 
amount of the cash flow, or a change in the discount rate, are added to, or deducted 
from, the cost of the related asset in the current period. If a decrease in the liability 
exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately in 
the income statement. If the asset value is increased and there is an indication that 
the revised carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment test is performed in 
accordance with the accounting policy above.
For some South African operations annual contributions are made to dedicated 
environmental rehabilitation trusts to fund the estimated cost of rehabilitation 
during and at the end of the life of the relevant mine. The Group exercises full 
control of these trusts and therefore the trusts are consolidated. The trusts’ assets 
are recognised separately on the balance sheet as non-current assets at fair value. 
Interest earned on funds invested in the environmental rehabilitation trusts is accrued 
on a time proportion basis and recognised as interest income.
Foreign currency transactions and translation
Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are booked in their functional 
currencies at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. At each balance 
sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies 
are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Gains and losses 
arising on retranslation are included in profit or loss for the period and are classified 
as either operating or financing depending on the nature of the monetary item giving 
rise to them.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are 
translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange rates prevailing 
on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average 
exchange rates for the period where these approximate the rates at the dates of 
transactions. Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified within equity and 
transferred to the Group’s cumulative translation adjustment reserve. Exchange 
differences on foreign currency loans for which settlement is neither planned nor 
likely to occur and therefore form part of the Group’s net investment in these foreign 
operations are offset in the cumulative translation adjustment reserve. 
Cumulative translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the period 
in which the operation they relate to is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity  
are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. 
Borrowing costs
Interest on borrowings directly relating to the financing of qualifying capital projects 
under construction is added to the capitalised cost of those projects during the 
construction phase, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their 
intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, is when they are 
capable of commercial production. Where funds have been borrowed specifically 
to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs 
incurred. Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, 
the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable 
to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they 
are incurred. 94 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
1. Accounting policies continued
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments. In accordance 
with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity 
instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 1 January 2005.
The Group makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees, which 
are measured at fair value at the date of grant. For those share schemes, excluding 
share options, which do not include non-market vesting conditions, the fair value 
is determined using the Monte Carlo method at the grant date and expensed on 
a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares 
that will eventually vest. The fair value of share options issued with non-market 
vesting conditions has been calculated using the Black Scholes model. For all other 
share awards, the fair value is determined by reference to the market value of the 
share at the date of grant. For all share schemes with non-market related vesting 
conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been taken into account when determining 
the relevant charge. Vesting assumptions are reviewed during each reporting period 
to ensure they reflect current expectations.
Black economic empowerment (BEE) transactions
Where the Group disposes of a portion of a South African based subsidiary or 
operation to a BEE company at a discount to fair value, the transaction is considered 
to be a share-based payment (in line with the principle contained in South Africa 
interpretation AC 503 Accounting for Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) 
Transactions). The discount provided or value given is calculated in accordance with 
IFRS 2 and included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Employee benefit trust
The carrying value of shares held by the employee benefit trust are recorded as 
treasury shares, shown as a reduction in retained earnings within shareholders’ equity.
Presentation currency
As permitted by UK company law, the Group results are presented in US dollars,  
the currency in which most of its business is conducted.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand deposits, together 
with short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known 
amount of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.  
Bank overdrafts are, however, shown within short term borrowings in current 
liabilities on the balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 
are shown net of overdrafts.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value 
(with the exception of receivables relating to provisionally priced sales – as set out in 
the revenue recognition accounting policy) net of appropriate allowance for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. Such allowances are raised based on an assessment of debtor 
ageing, past experience or known customer circumstances.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value with the 
exception of amounts relating to purchases of provisionally priced concentrate which 
are marked to market (using the appropriate forward price) until settled.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received,  
net of direct issue costs.
Investments 
Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, 
are financial asset investments and are initially recorded at fair value. At subsequent 
reporting dates, financial assets that the Group has the expressed intention and 
ability to hold to maturity (‘held to maturity’) as well as loans and receivables are 
measured at amortised cost, less any impairment. The amortisation of any discount 
or premium on the acquisition of a held to maturity investment is recognised in the 
income statement in each period using the effective interest method.
Investments other than those classified as held to maturity or loans and receivables 
are classified as either at fair value through profit or loss (which includes investments 
held for trading) or available for sale investments. Both sub-categories are measured 
at each reporting date at fair value. Where investments are held for trading purposes, 
unrealised gains and losses for the period are included in the income statement 
within other gains and losses. For available for sale investments, unrealised gains 
and losses are recognised in equity until the investment is disposed or impaired, at 
which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in 
the income statement. 
Current financial asset investments consist mainly of bank term deposits and fixed 
and floating rate debt securities. Debt securities that are intended to be held to 
maturity are recorded on the amortised cost basis. Debt securities that are not 
intended to be held to maturity are recorded at the lower of cost and market value.
Provision is raised against these assets when there is doubt over the future 
realisation of value as a result of a known event or circumstance.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified and accounted for as debt 
or equity according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets 
of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Convertible debt
Convertible bonds denominated in the functional currency of the entity issuing the 
shares are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of a liability and an equity 
component. At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated 
using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt and is 
recorded within borrowings. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the 
convertible bond and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing 
the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included 
in equity. 
Where the embedded option is in a convertible bond denominated in a currency other 
than the functional currency of the entity issuing the shares, the option is classified 
as a liability. The option is marked to market with subsequent gains and losses being 
recorded through the income statement within net finance costs.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the 
convertible bonds where appropriate based on their relative carrying amounts at  
the date of issue. The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly 
against equity.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the 
effective interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the 
instrument. The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the 
carrying amount of the convertible bond.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received,  
net of direct transaction costs. Finance charges, including premiums payable on 
settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals 
basis and charged to the income statement using the effective interest method.  
They are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they  
are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity  
price risk, the Group enters into forward, option and swap contracts. The Group  
does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Commodity 
based (normal purchase or normal sale) contracts that meet the requirements of 
IAS 39 are recognised in earnings when they are settled by physical delivery.
All derivatives are held at fair value in the balance sheet within other financial 
assets (derivatives) or other financial liabilities (derivatives) and, when designated 
as hedges, are classified as current or non-current depending on the maturity of the 
derivative. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are classified as current,  
in accordance with IAS 1, even when their actual maturity is expected to be greater 
than one year.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and 
effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity. The gain 
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction 
results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then, at the time the 
asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that 
had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement 
of the asset or liability. For hedges that do not result in the recognition of a non-
financial asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income 
statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss. 
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged item 
is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the 
corresponding entry in profit or loss. Gains or losses from remeasuring the associated 
derivative are recognised in profit or loss.  95 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
1. Accounting policies continued
The gain or loss on hedging instruments relating to the effective portion of a net 
investment hedge is recognised in equity. The ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. Gains or losses accumulated in equity are 
included in the income statement when the foreign operations are disposed of.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not hedge accounted 
are recognised immediately in the income statement and are classified within other 
gains and losses or net finance costs depending on the type of risk the derivative 
relates to.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated, exercised, revoked, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that 
time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is 
retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs. If a hedge transaction is no 
longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in 
equity is included in the income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-financial host contracts 
are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely 
related to those of their host contracts and the host contracts themselves are not 
carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from 
the asset have expired, the right to receive cash flows has been retained but an 
obligation to on-pay them in full without material delay has been assumed or the 
right to receive cash flows has been transferred together with substantially all the 
risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the associated obligation has been 
discharged, cancelled or has expired.
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted
IFRS 8 Operating Segments replaces the segmental reporting requirements of  
IAS 14 Segment Reporting. The key change is to align the determination of segments 
in the financial statements with that used by management in their resource allocation 
decisions. This standard is not expected to have significant impact on existing disclosure.
The amendment to IAS 1 Financial statement presentation released in September 
2007 redefines the primary statements and expands on certain disclosures within 
these. Once adopted the Group’s primary statements will be amended to reflect the 
presentation required.
IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions clarifies that the manner in which an 
entity obtains the shares to satisfy its obligations in terms of a share-based payment 
transaction does not influence the classification of that transaction as equity settled 
or cash settled. In addition, where an entity satisfies a share-based payment by 
issue of its parent’s shares (rather than the parent making the share-based payment 
directly) the interpretation requires that these be treated as cash settled rather 
than equity settled. From the Group perspective this is not expected to have a 
material impact.
IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding requirements and 
their Interaction clarifies when refunds and reductions in future contributions would 
be regarded as available in determining the appropriate defined benefit asset to be 
recognised under IAS 19 Employee benefits. It further clarifies the impact of minimum 
funding requirements. This is not expected to have a material impact for the Group.
2. Segmental information
Based on risks and returns the directors consider the primary reporting format is by 
business segment and the secondary reporting format is by geographical segment.
The analysis of associates’ revenue by business segment is provided here for 
completeness and consistency. The segmental analysis of associates’ net income  
is shown below and the Group’s aggregate investment in those associates required  
by IAS 14 Segment Reporting, is set out in note 17.
In 2007 Copebrás and Yang Quarry have been reclassified from Industrial Minerals 
to Base Metals and from Industrial Minerals to Coal respectively. This is to align 
with internal management reporting. As such, the comparative data has been 
reclassified.
Discontinued operations comprise the Paper and Packaging and Gold segments. 
The Paper and Packaging segment was demerged from the Group on 2 July 2007 
and following a partial disposal on 2 October 2007 (which reduced the Group’s 
shareholding from 41.6% to 17.3%) the Group ceased to equity account for the 
Gold segment. The results for discontinued operations are disclosed in note 33.
Primary reporting format – by business segment 
    Segment result Segment result  
   Segment before special items after special items 
   revenue
 
and remeasurements
(1) 
 and remeasurements
(1)
US$ million 2007 2006
(2)
 2007 2006
(2)
 2007 2006
(2)
Subsidiaries and joint ventures
Platinum 6,673 5,766 2,635 2,337 2,635 2,337
Coal  2,880 2,757 365 605 224 452
Base Metals  7,129 6,534 4,338 3,897 4,338 3,905
Ferrous Metals and Industries 4,207 5,973 1,155 1,303 1,158 1,324
Industrial Minerals 4,581 3,961 474 315 407 46
Exploration – – (157) (132) (157) (132)
Corporate Activities – – (292) (277) (333) (290)
Total subsidiaries and  
joint ventures – continuing  
operations 25,470
(3)
 24,991
(3)
 8,518 8,048 8,272 7,642
Revenue and net income  
from associates
Platinum 116 95 38 40 38 40
Diamonds 3,076 3,148 223 199 (229) 337
Coal  694 607 190 185 190 185
Ferrous Metals and Industries 1,193 546 189 38 198 44
Industrial Minerals 10 17 – 1 – 1
Total associates –  
continuing operations 5,089 4,413 640 463 197 607
Total Group operations
including net income from  
associates – continuing  
operations 30,559 29,404 9,158 8,511 8,469 8,249
Net profit on disposals –  
continuing operations     460 265
Total profit from operations and  
associates – continuing operations     8,929 8,514
 
(1)
  Segment result is defined as being segment revenue less segment expense; that is operating profit. In 
addition ‘Share of net income from associates’ is shown by segment. There are no material inter-segment 
transfers or transactions that would affect the segment result. Special items and remeasurements are set 
out in note 7. 
(2)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations.
(3)  
This represents segment revenue; the Group’s share of associates’ revenue figures are provided for 
additional information. 
The table above represents continuing operations only, as disclosed in the income 
statement. Total Group revenue including share of revenue from associates and 
revenue from discontinued operations is $35,674 million (2006: $38,637 million) 
being $30,559 million (2006: $29,404 million) from continuing operations and 
$5,115 million (2006: $9,233 million) from discontinued operations. See note 33 
for summarised segmental disclosures relating to discontinued operations. 96 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Segmental information continued 
For information, a segmental analysis of associates’ operating profit is set out below 
to show operating profit for the Group’s continuing operations including associates.
     Operating profit Operating profit 
     before special items after special items 
     and remeasurements
(1)
 and remeasurements
(1)
US$ million   2007 2006
(2)
 2007 2006
(2)
Total subsidiaries and joint ventures   
– continuing operations   8,518 8,048 8,272 7,642
Associates
Platinum   62 61 62 61
Diamonds   484 463 19 446
Coal    249 257 249 257
Ferrous Metals and Industries   277 57 277 57
Industrial Minerals   – 2 – 2
Total associates – continuing operations  1,072 840 607 823
Total Group operations including operating  
profit from associates – continuing operations 9,590 8,888 8,879 8,465
 
(1)
 Associates’ operating profit is reconciled to ‘Share of net income from associates’ as follows:
       
US$ million     2007 2006
(2)
Operating profit from associates before special items  and remeasurements  
– continuing operations     1,072 840
Operating special items and remeasurements    (465) (17)
Operating profit from associates after special items  and remeasurements  
– continuing operations     607 823
Net profit on disposals      24 182
Net finance costs (before remeasurements)     (85) (70)
Financing remeasurements     (4) 1
Income tax expense (after special items and remeasurements)   (303) (300)
Minority interests (after special items and remeasurements)   (42) (29)
Share of net income from associates – continuing operations   197 607
 
(2)
  Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations. 
The segment result and associates’ operating profit before special items and 
remeasurements, as shown above, is reconciled to ‘Profit for the financial year’ as follows:
US$ million     2007 2006
 (1)
Operating profit, including associates, before special items  
and remeasurements – continuing operations    9,590 8,888
Operating special items and remeasurements
Subsidiaries and joint ventures     (246) (406)
  Coal     (141) (153)
  Base Metals     – 8
  Ferrous Metals and Industries     3 21
  Industrial Minerals     (67) (269)
  Corporate Activities     (41) (13)
Associates     (465) (17)
  Diamonds     (465) (17)
Operating profit, including associates, after  
special items and remeasurements – continuing operations  8,879 8,465
Net profit on disposals      
  Subsidiaries and joint ventures     460 265
  Associates     24 182
Associates’ net finance costs     (85) (70)
Associates’ financing remeasurements    (4) 1 
Associates’ income tax expense     (305) (278)
Associates’ tax on special items and remeasurements   2 (22)
Associates’ minority interests     (42) (29)
Total profit from operations and associates – continuing  
operations     8,929 8,514
Net finance costs before special items and remeasurements  (137) (110)
Financing special items     – (4)
Financing remeasurements     29 43
Profit before tax – continuing operations    8,821 8,443
Income tax expense     (2,693) (2,518)
Profit for the financial year – continuing operations   6,128 5,925
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations. 
Primary segment disclosures for segment assets, liabilities and capital expenditure 
are as follows:
  Segment  Segment  Net segment Capital  
  assets
(1)
 liabilities
(2)
 assets expenditure
(3)
US$ million 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Platinum 9,926 7,721 (692) (643) 9,234 7,078 2,512 935
Coal  4,987 3,661 (1,003) (791) 3,984 2,870 1,052 791
Base Metals 5,897 5,291 (908) (692) 4,989 4,599 582 315
Ferrous Metals and 
Industries 4,517 3,529 (530) (733) 3,987 2,796 2,412 660
Industrial Minerals 5,370 5,080 (861) (895) 4,509 4,185 352 383
Exploration 1 1 – (2) 1 (1) – –
Corporate Activities 225 200 (346) (404) (121) (204) 44 29
Continuing operations 30,923 25,483 (4,340) (4,160) 26,583 21,323 6,954 3,113 
Gold  – – – – – – – 196 
Paper and Packaging – 8,113 – (1,094) – 7,019 198 704
Discontinued operations – 8,113 – (1,094) – 7,019 198 900
Total Group 30,923 33,596 (4,340) (5,254) 26,583 28,342 7,152 4,013
Unallocated
Investments in  
associates 3,341 4,780 – – 3,341 4,780  
Financial asset 
investments 4,780 1,973 – – 4,780 1,973 
Deferred tax assets/
(liabilities) 474 372 (4,650) (3,687) (4,176) (3,315)  
Cash and cash  
equivalents 3,129 3,004 – – 3,129 3,004  
Other financial assets/ 
(liabilities) – derivatives 535 329 (586) (520) (51) (191)   
Other non-operating 
assets/(liabilities) 1,580 2,429 (2,264) (3,308) (684) (879)   
Other provisions – – (293) (339) (293) (339)   
Borrowings – – (8,299) (6,248) (8,299) (6,248)   
Net assets  44,762 46,483 (20,432) (19,356) 24,330 27,127 
 
(1)  
Segment assets at 31 December 2007 are operating assets and consist of tangible assets of $23,534 
million (2006: $23,498 million), intangible assets of $1,556 million (2006: $2,134 million), biological 
assets of $3 million (2006: $324 million), environmental rehabilitation trusts of $252 million (2006: 
$197 million), inventories of $2,344 million (2006: $2,974 million), pension and post retirement 
healthcare assets of $52 million (2006: $110 million) and operating receivables of $3,182 million 
(2006: $4,359 million). 
(2)
  Segment liabilities at 31 December 2007 are operating liabilities and consist of non-interest bearing 
current liabilities of $2,965 million (2006: $3,732 million), restoration and decommissioning provisions 
of $931 million (2006: $747 million) and retirement benefit obligations of $444 million (2006: 
$775 million). 
(3)
  Capital expenditure reflects cash payments and accruals in respect of additions to tangible assets  
of $4,129 million (2006: $3,702 million), intangible assets of $9 million (2006: $9 million) (see notes 
14 and 13 respectively) and additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations of 
$3,014 million (2006: $302 million). 
Other primary segment items included in the income statement are as follows:
   Depreciation and  (Impairments)/ Other non-
   amortisation reversal
(1)(2)
 cash expenses
(3)
US$ million 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Platinum 455 444 – – 8
(4)
 72
Coal  221 173 (153) (143) 42 27
Base Metals 344 357 – – 94 124
Ferrous Metals 
and Industries 100 199 – 11 48 37
Industrial Minerals 258 224 (43) (255) 55 20
Exploration – – – – – 2
Corporate Activities 20 17 – (13) 45 40
Continuing operations 1,398 1,414 (196) (400) 292 322
Gold  – 183 – – 32 12
Paper and Packaging 234 439 (5) (100) 12 21
Discontinued operations 234 622 (5) (100) 44 33 
Total Group 1,632 2,036 (201) (500) 336 355
 
(1)
 See operating special items in note 7.
(2)
 Amounts include negative goodwill in 2006.
(3)
  Other non-cash expenses include share-based payment charges and charges in respect of environmental 
rehabilitation provisions and other provisions.
(4)
 Includes the reversal of a share-based payment over provision of $30 million relating to prior periods.  97 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
2. Segmental information continued
Secondary reporting format – by geographical segment
The Group’s geographical analysis of revenue, allocated based on the country in 
which the customer is located, is as follows. The geographical analysis of the Group’s 
attributable revenue from associates is provided for completeness and consistency.
        Revenue
US$ million     2007 2006
(1)
Subsidiaries and joint ventures      
South Africa     4,014 4,767 
Rest of Africa     178 276 
Europe     10,718 9,142 
North America     1,686 1,817 
South America     2,545 2,797 
Australia and Asia     6,329 6,192 
Total subsidiaries and joint  ventures – continuing operations  25,470 24,991 
Associates     
South Africa     796 467 
Rest of Africa     82 40
Europe     1,498 1,532 
North America     520 421 
South America     52 41 
Australia and Asia     2,141 1,912 
Total associates – continuing operations    5,089 4,413
Total Group operations including  
associates – continuing operations     30,559 29,404 
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations.
The Group’s geographical analysis of segment assets, liabilities and capital 
expenditure, allocated based on where assets and liabilities are located, is as follows:
  Segment  Segment  Net segment Capital  
  assets liabilities assets expenditure
US$ million 2007 2006
 
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
South Africa 13,879 14,144 (1,661) (2,056)  12,218 12,088 3,303 1,935
Rest of Africa 526 732 (32) (82) 494  650 64 75
Europe 5,658 11,208 (1,057) (1,858) 4,601 9,350 526 927
North America 465 388 (106) (108) 359 280 151 202
South America 7,212 4,594 (935) (646) 6,277 3,948 2,436 301
Australia and Asia 3,183 2,530 (549) (504) 2,634 2,026 672 573
   30,923 33,596 (4,340) (5,254) 26,583 28,342 7,152 4,013
 
Additional disclosure of secondary segmental information by origin (including 
attributable revenue and operating profit from associates) is as follows:
    Operating profit/(loss) Operating profit/(loss)  
    before special items after special items
   Revenue and remeasurements
(1)
 and remeasurements
(1)
US$ million 2007 2006
(2)
 2007 2006
(2)
 2007 2006
(2)
Subsidiaries and joint ventures
South Africa 12,003 11,693 4,043 3,692 4,044 3,704
Rest of Africa 540 417 351 213 351 214
Europe 4,995 5,395 425 476 320 193
North America 230 185 30 29 31 43
South America 6,234 5,687 3,697 3,389 3,697 3,389
Australia and Asia 1,468 1,614 (28) 249 (171) 99
Total subsidiaries and  
joint ventures –  
continuing operations 25,470 24,991 8,518 8,048 8,272 7,642
Associates
South Africa 1,374 943 248 162 222 170
Rest of Africa 2,160 2,094 342 295 342 295
Europe 872 469 88 98 88 98
North America 63 38 17 25 (422) –
South America 96 542 198 190 198 190
Australia and Asia 524 327 179 70 179 70
Total associates – continuing  
operations 5,089 4,413 1,072 840 607 823
Total Group operations  
including associates –  
continuing operations 30,559 29,404 9,590 8,888 8,879 8,465
 
(1)
 Special items and remeasurements are set out in note 7.
(2)
 Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations.  98 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Profit for the financial year
The table below analyses the contribution of each business segment to the Group’s operating profit including operating profit from associates for the financial year and 
its underlying earnings, which the directors consider to be a useful additional measure of the Group’s performance. A reconciliation from ‘Profit for the financial year’ 
to ‘Underlying earnings for the financial year’ is given in note 12. 
In 2007 Copebrás and Yang Quarry have been reclassified from Industrial Minerals to Base Metals and from Industrial Minerals to Coal, respectively. This is to align with 
internal management reporting. The comparative data has been reclassified. 
Group operating profit including operating profit from associates is reconciled to ‘Underlying earnings’ and ‘Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders 
of the Company’ in the table below:
          2007
    Operating Operating       Net  
    profit/(loss)  profit/(loss)  Operating  Financing interest, 
    before special  after special  special Net special  tax and 
    items and  items and items and profit on items and minority
US$ million   remeasurements
(1)
 remeasurements remeasurements
(2)
 disposals
(2)
 remeasurements
(2)
 interests Total
By business segment
Platinum   2,697 2,697 – – – (1,398) 1,299
Diamonds   484 19 465 – – (245) 239
Coal    614 473 141 – – (124) 490
Base Metals   4,338 4,338 – – – (1,238) 3,100
Ferrous Metals and Industries   1,432 1,435 (3) – – (827) 605
Industrial Minerals   474 407 67 – – (90) 384
Exploration   (157) (157) – – – 12 (145)
Corporate Activities   (292) (333) 41 – – (203) (495)
Total/Underlying earnings – continuing operations  9,590 8,879 711 – – (4,113) 5,477
Underlying earnings adjustments – continuing operations    (711) 484 25 19 (183)
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company – continuing operations     5,294
Total/Underlying earnings – discontinued operations  526 291 235 – – (242) 284
Underlying earnings adjustments – discontinued operations    (235) 2,086 13 (138) 1,726
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company – discontinued operations     2,010
Total/Underlying earnings – total Group   10,116 9,170 946 – – (4,355) 5,761
Underlying earnings adjustments – total Group      (946) 2,570 38 (119) 1,543
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company – total Group      7,304
(1)
 Operating profit includes associates’ operating profit which is reconciled to ‘Share of net income from associates’ in note 2.
(2)
 Special items and remeasurements are set out in note 7.
          2006
     Operating  Operating     Net  
    profit/(loss)  profit/(loss)  Operating  Financing interest,  
    before special  after special  special Net special tax and 
    items and items and items and profit on items and minority 
US$ million   remeasurements
(1)
 remeasurements remeasurements
(2)
 disposals
(2)
 remeasurements
(2)
 interests Total
By business segment      
Platinum   2,398 2,398 – – – (1,133) 1,265
Diamonds   463 446 17 – – (236) 227
Coal    862 709 153 – – (225) 637
Base Metals   3,897 3,905 (8) – – (1,242) 2,655
Ferrous Metals and Industries   1,360 1,381 (21) – – (777) 583
Industrial Minerals   317 48 269 – – (56) 261
Exploration   (132) (132) – – – 19 (113)
Corporate Activities   (277) (290) 13 – – (219) (496)
Total/Underlying earnings – continuing operations   8,888 8,465 423 – – (3,869) 5,019
Underlying earnings adjustments – continuing operations    (423) 447 40 66 130
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company – continuing operations     5,149
Total/Underlying earnings – discontinued operations  944 376 568 – – (492) 452
Underlying earnings adjustments – discontinued operations    (568) 920 (14) 247 585
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company – discontinued operations     1,037
Total/Underlying earnings – total Group   9,832 8,841 991 – – (4,361) 5,471
Underlying earnings adjustments – total Group      (991) 1,367 26 313 715
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company – total Group      6,186
(1)
 Operating profit includes associates’ operating profit which is reconciled to ‘Share of net income from associates’ in note 2.
(2)
 Special items and remeasurements are set out in note 7. 99 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
4. Group operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures
US$ million     2007 2006
(1)
Group revenue     25,470 24,991 
Cost of sales
(2)
     (14,095) (14,115)
Gross profit – continuing operations     11,375 10,876
Selling and distribution costs     (1,453) (1,276)
Administrative expenses
(2)
     (1,510) (1,857)
Other gains and losses (see below)     17 31
Exploration expenditure (see note 5)     (157) (132)
Group operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures  
– continuing operations      8,272 7,642
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations.
(2)
 Includes special items of $251 million (2006: $424 million), see note 7.
US$ million     2007 2006
(1)
Operating profit is stated after charging:
Depreciation of tangible assets (see note 14)    1,396 1,413 
Amortisation of intangible assets (see note 13)   2 1
Rentals under operating leases     183 147
Research and development expenditure    41 37
Operating special items
(2)
     251 424
Employee costs (see note 6)     3,691 3,511
Foreign currency losses/(gains)     4 (39)
Adjustment due to provisional pricing
(3)
    4 282
Other gains and losses comprise:
Fair value gains on derivatives – unrealised    5 18
Fair value losses on derivatives – realised    – (32) 
Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness on operating items   – (1)
Fair value (losses)/gains on other monetary assets   (4) 39 
Gains on valuation of biological assets (see note 15)   16 7
  On initial recognition     – –
  Change in fair value less estimated point of sale costs   16 7
Total other gains and losses     17 31
 
US$ million     2007 2006
Auditors’ remuneration – continuing operations     
Audit      
 United Kingdom     3 3
 Overseas     7 7
Other services provided by Deloitte
(4)
      
 United Kingdom     2 1
 Overseas     2 4
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations.
(2)
 For further information on special items and remeasurements see note 7.
(3)   
Provisionally priced contracts resulted in a total (realised and unrealised) gain in revenue of $38 million 
(2006: $323 million gain) and loss in operating costs of $34 million (2006: $41 million loss). 
(4)  
 ‘Other services provided by Deloitte’ includes charges incurred in respect of the interim review.  
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration is provided below. This 
information for both years includes continuing and discontinued operations.
        2007
     Paid/payable  Paid/payable to auditor 
     to Deloitte  (if not Deloitte)
   United   United 
US$ million Kingdom Overseas Total Kingdom Overseas Total
Statutory audit services
(1)
Anglo American plc  
Annual Report paid to the  
Company’s auditor 2.2 – 2.2 – – –
Subsidiary entities –  
for purposes of  
Anglo American plc  
Annual Report – 4.8 4.8 – 0.1 0.1
Subsidiary entities –  
additional local statutory  
requirements 0.5 4.6 5.1 – – –
Subsidiary entities – total 0.5 9.4 9.9 – 0.1 0.1
Total 2.7 9.4 12.1 – 0.1 0.1
Other services
(1)
Other services pursuant  
to legislation 0.7 0.5 1.2 – – –
Tax services 0.4 0.7 1.1 – 0.1 0.1
Internal audit services – – – – – –
Corporate finance – 0.1 0.1 – – –
Other 0.9 1.1 2.0 – 0.2 0.2
Total 2.0 2.4 4.4 – 0.3 0.3
 
(1)
  $0.1 million was paid/payable in respect of the audit of Group pension schemes. Other services to these 
schemes amounted to $0.1 million.
        2006
(1)
     Paid/payable  Paid/payable to auditor 
     to Deloitte  (if not Deloitte)
   United   United 
US$ million Kingdom Overseas Total Kingdom Overseas Total
Statutory audit services
(2)
Anglo American plc  
Annual Report paid to the  
Company’s auditor 1.7 – 1.7 – – –
Subsidiary entities –  
for purposes of  
Anglo American plc  
Annual Report – 5.8 5.8 0.1 1.6 1.7
Subsidiary entities –  
additional local statutory  
requirements 1.4 4.6 6.0 – 1.0 1.0
Subsidiary entities – total 1.4 10.4 11.8 0.1 2.6 2.7
Total 3.1 10.4 13.5 0.1 2.6 2.7
Other services
(2)
Other services pursuant  
to legislation 5.5 1.9 7.4 – 1.2 1.2
Tax services 0.1 1.7 1.8 – 0.2 0.2
Internal audit services – 0.1 0.1 – 0.9 0.9
Corporate finance 0.1 – 0.1 0.5 0.2 0.7
Other 0.8 2.0 2.8 – 1.1 1.1
Total 6.5 5.7 12.2 0.5 3.6 4.1
 
(1)  
The comparatives have been reclassified to align with current year presentation.
(2)  
$0.1 million was paid/payable in respect of the audit of Group pension schemes. Other services to these 
schemes amounted to less than $0.1 million. 
Fees payable to Deloitte and their associates for non-audit services to the Company 
are not required to be disclosed because the consolidated financial statements are 
required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. Notes to the financial statements continued
100 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Disclosure of directors’ emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and long 
term incentive plan awards required by the Companies Act 1985 and those specified 
for audit by the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 are included in the 
Remuneration report.
7 . Special items and remeasurements
‘Special items’ are those items of financial performance that the Group believes 
should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the 
understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group and its 
businesses. Such items are material by nature or amount to the year’s results and 
require separate disclosure in accordance with IAS 1 paragraph 86. Special items that 
relate to the operating performance of the Group are classified as operating special 
items and include impairment charges and reversals and other exceptional items, 
including significant legal provisions. Non-operating special items include profits and 
losses on disposals of investments and businesses. 
Remeasurements comprise other items which the Group believes should be reported 
separately to aid an understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. 
This category includes (i) unrealised gains and losses on ‘non-hedge’ derivative 
instruments open at year end (in respect of future transactions) and the reversal 
of the historical marked to market value of such instruments settled in the year. 
The full realised gains or losses are recorded in underlying earnings in the same 
year as the underlying transaction for which such instruments provide an economic, 
but not formally designated, hedge and (ii) foreign exchange gains and losses 
arising on the retranslation of dollar denominated De Beers preference shares 
held by a rand functional currency subsidiary of the Group. Remeasurements are 
defined as operating, non-operating or financing according to the nature of the 
underlying exposure.
Subsidiaries and joint ventures’ special items and remeasurements
Operating special items
US$ million     2007 2006
Impairment of Coal Australia assets     (153) –
Costs associated with proposed sale of Tarmac    (55) –
Impairment of Tarmac assets and restructuring costs   (43) (250)
Impairment of Yang Quarry     – (28)
Impairment and closure costs of Dartbrook    – (125)
Other     – (21)
Total operating special items – continuing operations   (251) (424)
Tax      60 88
Minority interests     – 1
Net total attributable to equity shareholders of the Company  
– continuing operations     (191) (335)
 
Operating special items relate principally to impairment, restructuring and 
closure costs. 
Anglo Coal has recorded an impairment of $153 million against certain Australian 
operations to reflect the latest commercial and operational conditions relating to 
those operations. The impairment brings the carrying value in line with value in use. 
Value in use was determined using discounted cash flow models (with a discount 
rate of 6%).
Operating remeasurements
US$ million     2007 2006
Unrealised net gains on non-hedge derivatives    5 18
Tax      (1) –
Net total attributable to equity shareholders of the Company  
– continuing operations     4 18
 
5. Exploration expenditure 
US$ million     2007 2006
By business segment
Platinum     36 30
Coal      32 24
Base Metals     77 53
Ferrous Metals and Industries     12 9
Gold      – 16
       157 132
6. Employee numbers and costs
The average number of employees, excluding associates’ employees and including 
a proportionate share of employees within joint venture entities, for continuing 
operations was:
Thousands     2007 2006
(1)
By business segment      
Platinum     53 44
Coal      12 10
Base Metals     10 8
Ferrous Metals and Industries     13 37
Industrial Minerals     11 13
Corporate Activities     1 1
Continuing operations     100 113
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations. Amounts 
relating to discontinued operations are disclosed in note 33. Average number of employees, excluding 
associates’ employees and including a proportionate share of employees within joint venture entities, 
for continuing and discontinued operations was 116,000 (2006: 162,000). 
The average number of employees for continuing operations by principal location 
of employment was:
Thousands     2007 2006
(1)
South Africa     76 77
Rest of Africa     1 14
Europe     11 12
North America     1 –
South America     7 6
Australia and Asia     4 4
Continuing operations     100 113
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations.   
Payroll costs in respect of the employees included in the tables above were:
US$ million     2007 2006
(1)
Wages and salaries     3,145 2,955
Social security costs     158 142
Post retirement healthcare costs     13 6
Defined contribution pension plan costs    180 170
Defined benefit pension plan costs     57 56
Share-based payments     138 182
Continuing operations     3,691 3,511
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations. Amounts 
relating to discontinued operations are disclosed in note 33. Total payroll costs, including discontinued 
operations, were $4,266 million (2006: $4,860 million). 
In accordance with IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, key management personnel 
are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly, including any director 
(executive and non-executive) of the Group.
Compensation for key management was as follows:
US$ million     2007 2006
Salaries and short term employee benefits    28 19 
Post employment benefits     4 7 
Termination benefits     4 – 
National insurance and social security    6 3 
Share-based payments     9 10 
Continuing operations     51 39 
 
Key management includes members of the Board, the Chief Executive’s Committee 
(CeCom) and business unit heads. 101 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
7 . Special items and remeasurements continued
Profits and (losses) on disposals
US$ million     2007 2006
Part disposal of Exxaro (formerly Kumba Resources)   234 –
Disposal of remaining interest in Highveld
(1)
    140 301
Part disposal of AngloGold Ashanti     67 –
Tongaat-Hulett and Hulamin BBBEE transactions
(1)
   (68) –
Tarmac land sales     25 –
Disposal of Boschendal Phase II     21 –
Part disposal of Kumba non-iron ore
(1)
    – (52)
Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela BEE transaction
(1)
    – (84)
Part disposal of Western Areas     – 31
Disposal of mineral rights – Anglo American Brazil   – 14
Disposal of interests in Eyesizwe     – 17
Disposal of Ferroveld joint venture     – 13
Other     41 25
Net profit on disposals – continuing operations
(2)
   460 265
Tax      (71) (8)
Minority interests     34 7
Net total attributable to equity shareholders of the Company  
– continuing operations     423 264
 
(1)
 See Disposals and demerger of subsidiaries and businesses note 35.
(2)
  Includes associated IFRS 2 charges on BBBEE and BEE transactions of $68 million (2006: $34 million). 
In April 2007, the Group sold 19.0 million shares in Exxaro, generating a profit 
on disposal of $68 million. A number of the shares sold were subject to an option 
granted by the Group to Exxaro, whereby Exxaro could buy back 10.0 million shares 
at a discount to market value. The remaining shares were sold at a market related 
price. On 5 and 6 September 2007, the Group sold a further 29.5 million shares, 
generating a total profit on disposal of Exxaro shares for the year of $234 million.
In May 2007, the Group disposed of the remaining 29.2% shareholding in Highveld 
to the Evraz Group SA for $238 million. As such the Group has recorded a profit 
on disposal of $140 million.
On 25 October 2007, the Group sold 2.0 million shares in AngloGold Ashanti, 
generating a profit on disposal of $67 million. At 31 December 2007, the Group’s 
shareholding in AngloGold Ashanti was 16.6%. Details of the sale of AngloGold 
Ashanti shares on 2 October 2007 (which reduced the Group’s shareholding in 
AngloGold Ashanti from 41.6% to 17.3%) are included in note 35.
The introduction of broad based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) credentials 
into the Tongaat-Hulett Group and Hulamin resulted in the recognition of a 
$68 million associated share-based payment charge which arose on the transaction.
Financing special items
US$ million     2007 2006
Financing special items     – (4)
Net total attributable to equity shareholders of the Company  
– continuing operations     – (4)
 
Financing remeasurements
US$ million     2007 2006
Foreign exchange (loss)/gain on De Beers preference shares  (3) 40
Unrealised net gains on non-hedge derivatives    32 3
Total financing remeasurements – continuing operations  29 43
Tax      (5) –
Net total attributable to equity shareholders of the Company  
– continuing operations     24 43
The Group holds US dollar preference shares issued by De Beers which are held in a 
rand functional currency subsidiary of the Group. These shares are classified as financial 
asset investments and are retranslated at each period end. As a result, a loss of 
$3 million (2006: $40 million gain) has been included in financing remeasurements.
Total special items and remeasurements – continuing operations
US$ million     2007 2006
Total special items and remeasurements before 
tax and minority interests – continuing operations   243 (102)
Tax      (17) 80
Minority interests     34 8
Net total special items and remeasurements attributable  
to equity shareholders of the Company – continuing operations  260 (14)
Associates’ special items and remeasurements
Associates’ operating special items and remeasurements
 
US$ million     2007 2006
Impairment of De Beers’ Canadian assets    (434) –
Share of De Beers’ restructuring costs    (15) –
Share of De Beers’ class action payment and related costs  (5) (25)
Unrealised net (losses)/gains on non-hedge derivatives   (3) 17
Other impairments     (8) (9)
Total operating special items and remeasurements – 
continuing operations     (465) (17)
In accordance with an amended valuation methodology, De Beers now conducts 
impairment reviews at a producing country level. This has been necessitated by 
changes in the distribution model whereby a proportion of De Beers’ sales are now 
conducted in those producing countries.
Due to a combination of the strengthening of the Canadian dollar against the US 
dollar during 2007, revised long term crude oil prices, labour cost pressures and the 
effect of previously reported capital expenditure overruns at Snap Lake, De Beers has 
recorded an impairment of $965 million (attributable share $434 million) in respect 
of its Canadian asset portfolio. The impairment brings the carrying value of the 
Canadian asset portfolio in line with fair value (less costs to sell), determined using 
discounted cash flow techniques. 
Associates’ profits on disposals
US$ million     2007 2006
Disposal of interests in Acerinox     12 –
Disposal of interest in Gope Exploration Company   8 –
Gain on partial sale of De Beers Consolidated Mines   – 103
Disposal of Fort à la Corne     – 69
Other     4 10
Net profit on disposals – continuing operations   24 182
 
During the year Samancor Holdings disposed of its shareholding in Acerinox, 
generating a gain of $12 million. On 16 April 2007, De Beers concluded an 
agreement of sale in respect of its interest in Gope Exploration Company which 
resulted in a profit on disposal of $17 million (attributable share $8 million).
Associates’ financing remeasurements
US$ million     2007 2006
Unrealised net (losses)/gains on non-hedge derivatives   (4) 1
Total financing remeasurements – continuing operations  (4) 1
Total associates’ special items and remeasurements – continuing operations
US$ million     2007 2006
Total associates’ special items and remeasurements before  
tax and minority interests – continuing operations   (445) 166
Tax      2 (22)
Net total associates’ special items and remeasurements 
– continuing operations     (443) 144
Operating special items and remeasurements – continuing operations
US$ million     2007 2006
Operating special items     (251) (424)
Operating remeasurements     5 18
Total operating special items and remeasurements 
(excluding associates) – continuing operations    (246) (406)
Associates’ operating special items     (462) (34)
Associates’ operating remeasurements    (3) 17
Total associates’ operating special items and remeasurements 
– continuing operations     (465) (17)
Total operating special items and remeasurements 
(including associates) – continuing operations   (711) (423)
Operating special items (including associates)    (713) (458)
Operating remeasurements (including associates)   2 35
Total operating special items and remeasurements 
(including associates) – continuing operations   (711) (423)
 
The above tables relate to continuing operations only. Refer to note 33 for an 
analysis of special items and remeasurements for discontinued operations.  Notes to the financial statements continued
102 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
8. Net finance costs
Finance costs and exchange gains/(losses) are presented net of effective cash flow 
hedges for respective interest bearing and foreign currency borrowings. Fair value 
gains/(losses) on derivatives, presented below, include the mark to market value 
changes of interest rate and currency derivatives designated as fair value hedges,  
net of fair value changes in the associated hedged risk; and fair value changes of 
non-hedge derivatives of non-operating items.
     Before special After special Before special After special 
     items and items and items and items and 
     remeasurements remeasurements remeasurements remeasurements
US$ million   2007 2007 2006
(1) 
2006
(1)
Investment income
Interest and other  
financial income   323 323 266 266
Expected return on defined  
benefit arrangements  257 257 234 234
Foreign exchange gains  68 68 38 78
Dividend income from  
financial asset investments  36 36 13 13
Fair value gains on derivatives – 34 – 10
Other fair value gains   – 24 8 8
Total investment income  
– continuing operations  684 742 559 609
Interest expense
Amortisation discount  
relating to provisions  (36) (36) (30) (30)
Interest and other  
finance expense  (565) (565) (378) (378)
Unwinding of discount on  
convertible bonds   – – (4) (4)
Interest on defined benefit  
arrangements   (229) (229) (226) (226)
Foreign exchange losses  (9) (12) (19) (20)
Dividend on redeemable  
preference shares  (9) (9) (22) (22)
Fair value losses on derivatives (1) (22) (2) (8)
Other fair value losses   (14) (19) – (4)
     (863) (892) (681) (692)
Less: interest capitalised  42 42 12 12
Total interest expense  
– continuing operations  (821) (850) (669) (680)
Net finance costs  
– continuing operations  (137) (108) (110) (71)
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations. 
The weighted average interest rate applicable to interest on general borrowings 
capitalised for continuing operations was 11.4% (2006: 7.8%). Financing special 
items and remeasurements are set out in note 7.
9.  Financial instrument gains and losses
The net gains and losses recorded in the Consolidated income statement, for the total 
Group, in respect of financial instruments were as follows:
US$ million     2007 2006
At fair value through profit and loss
 Cash flow hedge derivatives
(1)
     (315) (148)
 Fair value hedge derivatives     (10) (43)
 Fair value hedge underlying instruments    4 39
 Other fair value movements     198 460
Loans and receivables
 Foreign exchange     108 87
 Interest income at amortised cost     308 218
Available for sale
 Net gain transferred on sale     298 27
Other financial liabilities
 Foreign exchange     (152) (210)
 Interest expense at amortised cost     (565) (328)
 
(1)
  Gains and losses on derivative instruments designated in cash flow hedge relationships which have been 
realised in the year have been recorded in Group revenue (2006: Group revenue).
10. Tax on profit on ordinary activities
a) Analysis of charge for the year from continuing operations
US$ million     2007 2006 
(1)
United Kingdom corporation tax at 30%    145 37
South Africa tax     830 878
Other overseas tax     1,258 1,403
Current tax (excluding tax on special items  
and remeasurements)      2,233 2,318
Total deferred tax (excluding tax on special items 
and remeasurements)     443 280
Total tax (excluding tax on special items and remeasurements)  2,676 2,598
Tax on special items and remeasurements    17 (80)
Total tax charge – continuing operations    2,693 2,518
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations. 
b) Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The effective tax rate for the year of 30.5% (2006: 29.8%) is marginally higher than 
the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom (30%). The differences 
are explained below:
US$ million     2007  2006 
(1)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 
– continuing operations     8,821 8,443
Tax on profit on ordinary activities calculated at 
United Kingdom corporation tax rate of 30%    2,646 2,533
Tax effect of share of net income from associates   (59) (182)
Tax effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Operating special items and remeasurements    15 34
Exploration expenditure     19 17
Other non-deductible expenses     85 86
Non-taxable income
Profits and losses on disposals and financing remeasurements  (71) (83)
Other non-taxable income     (41) (48)
Temporary difference adjustments
Changes in tax rates     12 –
Movements in tax losses     13 (86)
Enhanced tax depreciation     (91) –
Other temporary differences     (14) (9)
Other adjustments
South African secondary tax on companies    175 227
Effect of differences between local and UK rates   (48) 69
Other adjustments     52 (40)
Tax charge for the year – continuing operations   2,693 2,518
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations. 
IAS 1 requires income from associates to be presented net of tax on the face of the 
income statement. The associates’ tax is therefore not included within the Group’s 
total tax charge. Associates’ tax included within ‘Share of net income from associates’ 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 is $303 million (2006: $300 million). 
Excluding special items and remeasurements this becomes $305 million 
(2006: $278 million).
The effective rate of tax before special items and remeasurements including share of 
associates’ tax for the year ended 31 December 2007 was 31.8%. This was a decrease 
from the equivalent effective rate of 33.0% in the year ended 31 December 2006. 
The main reasons for this net decrease are reduced levels of tax on distributions, 
changes in statutory tax rates, prior year adjustments and the availability of enhanced 
tax depreciation on certain assets. In future periods it is expected that the effective tax 
rate, including associates’ tax, will remain at or above the UK statutory tax rate. 103 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
11. Dividends
US$ million     2007 2006
Final ordinary paid – 75 US cents per ordinary share 
(2006: 62 US cents)     1,058 918
Final special paid – nil (2006: 33 US cents)    – 488
Interim ordinary paid – 38 US cents per ordinary share 
(2006: 33 US cents)     469 473
Interim dividend paid – in specie
(1)
     3,718 –
Interim special paid – nil (2006: 67 US cents)    – 960
       5,245 2,839
 
(1)
  In specie dividend relates to the Mondi demerger. See Disposals and demerger of subsidiaries and 
businesses note 35. 
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ending 
31 December 2007 of 86 US cents per share. Based on shares eligible for dividends 
at 31 December 2007, this will result in an estimated distribution of $1,031 million of 
shareholders’ funds. These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable as 
it is still subject to shareholder approval. 
As stated in note 29, the employee benefit trust has waived the right to receive 
dividends on the shares it holds although the waiver was temporarily suspended in 
respect of the Mondi demerger dividend in specie. Immediately after the dividend was 
paid, the waiver was reinstated.
12. Earnings per share
      2007   2006
   Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total 
US$  operations operations Group operations operations Group
Profit for the financial year  
attributable to equity  
shareholders of the Company   
Basic earnings per share 4.04 1.54 5.58 3.51 0.70 4.21
Diluted earnings per share  3.99 1.51 5.50 3.43 0.69 4.12
Headline earnings for the  
financial year
(1)
      
Basic earnings per share  4.10 0.08 4.18 3.42 0.15 3.57
(2)
Diluted earnings per share  4.04 0.08 4.12 3.34 0.15 3.49
(2)
Underlying earnings for the  
financial year
(1)
Basic earnings per share  4.18 0.22 4.40 3.42 0.31 3.73
Diluted earnings per share  4.13 0.21 4.34 3.34 0.30 3.64
 
(1)
  Basic and diluted earnings per share are shown based on headline earnings, a Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange Limited defined performance measure, and underlying earnings, which the directors believe 
to be a useful additional measure of the Group’s performance. Both earnings measures are further 
explained below.
(2)
 Comparatives have been adjusted to comply with revised guidance on headline earnings. 
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
     2007   2006
US$ million Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total 
(unless otherwise stated) operations operations Group operations operations Group
Earnings
Basic earnings, being profit  
for the financial year  
attributable to equity  
shareholders of the Company 5,294 2,010 7,304 5,149 1,037 6,186
Effect of dilutive potential  
ordinary shares     
 Interest on convertible  
 bonds (net of tax) – – – 4 – 4
 Unwinding of discount  
 on convertible bonds  
 (net of tax) – – – 3 – 3
Diluted earnings 5,294 2,010 7,304 5,156 1,037 6,193
Number of shares (million)
Basic number of ordinary  
shares outstanding
(1)
   1,309   1,468
Effect of dilutive potential 
ordinary shares
(2)
 Share options   18   23
 Convertible bonds   –   13
Diluted number of ordinary  
shares outstanding
(1)
   1,327   1,504
 
(1)
  Basic and diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding represent the weighted average for the year. 
The average number of ordinary shares in issue excludes the shares held by the employee benefit trusts 
and other Anglo American shares held by the Group.
(2)
  Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares. All outstanding share 
options and awards are potentially dilutive and have been included in the calculation of diluted earnings 
per share. No instruments are anti-dilutive for the year ended 31 December 2007 (2006: nil).
The weighted average number of ordinary shares, and accordingly earnings per share, 
of the Group have been impacted by the effect of the share buyback programme 
as well as the Anglo American share consolidation which on 2 July 2007 resulted 
in 100 existing Anglo American ordinary shares being exchanged for 91 new Anglo 
American ordinary shares.
‘Underlying earnings’ is an alternative earnings measure, which the directors believe 
provides a clearer picture of the underlying financial performance of the Group’s 
operations. Underlying earnings is presented after minority interests and excludes 
special items and remeasurements (see note 7). Underlying earnings is distinct 
from ‘Headline earnings’, which is a Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited defined 
performance measure.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for continuing operations, 
based on headline and underlying earnings for continuing operations, uses the 
following earnings data:
     Earnings Basic earnings  
     (US$ million) per share (US$)
Continuing operations   2007 2006
(1)
 2007 2006
(1)
Profit for the financial year attributable 
to equity shareholders of the Company –  
continuing operations   5,294 5,149 4.04 3.51
Operating special items   196 409 0.15 0.28
Operating special items – tax   (54) (86) (0.04) (0.06)
Operating special items – minority interests  – (1) – –
Financing special items   – 4 – – 
Net profit on disposals
(2)
   (528) (299) (0.40) (0.20)
Net profit on disposals – tax   71 8 0.05 –
Net profit on disposals – minority interests  (34) (7) (0.02) –
Associates’ special items   418 (182) 0.32 (0.12)
Associates’ special items – tax   – 22 – 0.01
Headline earnings for the financial year  
– continuing operations   5,363 5,017 4.10 3.42
Operating special items
(3)
   55 15 0.04 0.01
Operating special items – tax   (6) (2) – –
Operating remeasurements   (5) (18) – (0.01)
Operating remeasurements – tax   1 – – –
Financing remeasurements   (29) (43) (0.02) (0.03)
Financing remeasurements – tax   5 – – –
Associates’ remeasurements   7 (18) – (0.01)
Associates’ special items
(4)
   20 34 0.01 0.02
Associates’ special items – tax   (2) – – –
IFRS 2 charges on BBBEE and BEE transactions  68 34 0.05 0.02
Underlying earnings for the financial year  
– continuing operations   5,477 5,019 4.18 3.42
 
 
(1)
 Comparatives have been reclassified to comply with revised guidance on headline earnings.
(2)
  Excluding associated IFRS 2 charges on BBBEE and BEE transactions.
(3)
 Includes costs associated with proposed sale of Tarmac and restructuring costs.
(4)
 Includes restructuring costs and legal settlements.  Notes to the financial statements continued
104 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
12. Earnings per share continued
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for discontinued operations, 
based on headline and underlying earnings for discontinued operations, uses the 
following earnings data:
     Earnings Basic earnings  
     (US$ million) per share (US$)
Discontinued operations   2007 2006 2007 2006
Profit for the financial year attributable
to equity shareholders of the Company –  
discontinued operations   2,010 1,037 1.54 0.70
Operating special items   13 100 0.01 0.07
Operating special items – tax   (2) (26) – (0.02)
Operating special items – minority interests  – (1) – –
Financing special items   2 – – – 
Financing special items – tax   (8) – (0.01) –
Net profit on disposals   (2,079) (903) (1.59) (0.62)
Net profit on disposals – tax   165 24 0.13 0.02
Associates’ special items   1 (13) – – 
Associates’ special items – tax   2 3 – –
Headline earnings for the financial year  
– discontinued operations   104 221 0.08 0.15
Operating remeasurements   (3) 362 – 0.25
Operating remeasurements – tax   1 (42) – (0.03)
Operating remeasurements – minority interests – (159) – (0.11)
Financing remeasurements   (2) 39 – 0.03
Financing remeasurements – tax   – 1 – –
Financing remeasurements – minority interests  – (21) – (0.01)
Associates’ remeasurements   204 77 0.16 0.05
Associates’ remeasurements – tax   (20) (26) (0.02) (0.02)
Underlying earnings for the financial year  
– discontinued operations   284 452 0.22 0.31
13. Intangible assets
     2007   2006
   Licences    Licences   
   and other    and other   
US$ million intangibles Goodwill
(1)
 Total intangibles Goodwill
(1)
 Total
Cost
At 1 January 88 2,101 2,189 139 2,514 2,653
Acquired through business 
combinations – 51 51
 
4 41 45
Additions 3 6 9 9 – 9
Impairments – – – – (21) (21)
Transfer to assets held for sale – – – (13) (6) (19)
Disposal of assets – (2) (2) (1) – (1)
Disposal and demerger  
of businesses
(2)
 (78) (633) (711) (49) (562) (611)
Reclassifications – – – 3 (8) (5)
Currency movements 2 23 25 (4) 143 139
At 31 December 15 1,546 1,561 88 2,101 2,189
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 55 – 55 81 – 81
Charge for the year
(3)
 5 – 5 7 – 7
Transfer to assets held for sale – – – (3) – (3)
Disposal and demerger  
of businesses
(2)
 (57) – (57) (24) – (24)
Currency movements 2 – 2 (6) – (6)
At 31 December 5 – 5 55 – 55
Net book value 10 1,546 1,556 33 2,101 2,134
 
(1)
  The goodwill balances provided are net of cumulative impairment charges of $45 million as at  
31 December 2007 (2006: $45 million).
(2)
  Includes cost of $711 million and accumulated amortisation of $55 million relating to the demerger 
of Mondi in 2007. Includes cost of $604 million and accumulated amortisation of $24 million which 
were transferred to ‘Investments in associates’ in 2006.
(3)
  Includes amounts in respect of discontinued operations of $3 million (2006: $6 million). 
The increase in goodwill relating to acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess 
of fair value of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets, including 
mining reserves, of businesses acquired. Further detail is given in note 34.
a) Impairment tests for goodwill
Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash generating units (CGU) 
which reflect how it is monitored for internal management purposes. This allocation 
largely represents the Group’s primary reporting segments set out below. Any goodwill 
associated with CGU subsumed within these primary segments is not significant when 
compared to the goodwill of the Group, other than in Paper and Packaging where the 
goodwill associated with CGU subsumed within the primary segment is split out below.
US$ million     2007 2006
Platinum     230 230
Coal      88 88
Base Metals     162 157
Ferrous Metals and Industries     75 16
Industrial Minerals     991 970
Paper and Packaging      
  Mondi Business Paper     – 49
  Mondi Packaging     – 552
  Mondi – other     – 39
       1,546 2,101
 
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on a fair value or value in use 
calculation as appropriate. Value in use calculations use cash flow projections based on 
financial budgets and life of mine or non-mine production plans covering a five year period 
that are based on latest forecasts for commodity prices and exchange rates. Cash flow 
projections beyond five years are based on life of mine plans where applicable and internal 
management forecasts and assume constant long term real prices for sales revenue. 
Cash flow projections are discounted using pre-tax discount rates equivalent to a 
real post tax discount rate of 6%, that have been adjusted for any risks that are not 
reflected in the underlying cash flows. Where the recoverability of goodwill allocated 
to CGU is supported by fair value less costs to sell, market observable data (in the 
case of listed subsidiaries, market share price at 31 December of the respective listed 
entity) or detailed cash flow models are used.
Expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain and could materially change over 
time. They are significantly affected by a number of factors including reserves and 
production estimates, together with economic factors such as commodity prices, 
discount rates, currency exchange rates, estimates of costs to produce reserves 
and future capital expenditure. Management believes that any reasonably possible 
change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amount is based would not 
cause the carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
14. Tangible assets
    Mining      
    properties  Land and Plant and   
US$ million  and leases buildings equipment Other
(1)
 Total
Cost       
At 1 January 2007  9,250 3,833 19,400 3,481 35,964
Additions  98 56 379 3,596 4,129
Acquired through business
combinations  2,855 21 53 34 2,963
Transfer to assets held for sale  (89) (19) (67) (152) (327)
Disposal of assets  (12) (29) (273) (20) (334)
Disposal and demerger of businesses
(2)
 – (1,836) (8,003) (692) (10,531)
Reclassifications
(3)
  228 116 817 (1,094) 67
Currency movements  322 114 596 210 1,242
At 31 December 2007  12,652 2,256 12,902 5,363 33,173
Accumulated depreciation      
At 1 January 2007  2,136 1,151 8,901 278 12,466
Charge for the year 
(4)
  323 114 1,139 51 1,627
Impairments
(5)
  162 2 31 8 203
Transfer to assets held for sale  (30) (10) (33) (2) (75)
Disposal of assets  (7) (13) (245) (18) (283)
Disposal and demerger of businesses
(2)
 – (627) (3,948) (153) (4,728)
Reclassifications  – – (23) 23 –
Currency movements  68 36  304 21 429
At 31 December 2007  2,652 653 6,126 208 9,639
Net book value
At 31 December 2007  10,000 1,603 6,776 5,155 23,534
At 31 December 2006  7,114 2,682 10,499 3,203 23,498 
 
(1)
  Other tangible assets include $4,850 million (2006: $3,002 million) of assets in the course of 
construction, which are not depreciated.
(2)
  Includes cost of $9,242 million and accumulated depreciation of $4,381 million relating to the demerger 
of Mondi.
(3)
  Relates mainly to amounts transferred from assets in the course of construction and reclassification of 
asset values upon finalisation of Peace River Coal acquisition accounting.
(4) 
Includes amounts in respect of discontinued operations of $231 million.
(5)
  Includes amounts in respect of discontinued operations of $5 million. 105 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
14. Tangible assets continued
    Mining      
    properties  Land and Plant and   
US$ million  and leases buildings equipment Other
(1)
 Total
Cost       
At 1 January 2006  18,942 3,955 18,607 2,595 44,099
Additions  292 83 648 2,679 3,702
Acquired through business 
combinations  2 46 157 52 257
Transfer to assets held for sale  (498) (221) (1,180) (237) (2,136)
Disposal of assets  (28) (34) (301) (124) (487)
Disposal of businesses
(2)
  (9,672) (52) (64) (1) (9,789)
Reclassifications  294 (76) 1,243 (1,428) 33
Currency movements  (82) 132 290 (55) 285
At 31 December 2006  9,250 3,833 19,400 3,481 35,964
Accumulated depreciation      
At 1 January 2006  4,542 935 7,582 244 13,303
Charge for the year
(3)
  507 140 1,288 94 2,029
Impairments
(4)
  133 115 214 17 479
Transfer to assets held for sale  (76) (41) (177) 5 (289)
Disposal of assets  (12) (25) (257) (60) (354)
Disposal of businesses
(2)
  (3,038) (7) (33) (1) (3,079)
Reclassifications  48 (23) 1 (26) –
Currency movements  32 57 283 5 377
At 31 December 2006  2,136 1,151 8,901 278 12,466
Net book value      
At 31 December 2006  7,114 2,682 10,499 3,203 23,498
At 31 December 2005  14,400 3,020 11,025 2,351 30,796 
 
(1)
  Other tangible assets include $3,002 million of properties in the course of construction, which are not 
depreciated.
(2)
  Includes cost of $9,085 million and accumulated depreciation of $3,012 million which were transferred 
to ‘Investments in associates’.
(3)
  Includes amounts in respect of discontinued operations of $616 million.
(4)
  Includes amounts in respect of discontinued operations of $104 million. 
Included in the additions above is $42 million of interest (2006: $16 million) incurred  
on qualifying assets which has been capitalised during the year. Aggregate interest 
capitalised included in the cost above totals $138 million (2006: $277 million). 
The net book value and depreciation charges relating to assets held under finance 
leases comprise:
     2007   2006
   Net book   Net book   
US$ million value  Depreciation value  Depreciation
Mining properties and leases 18  2 19  2 
Land and buildings 44  13 61  6
Plant and equipment 17  3 51  6
Other 1  – 1  – 
   80  18 132  14
 
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:
US$ million     2007 2006
Freehold     1,536 2,619
Leasehold – long     51 60
Leasehold – short (less than 50 years)    16 3
       1,603 2,682
15. Biological assets
     2007   2006
US$ million Forest Agriculture Total Forest Agriculture Total
At 1 January 291 33 324 317 33 350
Capitalised expenditure 26 11 37 63 1 64
Harvesting (35) (1) (36) (72) – (72)
Fair value adjustments
(1)
  17 16 33 47 7 54
Disposal of assets – – – (1) (1) (2)
Disposal and demerger  
of businesses (297) (55) (352) (18) (2) (20)
Transfer to assets held for sale – – – (16) – (16) 
Currency movements (2) (1) (3) (29) (5) (34)
At 31 December – 3 3 291 33 324
 
(1)
 Includes amounts in respect of forest assets for discontinued operations of $17 million (2006: $47 
million).
Biological assets comprise:
     2007   2006
US$ million Forest Agriculture Total Forest Agriculture Total
Mature – 2 2 137 16 153
Immature – 1 1 154 17 171
   – 3 3 291 33 324
16. Environmental rehabilitation trusts
The Group makes voluntary contributions to controlled funds that were established  
to meet the cost of some of its decommissioning, restoration and environmental 
rehabilitation liabilities in South Africa. 
US$ million     2007 2006
At 1 January     197 288
Contributions made     37 26
Interest earned     12 26
Disposal and demerger of businesses
(1)
    – (101)
Transfer to assets held for sale     (2) (28)
Currency movements     8 (14)
At 31 December     252 197
 
(1)
  Relates entirely to amounts transferred to ‘Investments in associates’. 
The funds comprise the following investments:
US$ million     2007 2006
Equity     19 16
Bonds     85 51
Cash     148 130
       252 197
 
These assets are primarily rand denominated. Cash is held in short term fixed 
deposits or earns interest at floating inter-bank rates and bonds earn interest at a 
weighted average fixed rate of 11% (2006: 11%) and are fixed for an average period 
of 9.5 years (2006: 9.0 years). These assets are recorded ‘at fair value through 
profit and loss’.
These funds are not available for the general purposes of the Group. All income 
from these assets is reinvested to meet specific environmental obligations. These 
obligations are included in environmental rehabilitation costs under non-current 
provisions (see note 26). 
17 . Investments in associates
US$ million      2007 2006
At 1 January     4,780 3,165
Net income from associates
(1)
     107 685
Dividends received
(2)
     (327) (276)
Other equity movements     31 (23)
Share of cash injection from associates’ share issues   – 225
Transfer to assets held for sale     (74) (64)
Transfer to financial asset investments    (606) –
Movement on cash flow hedge reserves    12 (24)
Movement on available for sale reserves    10 –
Reversal of impairment     1 –
Actuarial (loss)/gain on post retirement benefits   (6) 3
Acquired      2 11
Disposed      (957) (40)
Other capital distributions     (32) –
Transfer from subsidiary     393 1,451
Repayments of capitalised loans
(3) 
    (44) (219)
Currency movements     51 (114)
At 31 December
(4)
     3,341 4,780
 
(1)
  Includes loss in respect of discontinued operations of $90 million (2006: $78 million profit).
(2)
 Dividends received include $52 million (2006: $35 million) relating to discontinued operations.
(3)
  Excludes the $43 million (2006: $175 million) redemption by De Beers of preference shares included 
within financial asset investments.
(4)
  The fair value of the investments in Tongaat-Hulett and Hulamin at 31 December 2007 are $667 million 
and $292 million respectively based on the closing share prices. With effect from 30 June 2007 the 
Group began accounting for these investments as associates under the equity method. The fair value 
of the investment in AngloGold Ashanti at 31 December 2006 was $5,420 million based on the closing 
share price. With effect from 2 October 2007 it was transferred to a financial asset investment.   106 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
17 . Investments in associates continued
The Group’s total investments in associates comprise:
US$ million     2007 2006
Equity
(1)
     2,968 4,369
Loans
(2)
     373 411
Total investments in associates     3,341 4,780
 
(1)
 Investments in associates at 31 December 2007 include $377 million of goodwill (2006: $515 million).
(2)
  The Group’s total investments in associates include long term debt interests which in substance form 
part of the Group’s net investments. These loans are not repayable in the foreseeable future. 
The Group’s share of the summarised financial information of associates is as 
follows:
US$ million     2007 2006
Total non-current assets     5,734 7,919
Total current assets     1,864 2,715
Total current liabilities     (1,254) (1,961)
Total non-current liabilities     (3,003) (3,893)
Group’s share of associates’ net assets    3,341 4,780
Revenue     5,089 4,413
Operating costs     (4,482) (3,590)
Net profit on disposals     24 182
Financing remeasurements     (4) 1
Net finance costs     (85) (70)
Income tax expense     (303) (300)
Minority interests     (42) (29)
Group’s share of associates’ net income – continuing operations  197 607
Revenue     1,053 1,152
Operating costs     (1,072) (1,008)
Net profit on disposals     7 17
Financing remeasurements     13 25
Net finance costs     (30) (31)
Income tax expense     (51) (68)
Minority interests     (10) (9)
Group’s share of associates’ net income – discontinued operations (90) 78
Group’s share of associates’ net income – total Group   107 685
 
Segmental information is provided for primary and secondary reporting segments 
as follows:
        Aggregate 
      Net income  investment
US$ million   2007 2006 2007 2006
By business segment     
Platinum   38 40 57 135
Diamonds   (229) 337 1,802 2,062
Coal    190 185 702 647
Ferrous Metals and Industries   198 44 778 302
Industrial Minerals   – 1 2 2
Total continuing operations    197 607 3,341 3,148
Gold    (92) 72 – 1,623
Paper and Packaging   2 6 – 9
Total discontinued operations    (90) 78 – 1,632
Total Group   107 685 3,341 4,780
 
        Aggregate 
        investment
US$ million     2007 2006
By geographical segment      
South Africa     1,704 1,860
Rest of Africa     677 1,442
Europe     98 (126)
North America     36 549
South America     641 687
Australia and Asia     185 368
       3,341 4,780
 
The Group’s share of associates’ contingent liabilities incurred jointly by investors 
is $190 million (2006: $158 million).
Details of principal associates are set out in note 41.
18. Joint ventures
The Group’s share of the summarised financial information of joint venture entities 
that is proportionately consolidated in the Group financial statements is as follows:
US$ million     2007 2006
Total non-current assets     3,148 1,296
Total current assets     999 455
Total current liabilities     (358) (315)
Total non-current liabilities     (2,862) (681)
Group’s share of joint venture entities’ net assets    927 755
Revenue     1,631 1,640
Operating costs     (601) (643)
Net finance costs     7 (12)
Income tax expense     (189) (187)
Total continuing operations     848 798
Revenue     113 311
Operating costs     (96) (240)
Net finance costs     (4) (10)
Income tax expense     (4) (22)
Total discontinued operations     9 39
Group’s share of joint venture entities’ profit for the financial year 857 837
 
The Group’s share of joint venture entities’ contingent liabilities incurred jointly with 
other venturers is $132 million (2006: nil) and its share of capital commitments 
is $457 million (2006: nil).
Details of principal joint ventures are set out in note 41.
19. Financial asset investments 
 
       Available  
      Loans and  for sale  
US$ million    receivables investments Total
At 1 January 2007    404 1,569 1,973
Additions     – 42 42
Interest receivable    59 – 59
Net advances     53 – 53
Disposals    – (540) (540)
Disposal and demerger of businesses
(1)
   (12) (79) (91)
Transfer from investments in associates   – 606 606
Retained investment in Mondi    – 318 318
Movements in fair value    – 2,326 2,326
Other movements    1 – 1
Reclassifications    410 (395) 15
Currency movements    23 (5) 18
At 31 December 2007
(2)
    938 3,842 4,780
Less: non-current portion    938 3,842 4,780
Current portion    – – –
 
(1) 
See Disposal and demerger of subsidiaries and businesses note 35.
(2)
 Principally includes investments in AngloGold Ashanti, Exxaro and Shenhua Energy.
       Available  
      Loans and  for sale  
US$ million    receivables investments Total
At 1 January 2006    538 377 915
Additions     – 453 453
Impairments    – (13) (13)
Net repayments    (130) – (130)
Disposals    – (88) (88)
Disposal of businesses
(1)   
 (12) (9) (21)
Transfer from subsidiary
(2)
    – 370 370
Transfer to assets held for sale    (15) (36) (51)
Movements in fair value
(3)
    – 492 492
Reclassifications    27 (25) 2
Currency movements    (4) 48 44
At 31 December 2006    404 1,569 1,973
Less: non-current portion    404 1,569 1,973
Current portion    – – –
 
(1) 
Relates entirely to amounts transferred to ‘Investments in associates’.
(2) 
See Disposal and demerger of subsidiaries and businesses note 35.
(3) 
Includes amounts in respect of discontinued operations of $1 million loss. 
No items were classified as ‘at fair value through profit or loss’ or ‘held to maturity’ 
during either period presented.
No provision for impairment is recorded against financial assets classified as loans 
and receivables (2006: nil). 107 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
20. Inventories
 
US$ million     2007 2006
Raw materials and consumables     703 1,032
Work in progress     812 733
Finished products     829 1,209
       2,344 2,974
 
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales 
amounted to $14,585 million (2006: $18,286 million), of which $2,212 million 
(2006: $6,094 million) relates to discontinued operations.
Inventories held at net realisable value amounted to $167 million (2006: $91 million).
21. Trade and other receivables
 
     2007   2006
   Due within  Due after  Due within Due after  
US$ million one year  one year Total one year one year Total
Trade receivables 3,000 30 3,030 4,341 18 4,359
Amounts owed by 
related parties 16 – 16 14 – 14
Other receivables 420 125 545 714 110 824
Prepayments and
accrued income 136 4 140 93 22 115
   3,572 159 3,731 5,162 150 5,312
 
The historical level of customer default is minimal and as a result the ‘credit quality’ 
of year end trade receivables which are not past due is considered to be high. Of 
the year end trade receivables balance the following were past due at 31 December 
(stated after associated impairment provision):
US$ million     2007
(1)
 2006
Less than 1 month     344 329
Between 1 - 2 months     54 71
Between 2 - 3 months     16 43
Greater than 3 months     35 45
       449  488
 
(1)
  Approximately 50% of this balance is covered by insurance contracts which will guarantee receipt 
of 90% of amounts subject to default. 
The overdue debtor ageing profile above is typical of the industry in which certain 
of our businesses operate. Given this, existing insurance cover, and the nature of the 
related counterparties these amounts are considered recoverable.
Total trade receivables are stated net of the following impairment provision:
        US$ million
At 1 January 2006      63
Charge for the year      9
Acquired through business combinations     1
Disposal of businesses      (2)
Uncollectible amounts written off, net of recoveries    (1)
Currency movements      5
At 1 January 2007      75
Charge for the year      10
Release of provision      (7)
Disposal and demerger of businesses      (56)
Uncollectible amounts written off, net of recoveries    (3)
Currency movements      3
At 31 December 2007      22
 
22. Trade and other payables
 
US$ million     2007 2006
Trade payables     2,546 3,263
Tax and social security     115 51
Other payables     868 1,257
Accruals and deferred income     421 469
       3,950 5,040
 
23. Financial assets
The carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets are as follows:
      2007  2006
     Estimated  Carrying Estimated Carrying 
US$ million   fair value value fair value value
At fair value through profit and loss
 Trade and other receivables
(1)
   591 591 424 424
 Other financial assets (derivatives)
(2)
  535 535 329 329
Designated into fair value hedge
 Trade and other receivables
(1)
   14 14 – –
Loans and receivables      
 Cash and cash equivalents   3,129 3,129 3,004 3,004
 Trade and other receivables
(1)
   2,986 2,986 4,773 4,773
 Financial asset investments   918 938 408 404
Available for sale investments 
 Financial asset investments   3,842 3,842 1,569 1,569
Total financial assets   12,015 12,035 10,507 10,503
 
(1)
  Trade and other receivables exclude prepayments.
(2)
  Derivative instruments are analysed between those which are ‘Held for trading’ and those designated 
into hedge relationships in note 25. 
The fair values of financial assets represent the market value of quoted investments 
and other traded instruments. For non-listed investments and other non-traded 
financial assets fair value is calculated using discounted cash flows with market 
assumptions, unless carrying value is considered to approximate fair value.
Financial asset risk exposures are set out in note 25.
24. Financial liabilities
The carrying amounts and fair values of financial liabilities are as follows:
      2007  2006
     Estimated  Carrying Estimated  Carrying 
US$ million   fair value value fair value value
At fair value through profit and loss
 Trade and other payables
(1)
   331 331 197 197
 Other financial liabilities (derivatives)
(2)
  586 586 520 520
Designated into fair value hedge
 Trade and other payables
(1)
   12 12 – –
 Borrowings   2,433 2,433 2,320 2,320
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
 Trade and other payables
(1)
   3,480 3,480 4,789 4,789
 Borrowings   5,874 5,866 3,942 3,928
Total financial liabilities   12,716 12,708 11,768 11,754
 
(1)
  Trade and other payables exclude tax and social security and deferred income. 
(2)
  Derivative instruments are analysed between those which are ‘Held for trading’ and those designated 
into hedge relationships in note 25. 
The fair value of financial liabilities is determined by reference to quoted market 
prices for similar issues, where applicable, otherwise the carrying value approximates 
to the fair value.
Financial liability risk exposures are set out in note 25. Notes to the financial statements continued
108 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
24. Financial liabilities continued
An analysis of borrowings is set out below:
     2007   2006
   Due within  Due after  Due within Due after  
US$ million one year  one year Total one year one year Total
Secured
(1)
Bank loans and overdrafts 146 544 690 121 300 421
Obligations under  
finance leases
(2)
 2 76 78 1 72 73
Other loans – 29 29 – 93 93
   148 649 797 122 465 587
Unsecured
Bonds issued under  
EMTN programme
(3)
 1,461 800 2,261 25 2,080 2,105
Bank loans and  
overdrafts 2,383 482 2,865 1,843 1,170 3,013
Commercial paper 1,895 – 1,895 10 – 10
Obligations under  
finance leases
(2)
 3 6 9 4 22 26
Other loans 5 467 472 24 483 507
   5,747 1,755 7,502 1,906 3,755 5,661
Total 5,895 2,404 8,299 2,028 4,220 6,248
 
(1)
  Assets with a book value of $711 million (2006: $960 million) have been pledged as security, of which 
$431 million (2006: $421 million) are tangible assets, $149 million (2006: $385 million) are financial 
assets and $139 million (2006: $86 million) are inventories.
(2)
  The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
US$ million     2007 2006
Not later than one year     13 13
Later than one year but not more than five  years    42 40
More than five years     116 120
      171 173
Future finance charges on finance leases     (84) (74)
Present value of finance lease liabilities     87 99
 
(3)
  The Group issued $9 million of bonds under the EMTN programme in 2007 (2006: nil). All notes are 
guaranteed by Anglo American plc.
25.  Financial risk management and derivative financial assets/liabilities 
The Group is exposed in varying degrees to a variety of financial instrument related 
risks. The Board has approved and monitors the risk management processes, 
inclusive of documented treasury policies, counterparty limits, controlling and 
reporting structures. The risk management processes of the Group’s independently 
listed subsidiaries are in line with the Group’s own policy.
The types of risk exposure, the way in which such exposure is managed and 
quantification of the level of exposure in the balance sheet at year end is provided 
as follows (subcategorised into credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk).
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other 
receivables and investments. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its 
trade receivables however it also arises on liquid funds and derivative financial 
instruments. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2007 
is $8,205 million (2006: $8,937 million). 
The Group limits exposure to credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial 
instruments through adherence to a policy of:
•  Acceptable minimum counterparty credit ratings assigned by international 
credit-rating agencies (including long term ratings of A- (Standard & Poor’s), 
A3 (Moody’s) or A- (Fitch) or better).
•  Daily counterparty settlement limits (which are not to exceed three times the credit 
limit for an individual bank).
•  Exposure diversification (the aggregate group exposure to key relationship 
counterparties can not exceed 5% of the counterparty’s shareholders’ equity). 
Given the diverse nature of the Group’s operations (both in relation to commodity 
markets and geographically) it does not have significant concentration of credit risk in 
respect of trade receivables, with exposure spread over a large number of customers.
An allowance for impairment for trade receivables is made where there is an 
identified loss event, which based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction 
in the recoverability of the cash flows. Detail of the credit quality of trade receivables 
and the associated provision for impairment is disclosed in note 21.
Liquidity risk
The Group ensures that there are sufficient committed loan facilities in order to 
meet short term business requirements, after taking into account cash flows from 
operations and its holding of cash and cash equivalents, as well as any group 
distribution restrictions that exist.
Non-wholly owned subsidiaries in general will arrange and maintain their own 
financing and funding requirements. In most cases the financing will be non-recourse 
to the Group. In addition, certain projects are financed by means of limited recourse 
project finance, if appropriate.
The expected undiscounted cash flow of the Group’s financial liabilities (including 
associated derivatives), by remaining contractual maturity, at the balance sheet date 
is as follows:
   Within 1 year  1-2 years
 Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital 
US$ million interest interest repayment interest interest repayment
31 December 2007
Non-derivative financial 
liabilities (144) (188) (9,643) (87) (95) (440)
Gross settled derivatives      
 Receive leg – – 7 – – –
 Pay leg – – (1) – – – 
Net settled derivatives  102 (118) 291 52 (53) (9)
  (42) (306) (9,346) (35) (148) (449)
31 December 2006
Non-derivative financial  
liabilities (145) (170) (6,962) (142) (112) (1,655)
Gross settled derivatives
 Receive leg – – 4 – – –
 Pay leg – – (6) – – –
Net settled derivatives  120 (147) (6) 120 (118) 145
  (25) (317) (6,970) (22) (230) (1,510)
 
   2-5 years  +5 years
 Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital 
US$ million interest interest repayment interest interest repayment
31 December 2007
Non-derivative financial  
liabilities (177) (220) (1,158) (47) (171) (776)
Gross settled derivatives 
 Receive leg – – – – – –
 Pay leg – – – – – – 
Net settled derivatives  130 (133) 112 35 (35) –
  (47) (353) (1,046) (12) (206) (776)
31 December 2006
Non-derivative financial  
liabilities (225) (167) (1,809) (117) (51) (858)
Gross settled derivatives
 Receive leg – – – – – –
 Pay leg – – – – – –
Net settled derivatives  171 (177) 78 68 (66) –
  (54) (344) (1,731) (49) (117) (858)
 
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December:
 
US$ million     2007 2006
Expiry date  
In one year or less    2,877 3,345
In more than one year but not more than two years   322 80
In more than two years but not more than five years   3,865 2,408
In more than five years     – 119
      7,064 5,952 
  109 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
25.  Financial risk management and derivative financial assets/liabilities 
continued 
In addition, the Group had the following Commercial Paper programmes:
•  A $2 billion Canadian Commercial Paper Programme on which total drawings 
of $805 million were made at 31 December 2007 (2006: nil).
•  A $2 billion European Commercial Paper Programme established in October 2004. 
Drawings of $1,090 million were made at 31 December 2007 (2006: $10 million).
Subsequent to year end the Group also secured access to a $10 billion borrowing facility.
Market risk
This is the risk that financial instrument fair values will fluctuate owing to changes in 
market prices. The significant market risks to which the Group is exposed are foreign 
exchange risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk. These are discussed 
further below:
Foreign exchange risk
As a global group, the Group is exposed to many currencies principally as a result 
of non-US dollar operating costs incurred by US dollar functional currency companies 
and to a lesser extent, from non-US dollar revenues. The Group’s policy is generally 
not to hedge such exposures as hedging is not deemed appropriate given the 
diversified nature of the Group though exceptions can be approved by the Board.
In addition, currency exposures exist in respect of non-US dollar approved capital 
expenditure projects. The Group’s policy is that such exposure can be hedged at 
management’s discretion, within certain pre-defined limits (otherwise Board approval 
is required).
The exposure of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities (excluding intra-group loan 
balances) to currency risk is as follows:
 Financial   Total financial 
 assets Impact of  asset 
US$ million (excluding currency Derivative exposure to 
Currency derivatives) derivatives
(1)  
assets currency risk
At 31 December 2007    
US$
(2)
  4,260 (99) 465 4,626
Rand  4,414 88 17 4,519
Sterling  839 – – 839
Euro   301 – – 301
Canadian $  75 2 53 130
Australian $  221 (3) – 218
Other currencies  1,390 12 – 1,402
Total financial assets  11,500 – 535 12,035
   
At 31 December 2006    
US$
(2)
  3,321 (53) 254 3,522
Rand  3,032 8 15 3,055
Sterling  1,079 (10) – 1,069
Euro   1,058 (49) 4 1,013
Canadian $  42 (3) 46 85
Australian $  166 – – 166
Other currencies  1,476 107 10 1,593
Total financial assets  10,174 – 329 10,503
 Financial   Total financial 
 liabilities Impact of  liability 
US$ million (excluding currency Derivative exposure to 
Currency derivatives) derivatives
(1)  
liabilities currency risk
At 31 December 2007    
US$   (3,261) (2,962) (560) (6,783)
Rand  (3,879) – (26) (3,905)
Sterling  (1,325) 606 – (719)
Euro   (2,103) 1,886 – (217)
Canadian $  (269) 226 – (43)
Australian $  (406) – – (406)
Other currencies  (879) 244 – (635)
Total financial liabilities  (12,122) – (586) (12,708)
   
At 31 December 2006    
US$   (1,835) (2,178) (508) (4,521)
Rand  (3,571) 1 (10) (3,580)
Sterling  (1,541) 620 – (921)
Euro   (2,713) 1,323 (2) (1,392)
Canadian $  (18) – – (18)
Australian $  (333) – – (333)
Other currencies  (1,223) 234 – (989)
Total financial liabilities  (11,234) – (520) (11,754)
 
(1)
  Where currency derivatives are held to manage financial instrument exposures the notional principal 
amount is ‘reallocated’ to reflect the remaining exposure to the Group.
(2)
  Of these US$ financial assets, $571 million (2006: $497 million) are subject to South African 
exchange controls.
Interest rate risk
Fluctuations in interest rates impact on the value of short term investments and 
financing activities, giving rise to interest rate risk. Exposure to interest rate 
risk is particularly with reference to changes in US dollar, rand, sterling and euro 
interest rates.
The Group policy is to borrow funds at floating rates of interest as this is considered 
to give somewhat of a natural hedge against commodity price movements, given the 
correlation to economic growth (and industrial activity) which in turn shows a high 
correlation with commodity price fluctuation. In certain circumstances, the Group 
uses interest rate swap and option contracts to manage its exposure to interest rate 
movements on a portion of its existing debt. Also strategic hedging using fixed rate 
debt may be undertaken from time to time if considered appropriate.
In respect of financial assets, the Group’s policy is to invest cash at floating rates 
of interest and cash reserves are to be maintained in short term investments (less 
than one year) in order to maintain liquidity, while achieving a satisfactory return 
for shareholders.
The exposure of the Group’s financial assets (excluding intra-group loan balances) 
to interest rate risk is as follows:
   Interest bearing  Non-interest bearing 
   financial assets financial assets
       Other non- 
    Floating Fixed  interest  
    rate rate  bearing 
    financial financial Equity financial  
US$ million  assets assets investments assets Total
At 31 December 2007
Financial assets (excluding 
derivatives)
(1)
  3,013 864 3,842 3,781 11,500
Derivative assets  1 11 – 523 535
Financial asset exposure to 
interest rate risk  3,014 875 3,842 4,304 12,035
    
At 31 December 2006    
Financial assets (excluding 
derivatives)
(1)
  3,220 459 1,170 5,325 10,174
Derivative assets  1 2 – 326 329
Financial asset exposure to 
interest rate risk  3,221 461 1,170 5,651 10,503
 
(1)
  At 31 December 2007 and 2006 no interest rate swaps were held in respect of financial asset exposures. 
Floating rate financial assets consist mainly of cash and bank term deposits. Interest 
on floating rate assets is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates. Fixed rate 
financial assets consist mainly of financial asset investments and cash, and have 
a weighted average interest rate of 11% (2006: 7%) and are fixed for an average 
period of four years (2006: seven months). Equity investments are fully liquid and 
have no maturity period. Notes to the financial statements continued
110 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
25.  Financial risk management and derivative financial assets/liabilities 
continued 
The exposure of the Group’s financial liabilities (excluding intra-group loan balances) 
to interest rate risk is as follows:
    Floating rate Fixed rate Non-interest  
    financial financial bearing financial  
US$ million  liabilities
 
liabilities
 
 liabilities Total
At 31 December 2007   
Financial liabilities (excluding 
derivatives)  (5,425) (2,822) (3,875) (12,122)
Impact of interest rate swaps
(1)
  (2,336) 2,336 – –
Derivative liabilities  (45) – (541) (586)
Financial liability exposure to 
interest rate risk  (7,806) (486) (4,416) (12,708)
At 31 December 2006   
Financial liabilities (excluding 
derivatives)  (3,019) (3,168) (5,047) (11,234)
Impact of interest rate swaps
(1)
  (2,402) 2,402 – –
Derivative liabilities  (40) (1) (479) (520)
Financial liability exposure to 
interest rate risk  (5,461) (767) (5,526) (11,754)
 
(1)   
Where interest rate swaps are held to manage financial instrument exposures the notional principal 
amount is ‘reallocated’ to reflect the remaining exposure to the Group. 
Interest on floating rate instruments is based on the relevant national inter-bank 
rates. Remaining fixed rate borrowings accrue interest at 8% (2006: 5%) and are at 
fixed rates for an average period of two years (2006: two years). Average maturity 
on non-interest bearing instruments is three months (2006: two months).
Commodity price risk
The Group’s earnings are exposed to movements in the prices of the commodities it 
produces. Commodity price risk can be reduced through the negotiation of long term 
contracts or through the use of financial derivatives. 
In respect of the use of derivative instruments, the Group policy is generally not to 
hedge price risk, although some hedging may be undertaken for strategic reasons. In 
such cases, the Group uses forward, spot, deferred and option contracts to hedge the 
price risk. 
The exposure of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities to commodity price risk 
is as follows:
     Commodity price linked Not linked
     Subject to  to 
     price Fixed commodity 
US$ million   movements price
(2)
 price Total
At 31 December 2007
Total net financial instruments  
(excluding derivatives)   325 461 (1,408) (622)
Commodity derivatives (net)   (480) – – (480)
Other derivatives not related to 
commodity (net)   – – 429 429
Total financial instrument exposure 
to commodity risk   (155) 461 (979) (673)
    
At 31 December 2006    
Total net financial instruments  
(excluding derivatives)   248 521 (1,829) (1,060)
Impact of commodity derivatives
(1)
   (9) 9 – –
Commodity derivatives (net)   (423) (1) – (424)
Other derivatives not related to 
commodity (net)   – – 233 233
Total financial instrument exposure 
to commodity risk   (184) 529 (1,596) (1,251)
 
(1)
  Where commodity derivatives are held to manage financial instrument exposures the notional principal 
amount is ‘reallocated’ to reflect the remaining exposure to the Group.
(2)
  Includes financial instruments whose commodity prices are set annually or via contract negotiations. 
Derivatives
In accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39, the fair value of all derivatives are separately 
recorded on the balance sheet within other financial assets (derivatives) and other 
financial liabilities (derivatives). Derivatives that are designated as hedges are 
classified as current or non-current depending on the maturity of the derivative. 
Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are classified as current in accordance 
with IAS 1 even when their actual maturity is expected to be greater than one year. 
The Group utilises derivative instruments to manage its market risk exposures 
as explained above. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for 
speculative purposes, however it may choose not to designate certain derivatives as 
hedges. Such derivatives that are not hedge accounted are classified as non-hedges 
and fair value movements are recorded in the income statement. 
The use of derivative instruments is subject to limits and the positions are regularly 
monitored and reported to senior management. 
Embedded derivatives
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are 
treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely 
related to those of their host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair 
value. Embedded derivatives may be designated as a hedge and are accounted for 
in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy set out in note 1.
Cash flow hedges
In certain cases the Group classifies its forward exchange and commodity price 
contracts hedging highly probable forecast transactions as cash flow hedges. 
Where this designation is done, changes in fair value are recognised in equity until 
the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains or losses are 
transferred to the income statement (or hedged balance sheet item) in accordance 
with the Group’s accounting policy set out in note 1.
Fair value hedges
The majority of interest rate swaps (taken out to swap the Group’s fixed rate 
borrowings to floating rate, in accordance with the treasury policy) have been 
designated as fair value hedges. The respective carrying values of the hedged debt are 
adjusted to reflect the fair value of the interest rate risk being hedged. Subsequent 
changes in the fair value of the hedged risk are offset against fair value changes in 
the interest rate swap and classified within financing costs, in the income statement.
Non-hedges
The Group may choose not to designate certain derivatives as hedges, for example 
certain forward contracts that economically hedge forecast commodity transactions 
and relatively low value or short term derivative contracts where the potential 
mark to market exposure on the Group’s earnings is not considered material. Where 
derivatives have not been designated as hedges, fair value changes are recognised 
in the income statement in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy set out 
in note 1 and are classified as financing or operating depending on the nature of the 
associated hedged risk.
Cross currency swaps are also taken out to protect the Group’s non-US dollar debt 
against future currency movements. The respective carrying values of the hedged 
debt are translated at the closing exchange rate in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policy and as such a natural hedge of the currency risk is achieved. 111 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
25.  Financial risk management and derivative financial assets/liabilities 
continued
The fair value of the Group’s open derivative position at 31 December (excluding 
normal purchase and sale contracts held off-balance sheet), recorded within other 
financial assets (derivatives) and other financial liabilities (derivatives) is as follows:
      2007  2006
US$ million Asset Liability Asset Liability
Current    
Cash flow hedge
(1)
    
 Forward foreign currency contracts   2 – 11 (2)
 Forward commodity contracts
(2)
   – (304) 2 (162)
 Other   11 – – –
Fair value hedge    
 Forward foreign currency contracts   1 (12) 1 (1)
 Other   – – 4 (1)
Non-hedge (‘Held for trading’)
(3)
    
 Forward foreign currency contracts   31 (25) 14 (2)
 Cross currency swaps   404 (10) 242 (19)
 Other   86 (150) 55 (29)
Total current derivatives   535 (501) 329 (216)
    
Non-current    
Cash flow hedge
(1)
    
 Forward commodity contracts
(2)
   – (53) – (140)
 Other
(4)
   – – – (126)
Fair value hedge     
 Interest rate swaps   – (32) – (38)
Total non-current derivatives   – (85) – (304)
 
(1)
 The timing of the expected cash flows associated with these hedges is as follows:
 US$ million     2007 2006
 Within one year     (289) (174) 
 Greater than one year, less than two years     (61) (166) 
 Greater than two years, less than five years     – (62) 
 Greater than five years     – (181)
        (350) (583)
 
  The periods when these hedges are expected to impact the income statement generally follow the 
cash flow profile with the exception of hedging associated with capital projects which is included in 
the capitalised asset value and depreciated over the life of the asset. There are no material capital 
expenditure related hedges included in the above.
(2)
  Forward commodity contracts include forward copper derivatives taken out to hedge the future prices 
of sales from Anglo American Norte (formerly Mantos Blancos). The contracted forward price of 116 US 
cents/lb covers 3,338 tonnes per month for three years starting January 2006. At 31 December 2007 
there is one year remaining on the contract which represents 41% of Anglo American Norte cathode 
sales over the same period.
(3)
  $160 million (2006: $289 million) of derivative assets and $126 million (2006: $36 million) of 
derivative liabilities not designated as hedges and that are classified as current in accordance with IAS 1 
are due to mature after more than one year. 
(4)
  Other cash flow hedges in 2006 includes a derivative instrument embedded in a long term purchase 
power agreement which was designated as a hedge against market risk exposures on sales. 
This relationship was de-designated at the commencement of 2007.
These marked to market valuations are in no way predictive of the future value of the 
hedged position, nor of the future impact on the profit of the Group. The valuations 
represent the cost of buying all hedge contracts at the time of valuation, at market 
prices and rates available at the time.
Normal purchase and normal sale contracts
Commodity based contracts that meet the requirements of IAS 39 in that they are 
settled through physical delivery of the Group’s production or are used within the 
production process are classified as normal purchase and normal sale contracts. 
In accordance with IAS 39 these contracts are not marked to market when they are 
settled through physical delivery.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits 
for other stakeholders and, with cognisance of forecast future market conditions and 
structuring, to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to manage the short and long term capital structure, the Group adjusts the 
amount of ordinary dividends paid to shareholders, returns capital to shareholders 
(via, for example, share buybacks and special dividends), arranges debt to fund new 
acquisitions and also may sell non-core assets to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the ratio of net debt to total capital. 
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents (excluding 
derivatives which provide an economic hedge of debt and including the net debt 
of disposal groups). Total capital is calculated as ‘Net assets’ (as shown in the 
‘Consolidated balance sheet’) excluding net debt and investments in associates.
During 2007, the Group’s strategy, which was unchanged from 2006, was to 
maintain certain credit ratios consistent with long term credit ratings of A2 from 
Moody’s and A from Standard & Poor’s. Net debt to total capital as at 31 December 
2007 was 20.0% (2006: 12.9%). The increase during 2007 resulted primarily from 
share buybacks and acquisitions, partially offset by strong operating cash flows 
and asset disposals.
Financial instrument sensitivities
Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, derivative  
financial instruments and trade receivables and trade payables. The following analysis,  
required by IFRS 7, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Group’s financial 
instruments (as at year end) to changes in market variables, being commodity prices, 
exchange rates and interest rates.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the components of net 
debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio 
and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant 
and on the basis of the hedge designations in place at 31 December. In addition, 
the commodity price impact for provisionally priced contracts is based on the amount 
of trade receivables and trade payables (and the make up thereof) at 31 December. 
As a consequence, this sensitivity analysis relates to the position as at 31 December.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis:
•  All income statement sensitivities also impact equity.
•  The majority of debt and other deposits are carried at amortised cost and therefore 
carrying value does not change as interest rates move.
•  No sensitivity is provided for accrued interest as accruals are based on pre-agreed 
interest rates and therefore are not susceptible to further rate movements.
•  Changes in the carrying value of derivatives (from movements in commodity prices 
and interest rates) designated as cash flow hedges are assumed to be recorded 
fully within equity on the grounds of materiality.
•  No sensitivity has been calculated on derivatives and related underlying 
instruments designated into fair value hedge relationships as these are assumed 
to materially offset one another.
•  All hedge relationships are assumed to be fully effective on the grounds of 
materiality.
•  Debt with a maturity below one year is floating rate, unless it is a long term fixed 
rate debt in its final year.
•  Translation of foreign subsidiaries and operations into the Group’s presentation 
currency have been excluded from the sensitivity. 
Using the above assumptions, the following tables show the illustrative effect on 
the income statement and equity that would result from reasonably possible changes 
in the relevant commodity price, foreign currency or interest rates:
US$ million     Income statement Equity
Commodity price sensitivities
2007
10% increase in the copper price     89 66
5% fall in the copper price     (45) (33)
10% increase in the platinum price     (8) (8)
15% fall in the platinum price     13 13
5% increase in the coal price     – (15)
5% fall in the coal price     – 15
2006
10% fall in the copper price     (76) 24
10% increase in the platinum price     (4) (4)
10% fall in the platinum price     4 4
Interest rate sensitivities
2007
75 bp fall in US interest rates     (2) (2)
50 bp fall in South African interest rates    10 10
75 bp fall in UK interest rates     5 5
2006
25 bp increase in US interest rates     1 1
25 bp fall in US interest rates     (1) (1)
50 bp increase in South African interest rates    21 21
50 bp fall in South African interest rates    (21) (21) Notes to the financial statements continued
112 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
25.  Financial risk management and derivative financial assets/liabilities 
continued
 
US$ million     Income statement Equity
Foreign currency sensitivities
(1)
2007
+5% US$ to rand     18 18
-5% US$ to rand     (18) (17)
+5% US$ to Australian dollar     (19) (19)
-5% US$ to Australian dollar     23 23
+5% US$ to Brazilian real     (46) (46)
-5% US$ to Brazilian real     46 46
+5% US$ to sterling     (7) (7)
-5% US$ to sterling     8 8
+5% US$ to Chilean peso     8 8
-5% US$ to Chilean peso     (9) (9)
2006
+10% US$ to rand     49 45
-5% US$ to rand     (23) (21)
+10% US$ to Australian dollar     7 6
-5% US$ to Australian dollar     (2) (3)
+10% US$ to Chilean peso     20 19
-5% US$ to Chilean peso     (11) (11)
 
(1)
  + represents strengthening of US dollar against respective currency. 
The above sensitivities are calculated with reference to a single moment in time and 
will change due to a number of factors including:
•  fluctuating trade receivable and trade payable balances;
•  derivative instruments and borrowings settled throughout the year; 
•  fluctuating cash balances; 
•  changes in currency mix; and 
•  commercial paper with short term maturities, which is regularly replaced or settled.
As the sensitivities are limited to year end financial instrument balances they do not 
take account of the Group’s sales and operating costs which are highly sensitive to 
changes in commodity prices and exchange rates.
26. Provisions for liabilities and charges
    Environmental  Decommi- 
US$ million  restoration
(1)
 ssioning
(1)
 Other Total
At 1 January 2007   531 216 339 1,086
Acquired through business combinations  9 1 1 11
Disposal and demerger of businesses
(2)
  (22) – (62) (84)
Transfer to liabilities directly associated with 
assets held for sale   (2) (5) (4) (11)
Charged to the income statement   83 – 97 180
Capitalised
(3)
   37 37 – 74
Reclassifications   5 (12) 19 12
Unwinding of discount   23 13 – 36
Unused amounts reversed to the income  
statement   (3) – (15) (18)
Amounts applied   (12) (1) (92) (105)
Currency movements   26 7 10 43
At 31 December 2007   675 256 293 1,224
 
Maturity analysis of total provisions:
US$ million     2007 2006
Current     142 62
Non-current     1,082 1,024
       1,224 1,086  
 
(1)
  The Group makes voluntary contributions to controlled funds to meet the cost of some of its 
decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation liabilities in South Africa (see note 16).
(2)
  Includes environmental restoration of $22 million and other of $54 million relating to the demerger 
of Mondi.
(3)
  Amounts capitalised in the environmental restoration provision relate to amounts that will be recovered 
from third parties when the actual expenditure is incurred. 
Environmental restoration
The Group has an obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental 
costs when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing 
production of a mining property. A provision is recognised for the present value of 
such costs. It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over a period in excess 
of 20 years.
Decommissioning
Provision is made for the present value of costs relating to the decommissioning of 
plant or other site preparation work. It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred 
over a period in excess of 20 years.
Other
Other provisions primarily relate to cash settled share-based payments, indemnities, 
warranties and legal claims. It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over 
a five year period.
27 . Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets 
US$ million     2007 2006
At 1 January     372 337
Credited to the income statement
(1)
     109 43
Credited to the statement of recognised income and expense  30 35
Credited directly to equity     (2) 39
Acquired through business combinations    10 3
Transfer to assets held for sale     – (58)
Disposal and demerger of businesses
(2)
    (55) (59)
Reclassifications     (2) 41 
Currency movements     12 (9)
At 31 December     474 372
 
(1)
  Includes amounts in respect of discontinued operations of $9 million (2006: $3 million).
(2)
  In 2006, includes a $59 million deferred tax asset which was transferred to ‘Investments in associates’.
Deferred tax liabilities
US$ million     2007 2006
At 1 January     3,687 5,201 
Charged to the income statement
(1)
     456 115
Charged to the statement of recognised income and expense  150 8
Acquired through business combinations    904 12
Transfer to liabilities directly associated 
with assets held for sale     (77) (298)
Disposal and demerger of businesses
(2)
    (649) (1,268)
Reclassifications     2 35
Currency movements     177 (118)
At 31 December     4,650 3,687
 
(1)
  Includes amounts in respect of discontinued operations of $12 million (2006: $60 million credit).
(2)
  In 2006, includes a $1,267 million deferred tax liability which was transferred to ‘Investments 
in associates’.
The amount of deferred tax provided in the accounts is as follows:
US$ million     2007 2006
Deferred tax assets     
Tax losses     14 53
Other temporary differences     460 319
       474 372
Deferred tax liabilities
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation    2,640 2,448
Fair value adjustments     2,121 1,160
Tax losses     (46) (66)
Other temporary differences     (65) 145
       4,650 3,687
 
The amount of deferred tax charged/(credited) to the income statement (including 
amounts related to discontinued operations) is as follows:
US$ million     2007 2006
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation    373 297
Fair value adjustments     (63) (38)
Tax losses     (27) (54)
Convertible bond equity component     – (1)
Other temporary differences     64 (132)
       347 72
  113 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
27 . Deferred tax continued
The current expectation regarding the maturity of deferred tax balances is:
US$ million     2007 2006
Deferred tax assets      
Recoverable within 12 months     163 103
Recoverable after 12 months     311 269
       474 372
Deferred tax liabilities      
Payable within 12 months     790 67
Payable after 12 months     3,860 3,620
       4,650 3,687
The Group has the following balances at 31 December 2007 in respect of which 
no deferred tax asset has been recognised:
     Tax Tax Other  
     losses – losses – temporary  
US$ million   revenue capital differences Total
Within one year   8 – – 8
One to five years   1 – – 1
After five years   22 – 6 28
No expiry date   2,248 1,430 – 3,678
     2,279 1,430 6 3,715
The Group had the following balances at 31 December 2006 in respect of which 
no deferred tax asset was recognised:
     Tax Tax Other  
     losses – losses – temporary  
US$ million   revenue capital differences Total
(1)
Within one year   11 – – 11 
One to five years   36 – – 36
After five years   21 5 – 26
No expiry date   2,867 714 – 3,581 
     2,935 719 – 3,654 
 
(1)
  Includes amounts in respect of discontinued operations of $845 million revenue tax losses and 
$45 million capital tax losses. 
The Group also has unused tax credits of $211 million (2006: $65 million) for which 
no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet. These tax credits have no 
expiry date.
No liability has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interests in joint ventures, 
where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interests in joint ventures, for which 
a deferred tax liability has not been recognised is $20,724 million (2006: $16,946 
million), on which tax may be payable up to $5,906 million (2006: $5,084 million).
28. Retirement benefits
The Group operates defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans for the 
majority of its employees. It also operates post retirement medical arrangements 
in southern Africa and North America.
Defined contribution plans
The defined contribution pension cost represents the actual contributions payable  
by the Group to the various plans. At 31 December 2007, there were no material 
outstanding or prepaid contributions and so no accrual or prepayment has been 
disclosed in the balance sheet in relation to these plans.
The assets of the defined contribution plans are held separately in independently 
administered funds. The charge in respect of these plans is calculated on the basis  
of the contribution payable by the Group in the financial year. The charge for the year 
for continuing operations was $180 million (2006: $170 million).
Defined benefit pension plans and post retirement medical plans
The majority of the defined benefit pension plans are funded. The assets of these 
plans are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered 
funds, in accordance with statutory requirements or local practice throughout 
the world. In 2007 the unfunded pension plans are principally in South America 
(2006: principally South America and Europe).
The post retirement medical arrangements provide health benefits to retired 
employees and certain dependants. Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain 
criteria. The majority of these plans are unfunded.
The Group’s provision of anti-retroviral therapy to HIV positive staff has not 
significantly impacted the post retirement medical plan liability.
Independent qualified actuaries carry out full valuations every three years using the 
projected unit method. The actuaries have updated the valuations to 31 December 2007.
The Group’s plans in respect of pension and post retirement healthcare are 
summarised as follows:
      2007    2006
   Southern The    Southern The  
US$ million Africa Americas  Europe Total  Africa  Americas Europe  Total
Assets
(1)
Defined benefit  
pension plans  
in surplus 48 – 4 52 107 – 3 110
 
(1)
 Amounts are included in ‘Other non-current assets’. 
      2007    2006
   Southern The    Southern The  
US$ million Africa Americas  Europe Total  Africa  Americas Europe  Total
Liabilities
Defined benefit  
pension plans  
in deficit – 129 6 135 – 116 253 369
Post retirement 
medical plans 
in deficit 277 32 – 309 381 25 – 406
   277 161 6 444 381 141 253 775
US$ million   2007 2006 2005 2004
Defined benefit pension plans
Present value of liabilities   (3,095) (4,256) (3,985) (4,041)
Fair value of plan assets   3,148 4,160 3,539 3,479
Net surplus/(deficit)   53 (96) (446) (562)
Surplus restriction   (136) (163) (107) –
Net deficit after surplus restriction   (83) (259) (553) (562)
Actuarial gain on plan assets
(1)
   39 308 438 163
Actuarial loss on plan liabilities
(2)
   (48) (156) (435) (198)
Post retirement medical plans 
Present value of liabilities   (329) (422) (650) (654)
Fair value of plan assets   20 16 22 15
Net deficit   (309) (406) (628) (639)
Actuarial gain on plan assets
(3)
   1 – – –
Actuarial (loss)/gain on plan liabilities
(4)
  (29) 15 (67) (22)
 
(1)
  Net experience gains on pension plan assets were $32 million (2006: $314 million).
(2)
  Net experience losses on pension plan liabilities were $112 million (2006: $113 million).
(3)
  Net experience losses on medical plan assets were $1 million (2006: $1 million).
(4)
  Net experience losses on medical plan liabilities were $4 million (2006: gains of $36 million). 
Cumulative net actuarial losses recognised in the Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense are $163 million (2006: $126 million; 2005: $228 million; 2004: 
$57 million).
The market value of assets was used to determine the funding level of the plans.  
The market value of the assets of the funded plans was sufficient to cover 105% 
(2006: 104%) of the benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for 
expected increases in future earnings and pensions. Companies within the Group  
are paying contributions as required in accordance with local actuarial advice.  
As the majority of the defined benefit pension plans are closed to new members,  
it is expected that contributions will increase as the members age.
The actual return on plan assets in respect of defined benefit pension schemes for 
continuing and discontinued operations was $307 million (2006: $577 million). 114 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Retirement benefits continued
Income statement
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
     2007   2006
(1)
    Post    Post  
    retirement   retirement 
   Pension  medical Total Pension  medical Total 
US$ million plans plans plans plans plans plans
Analysis of the amount 
charged to operating profit      
Current service costs 54 8 62 55 6 61
Past service costs 3 – 3 1 – 1
Total within operating costs  
– continuing operations 57 8 65 56 6 62
Analysis of the amount 
charged to net finance costs      
Expected return on 
plan assets
(2)
 (255) (2) (257) (233) (1) (234)
Interest costs on 
plan liabilities
(3)
 207 22 229 201 25 226
Net (credit)/charge to 
net finance costs  
– continuing operations (48) 20 (28) (32) 24 (8)
Total charge to the 
income statement  
– continuing operations
 
9 28 37 24 30 54
 
(1)  
Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations. 
(2)
 Included in ‘Investment income’.
(3)
 Included in ‘Interest expense’. 
Actuarial assumptions
The principal assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of  
benefit obligations and pension costs under IAS 19 are detailed below (shown 
as weighted averages):
     2007   2006
   Southern The   Southern The  
   Africa Americas  Europe  Africa  Americas Europe  
   % % % % % %
Defined benefit pension plans
Average discount rate 
for plan liabilities 8.2 7.5 5.7 7.9 7.7 4.8
Average rate of inflation 5.5 3.6 3.4 4.5 3.6 2.6
Average rate of increase  
in salaries 6.8 4.5 3.5 5.5 4.7 3.3
Average rate of increase 
of pensions in payment 5.5 1.8 3.4 4.5 2.1 2.9
Average long term rate 
of return on plan assets
(1)
 8.5 10.6 6.8 9.2 9.6 6.0
Post retirement medical plans
Average discount rate
for plan liabilities 8.0 5.5 n/a 7.9 5.0 n/a
Average rate of inflation 5.3 2.6 n/a 4.7 – n/a
Expected average increase 
in healthcare costs 6.8 4.4 n/a 5.7 4.4 n/a
 
(1)
  The long term expected return on plan assets has been set with reference to current market yields on 
government and corporate bonds and expected equity bond-outperformance in the relevant jurisdictions. 
The expected return on cash assets has been set with reference to expected inter-bank rates. The overall 
long term expected rate of return for each class is weighted by the asset allocation to the class at the 
balance sheet date. 
Mortality assumptions are determined based on standard mortality tables with 
adjustments, as appropriate, to reflect experience of conditions locally. In southern 
Africa, the SA85-90 and the PA90 tables are used. The main schemes in Europe 
use the PA92 tables. The main schemes in the Americas use the GAM94 tables. 
The mortality tables used for the main schemes imply that a male aged 60 at the 
balance sheet date has an expected future lifetime of 20.3 years in southern Africa 
(2006: 20.3 years), 25.3 years in Europe (2006: 25.3 years) and 22.0 years in the 
Americas (2006: 21.7 years). 
The market value of the pension assets in defined benefit pension plans and long term expected rate of return as at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 are as follows:
     Southern Africa  The Americas  Europe Total
    Rate of  Fair value Rate of  Fair value Rate of  Fair value Fair value 
    return US$  return US$ return US$  US$ 
At 31 December 2007   % million % million % million million
Equity   11.0 273 10.7 68 8.1 1,021 1,362
Bonds   7.6 654 10.8 167 5.2 568 1,389
Other   7.1 54 7.8 10 5.5 333 397
Fair value of pension plan assets    981  245  1,922 3,148
Present value of unfunded obligations    –  (105)  (4) (109)
Present value of funded obligations    (853)  (269)  (1,864) (2,986)
Present value of pension plan liabilities    (853)  (374)  (1,868) (3,095)
Net surplus/(deficit) in the pension plans    128  (129)  54 53
Surplus restriction related to pension plans    (80)  –  (56) (136)
Recognised pension plan assets/(liabilities)    48  (129)  (2) (83)
Amounts in the balance sheet         
Pension assets    48  –  4 52
Pension liabilities    –  (129)  (6) (135)
     48  (129)  (2) (83) 115 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
Movement analysis
The changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows:
     2007   2006
    Post    Post  
    retirement   retirement 
   Pension  medical Total Pension  medical Total 
US$ million plans plans plans plans plans plans
At 1 January (4,256) (422) (4,678) (3,985) (650) (4,635)
Current service costs
(1)
 (57) (9) (66) (68) (7) (75)
Acquisition, disposal 
and demerger 
of businesses
(2)
 1,442 150 1,592 153 165 318
Transfer to assets held for sale – – – 15 18 33
Past service costs and 
effects of settlements 
and curtailments
(3)
 (1) – (1) 6 – 6
Interest costs
(4)
 (220) (25) (245) (241) (33) (274)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (48) (29) (77) (156) 15 (141)
Benefits paid 137 18 155 155 24 179
Contributions paid by 
other members (7) (2) (9) (14) (1) (15)
Reclassifications (2) – (2) (7) 5 (2)
Currency movements (83) (10) (93) (114) 42 (72)
At 31 December (3,095) (329) (3,424) (4,256) (422) (4,678)
 
(1)  
Includes $3 million (2006: $13 million) for pension plans and $1 million (2006: $1 million) for post 
retirement medical plans in respect of discontinued operations.
(2)
 2006 includes $435 million which was transferred to ‘Investments in associates’.
(3)  
Includes a gain of $2 million (2006: a gain of $1 million) for pension plans in respect of discontinued 
operations.
(4)  
Includes $13 million (2006: $40 million) for pension plans and $3 million (2006: $8 million) for post 
retirement medical plans in respect of discontinued operations.
 
28. Retirement benefits continued
 
     Southern Africa  The Americas  Europe Total
    Rate of  Fair value Rate of  Fair value Rate of  Fair value Fair value 
    return US$  return US$ return US$  US$ 
At 31 December 2006   % million % million % million million
Equity   11.0 1,016 10.4 44 7.5 1,042 2,102
Bonds   7.4 649 5.8 132 4.7 555 1,336
Other   6.9 337 8.9 10 4.2 375 722
Fair value of pension plan assets    2,002  186  1,972 4,160
Present value of unfunded obligations    –  (87)  (167) (254)
Present value of funded obligations    (1,737)  (215)  (2,050) (4,002)
Present value of pension plan liabilities    (1,737)  (302)  (2,217) (4,256)
Net surplus/(deficit) in the pension plans    265  (116)  (245) (96)
Surplus restriction related to pension plans    (158)  –  (5) (163)
Recognised pension plan assets/(liabilities)    107  (116)  (250) (259)
Amounts in the balance sheet         
Pension assets    107  –  3 110
Pension liabilities    –  (116)  (253) (369)
     107  (116)  (250) (259)
 
The changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
     2007   2006
    Post    Post  
    retirement   retirement 
   Pension  medical Total Pension  medical Total 
US$ million plans plans plans plans plans plans
At 1 January 4,160 16 4,176 3,539 22 3,561
Expected return
(1)
 268 2 270 264 1 265
Actuarial gains 39 1 40 308 – 308
Acquisition, disposal  
and demerger 
of businesses
(2)
 (1,329) – (1,329) (173) (6) (179)
Transfer to assets held for sale – – – (15) – (15)
Contributions paid 
by employer 69 16 85 309 25 334
Contributions paid 
by other members 7 2 9 14 1 15
Benefits paid (137) (18) (155) (155) (24) (179)
Effects of settlements 
and curtailments – – – (6) – (6)
Reclassifications 2 – 2 6 – 6
Currency movements 69 1 70 69 (3) 66
At 31 December 3,148 20 3,168 4,160 16 4,176
 
(1)
 
 
Includes $13 million (2006: $31 million) for pension plans in respect of discontinued operations.
(2)
  2006 includes $246 million which was transferred to ‘Investments in associates’. 
Assumed healthcare trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts recognised 
in the income statement. A 1% change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would 
have the following effects:
   1%  1% 
   increase  decrease
US$ million  2007 2006  2007 2006
Effect on the sum of service  
costs and interest costs  4 6  (2) (5)
Effect on defined benefit obligations  39 53  (22) (44)
 
The Group expects to contribute approximately $50 million to its defined benefit 
pension plans and $24 million to its post retirement medical plans in 2008. 116 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
Tenon
Tenon Investment Holdings (Pty) Limited (Tenon), a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Anglo American South Africa Limited (AASA), has entered into agreements with 
Epoch Investment Holdings Limited (Epoch), Epoch Two Investment Holdings 
Limited (Epoch Two) and Tarl Investments Holdings Limited (Tarl) (collectively 
the Investment Companies), each owned by independent charitable trusts whose 
trustees are independent of the Group. Under the terms of these agreements, the 
Investment Companies have purchased Anglo American plc shares on the market and 
have granted to Tenon the right to nominate a third party (which may include Anglo 
American plc but not any of its subsidiaries) to take transfer of the Anglo American 
plc shares each has purchased on the market. Tenon paid the Investment Companies 
80% of the cost of the Anglo American plc shares including associated costs for 
this right to nominate which together with subscriptions by Tenon for non-voting 
participating redeemable preference shares in the Investment Companies provide all 
the funding required to acquire the Anglo American plc shares through the market. 
These payments by Tenon are sourced from the cash resources of AASA. Tenon is 
able to exercise its right of nomination at any time up to 31 December 2025 against 
payment of an average amount of $7.96 per share to Epoch, $12.09 per share to 
Epoch Two and $9.62 per share to Tarl which will be equal to 20% of the total costs 
respectively incurred by Epoch, Epoch Two and Tarl in purchasing shares nominated 
for transfer to the third party. These funds will then become available for redemption 
of the preference shares issued by the Investment Companies. The amount payable 
by the third party on receipt of the Anglo American plc shares will accrue to Tenon 
and, in accordance with paragraph 33 of IAS 32, any resulting gain or loss recorded 
by Tenon will not be recognised in the income statement of Anglo American plc.
Under the agreements, the Investment Companies will receive dividends on the 
shares they hold and have agreed to waive the right to vote those shares. The 
preference shares issued to the charitable trusts are entitled to a participating right 
of up to 10% of the profit after tax of Epoch and 5% of the profit after tax of Epoch 
Two and Tarl. The preference shares issued to Tenon will carry a fixed coupon of 3% 
plus a participating right of up to 80% of the profit after tax of Epoch and 85% of 
the profit after tax of Epoch Two and Tarl. Any remaining distributable earnings in the 
Investment Companies, after the above dividends, are then available for distribution 
as ordinary dividends to the charitable trusts.
The structure effectively provides Tenon with a beneficial interest in the price risk on 
these shares together with a participation in future dividend receipts. The Investment 
Companies will retain legal title to the shares until Tenon exercises its right to 
nominate a transferee.
At 31 December 2007, the Investment Companies together held 106,356,408 
(2006: 45,569,127) Anglo American plc shares with a market value of $6,521 
million (2006: $2,226 million) which represented 8% (2006: 3%) of the ordinary 
shares in issue (excluding treasury shares). The Investment Companies are not 
permitted to hold more than an aggregate of 10% of the issued share capital of 
Anglo American plc at any one time.
Although the Group has no voting rights in the Investment Companies and cannot 
appoint or remove trustees of the charitable trusts, the Investment Companies meet 
the accounting definition of a subsidiary in accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and 
Separate Financial Statements (IAS 27). As a result, the Investment Companies are 
consolidated in accordance with the definitions of IAS 27 and the principles set out 
in SIC 12 Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities.
Employee benefit trust
The provision of shares to certain of the Company’s share option and share incentive 
schemes is facilitated by an employee benefit trust. During 2007 9,007,694 
(2006: 17,764,975) shares were sold to employees on exercise of their options, 
and provisional allocations were made to options already awarded. The cost of 
shares purchased by the trust is presented against retained earnings (see note 30). 
The employee benefit trust has waived the right to receive dividends on these 
shares although the waiver was temporarily suspended in respect of the Mondi 
demerger dividend in specie. Immediately after the dividend was paid, the waiver 
was reinstated.
The market value of the 9.7 million shares held by the trust at 31 December 2007 
was $594 million. At 31 December 2006 the market value of the 19.8 million shares 
held by the trust was $966 million.
The costs of operating the trust are borne by the Group but are not material.
29. Called-up share capital and share-based payments
Called-up share capital
    2007  2006
   Number of shares US$ million Number of shares US$ million
Authorised:
5% cumulative preference 
shares of £1 each 50,000 – 50,000 – 
Ordinary shares of 
54
86
/ 9 1 US cents  
(2006: 50 US cents) each 1,820,000,000 1,000 2,000,000,000 1,000
    1,000  1,000
Called-up, allotted and fully paid:
5% cumulative preference 
shares of £1 each 50,000 – 50,000 –
Ordinary shares of 
54
86
/ 9 1 US cents 
(2006: 50 US cents) each:    
At 1 January 1,541,653,607 771 1,493,855,896 747
Share consolidation (138,749,193) – – –
Treasury share cancellation (60,000,050) (33) – –
Convertible bonds – – 47,789,096 24
Other 7,533 – 8,615 – 
At 31 December
 
1,342,911,897
 
738
 
1,541,653,607 771
Following the demerger of Mondi on 2 July, a share consolidation became effective 
with the result that for every 100 existing ordinary shares of 50 US cents each, 
shareholders received 91 new ordinary shares of 54
86
/91 US cents each. This resulted 
in a reduction in the number of ordinary shares held of 138,749,193.
During 2007 4,143 ordinary shares of 50 US cents each and 3,390 ordinary 
shares of 54
86
/91 US cents each were allotted to certain non-executive directors by 
subscription of their after tax directors’ fees (2006: 8,615 ordinary shares of 50 
US cents each). During 2006 47,789,096 ordinary shares of 50 US cents each were 
allotted upon the conversion of Anglo American plc convertible bonds due 2008.
On 20 June 2007, the Company cancelled 50 ordinary shares of 50 US cents 
previously held in treasury. On 3 August 2007, the Company cancelled 60,000,000 
ordinary shares of 54
86
/91 US cents previously held in treasury. As at 31 December 
2007 the Company held 20,783,518 ordinary shares of 54
86
/91 US cents in treasury 
(2006: 45,621,369 ordinary shares of 50 US cents).
In 2007 27,073,161 ordinary shares of 50 US cents each and 14,631,542 ordinary 
shares of 54
86
/91 US cents each were purchased by the Company and held in treasury 
(2006: 45,621,369 ordinary shares of 50 US cents each). Excluding shares held in 
treasury (but including the shares held by the Group in other structures, as outlined 
in the Tenon and Employee benefit trust sections below) the number of called-up, 
allotted and fully paid ordinary shares as at 31 December 2007 was 1,322,128,379; 
$726 million (2006: 1,496,032,238; $748 million).
At general meetings, every member who is present in person has one vote on a show 
of hands and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy has one 
vote for every ordinary share held.
In the event of winding up, the holders of the cumulative preference shares will be 
entitled to the repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up, or credited 
as paid up, on the cumulative preference shares held by them and any accrued 
dividend, whether such dividend has been earned or declared or not, calculated 
up to the date of the winding up.
No ordinary shares were allotted on exercise of employee share option plans 
(2006: nil). 117 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
29. Called-up share capital and share-based payments continued
Share-based payments
During the year ended 31 December 2007, the Group had six share-based payment arrangements with employees, the details of which are described in the remuneration 
report. All of the Group’s schemes are equity settled, either by award of options to acquire ordinary shares (ESOS, SAYE and former AAC Executive Share Incentive Scheme) 
or award of ordinary shares (BSP, LTIP and SIP). The share option schemes are now closed to new participants, having been replaced with the BSP. 
The total share-based payment charge for continuing operations relating to Anglo American shares for the year was made up as follows:
US$ million      2007 2006
(1)
ESOS   3 13
BSP    41 23
LTIP    43 29
Other schemes        7 6
         94 71
(1)
  Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations. 
The fair values of options granted under the ESOS and SAYE schemes, being the more material option schemes, were calculated using a Black Scholes model. No ESOS 
awards were granted in 2007 or 2006. The assumptions used in these calculations for the current and prior years are set out in the tables below:
       2007 2006 
Arrangement      SAYE
(1)
 SAYE
(1)
Date of grant   26/04/07 27/04/06
Number of instruments   315,716 476,417
Exercise price (£)   21.42 17.97
Share price at the date of grant (£)   26.78 22.46
Contractual life (years)   3.5-7.5 3.5-7.5
Vesting conditions
(2)
   3-7 3-7
Expected volatility   30% 30%
Expected option life (years)   3.5-7.5 3.5-7.5
Risk free interest rate   5.2% 4.6%
Expected departures   5%pa 5%pa
Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria (at date of grant)   n/a n/a
Fair value per option granted (weighted average) (£)   8.68 7.54
The fair value of ordinary shares awarded under the BSP and LTIP – ROCE, being the more material share schemes, was calculated using a Black Scholes model. The fair value 
of shares awarded under the LTIP – TSR scheme was calculated using a Monte Carlo model. The assumptions used in these calculations for the current and prior years are set 
out in the tables below
(4)
:
    2007  2006
Arrangement  BSP
(1)
 LTIP – ROCE
(1)
 LTIP – TSR
(1)
 BSP
(1)
 LTIP – ROCE
(1)
 LTIP – TSR
(1)
Date of grant  09/03/07 23/03/07 23/03/07 06/03/06 29/03/06 29/03/06
Number of instruments  1,642,336 841,211 841,211 1,861,834 749,826 749,826
Exercise price (£)  – – – – – –
Share price at the date of grant (£)  24.73 24.63 24.63 21.59 20.72 20.72
Contractual life (years)  3 3 3 3 3 3
Vesting conditions  
(3)
 
(4)
 
(5)
 
(3) (4) (5)
Expected volatility  30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30%
Expected option life (years)  3 3 3 3 3 3
Risk free interest rate  5.1% 5.2% 5.2% 4.3% 4.4% 4.4%
Expected departures  5%pa 5%pa 5%pa 5%pa 5%pa 5%pa
Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria (at date of grant) 44-100% 100% n/a 44-100% 65% n/a
Fair value per option granted (weighted average) (£) 24.67 23.96 18.34 20.04 19.46 13.10
(1)
  The number of instruments used in the fair value models differs to the total number of instruments awarded in the year due to awards made subsequent to the fair value calculations taking place.  
The fair value calculated per the assumptions above has been applied to the total number of awards. The difference in income statement charge is not considered significant.
(2)
 Number of years continuous employment.
(3)
 Three years continuous employment with enhancement shares having variable vesting based on non-market based performance conditions.
(4)
 Variable vesting dependent on three years continuous employment and Group ROCE target being achieved.
(5)
 Variable vesting dependent on three years continuous employment and market based performance conditions being achieved. 
The expected volatility is based on historic volatility over the last five years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate of return  
is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds with a term similar to the expected life of the option.
The charges arising in respect of the other employee share schemes that the Group operated during the year are not considered material.
A progressive dividend growth policy is assumed in all fair value calculations. Notes to the financial statements continued
118 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
29. Called-up share capital and share-based payments continued
A reconciliation of option movements for the more significant share-based payment arrangements over the year to 31 December 2007 and the prior period is shown below. 
All options outstanding at 31 December 2007 with an exercise date on or prior to 31 December 2007 are deemed exercisable. Options were exercised regularly during the 
year and the weighted average share price for the year ended 31 December 2007 was £29.09 (2006: £22.36).
Executive Share Option Scheme
Options to acquire ordinary shares of 54
86
/91 US cents (2006: 50 US cents) were outstanding under the terms of this scheme as follows:
At 31 December 2007
      Options Options Options Options Options Options 
     Option price  outstanding granted during exercised forfeited expired outstanding 
Year of grant Date exercisable   per share £ 1 Jan 2007 the year in year in year in year 31 Dec 2007
1999 24 June 2002 to 23 June 2009   6.98 1,076,806 – 288,550 – 16,000 772,256
1999 19 October 2002 to 18 October 2009  8.00 38,000 – 9,000 – – 29,000
2000 23 March 2003 to 22 March 2010   7.66 1,446,216 – 368,400 – 21,084 1,056,732
2000 26 June 2003 to 25 June 2010   7.66 5,000 – 5,000 – – –
2000 12 September 2003 to 11 September 2010  10.19 29,000 – 14,000 – – 15,000
2001 2 April 2004 to 1 April 2011   10.03 1,745,658 – 430,250 – 64,344 1,251,064
2001 13 September 2004 to 12 September 2011  8.00 26,750 – – – – 26,750
2002 18 March 2005 to 17 March 2012   11.50 1,848,700 – 451,295 – 99,163 1,298,242
2002 13 September 2005 to 12 September 2012  8.05 11,000 – – – – 11,000
2003 5 March 2006 to 4 March 2013   9.28 4,022,398 – 1,420,359 – 251,354 2,350,685
2003 13 August 2006 to 12 August 2013  11.41 59,760 – 21,823 – 5,000 32,937
2003 1 October 2006 to 30 September 2013  10.81 10,000 – 10,000 – – –
2004 1 March 2007 to 28 February 2014   13.43 6,796,976 – 3,955,583 – 200,048 2,641,345
2004 10 August 2007 to 9 August 2014   11.52 194,322 – 87,949 – 22,000 84,373
2004 29 November 2009 to 28 November 2014  12.73 11,147 – – – – 11,147
2005 6 January 2008 to 4 January 2015   12.12 37,579 – – – – 37,579
2005 1 August 2008 to 31 July 2015   14.40 18,000 – – – – 18,000
2005 19 August 2008 to 18 August 2015  13.94 5,500 – – – – 5,500
      17,382,812 – 7,062,209 – 678,993 9,641,610
At 31 December 2006
      Options Options Options Options Options Options 
     Option price  outstanding granted during exercised forfeited expired outstanding 
Year of grant Date exercisable   per share £ 1 Jan 2006 the year in year in year in year 31 Dec 2006
1999 24 June 2002 to 23 June 2009   6.98 1,844,354 – 748,548 – 19,000 1,076,806
1999 19 October 2002 to 18 October 2009  8.00 63,504 – 25,504 – – 38,000
2000 23 March 2003 to 22 March 2010   7.66 2,244,700 – 764,484 – 34,000 1,446,216
2000 26 June 2003 to 25 June 2010   7.66 23,000 – 18,000 – – 5,000
2000 12 September 2003 to 11 September 2010  10.19 68,000 – 39,000 – – 29,000
2001 2 April 2004 to 1 April 2011   10.03 3,290,348 – 1,452,290 – 92,400 1,745,658
2001 13 September 2004 to 12 September 2011  8.00 63,350 – 36,600 – – 26,750
2002 18 March 2005 to 17 March 2012   11.50 3,659,521 – 1,737,862 – 72,959 1,848,700
2002 13 September 2005 to 12 September 2012  8.05 68,102 – 52,102 – 5,000 11,000
2003 5 March 2006 to 4 March 2013   9.28 11,729,915 – 7,442,843 – 264,674 4,022,398
2003 13 August 2006 to 12 August 2013  11.41 237,053 – 150,863 – 26,430 59,760
2003 1 October 2006 to 30 September 2013  10.81 70,000 – 60,000 – – 10,000
2004 1 March 2007 to 28 February 2014   13.43 7,419,462 – 353,806 268,680 – 6,796,976
2004 10 August 2007 to 9 August 2014   11.52 212,031 – 4,000 13,709 – 194,322
2004 29 November 2009 to 28 November 2014  12.73 11,147 – – – – 11,147
2005 6 January 2008 to 4 January 2015   12.12 37,579 – – – – 37,579
2005 28 February 2008 to 27 February 2015  12.96 20,850 – 20,850 – – –
2005 1 August 2008 to 31 July 2015   14.40 18,000 – – – – 18,000
2005 19 August 2008 to 18 August 2015  13.94 5,500 – – – – 5,500
      31,086,416 – 12,906,752 282,389 514,463 17,382,812 119 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
29. Called-up share capital and share-based payments continued
SAYE Share Option Scheme
(1)
Options to acquire ordinary shares of 54
86
/91 US cents (2006: 50 US cents) were outstanding under the terms of this scheme as follows:
At 31 December 2007
       Options Options Options Options Options Options 
      Option price  outstanding granted during exercised forfeited expired outstanding 
Year of grant Date exercisable    per share £ 1 Jan 2007 the year in year in year in year 31 Dec 2007
1999 1 September 2006 to 28 February 2007  6.38 1,728 – 1,728 – – –
2000 1 July 2007 to 31 December 2007   4.85 330,023 – 324,172 – 323 5,528
2001 1 July 2006 to 31 December 2006   8.45 1,531 – 319 1,212 – –
2001 1 July 2008 to 31 December 2008   8.45 45,037 – 7,792 522 429 36,294
2002 1 September 2007 to 29 February 2008  9.23 105,884 – 102,187 143 906 2,648
2002 1 September 2009 to 28 February 2010  9.23 33,704 – 7,544 560 862 24,738
2003 1 September 2006 to 28 February 2007  7.52 6,940 – 5,776 1,164 – –
2003 1 September 2008 to 28 February 2009  7.52 176,698 – 16,963 2,399 4,608 152,728
2003 1 September 2010 to 28 February 2011  7.52 49,827 – 6,488 – 2,431 40,908
2004 1 September 2007 to 29 February 2008  10.81 167,708 – 160,787 2,853 1,562 2,506
2004 1 September 2009 to 28 February 2010  10.81 92,595 – 9,239 4,650 6,544 72,162
2004 1 September 2011 to 29 February 2012  10.81 24,050 – 1,588 2,929 1,209 18,324
2005 1 September 2008 to 28 February 2009  10.15 323,567 – 22,208 13,799 11,833 275,727
2005 1 September 2010 to 28 February 2011  10.15 288,080 – 8,936 11,238 13,192 254,714
2005 1 September 2012 to 28 February 2013  10.15 60,555 – 4,079 915 7,502 48,059
2006 1 September 2009 to 28 February 2010  17.97 265,498 – 9,868 28,371 18,807 208,452
2006 1 September 2011 to 29 February 2012  17.97 146,950 – 2,911 10,326 11,599 122,114
2006 1 September 2013 to 28 February 2014  17.97 47,708 – 1,798 4,316 7,573 34,021
2007 1 September 2010 to 28 February 2011  21.42 – 185,798 65 6,707 854 178,172
2007 1 September 2012 to 28 February 2013  21.42 – 90,656 – 4,332 – 86,324
2007 1 September 2014 to 28 February 2015  21.42 – 39,262 – 2,344 – 36,918
     2,168,083 315,716 694,448 98,780 90,234 1,600,337
At 31 December 2006
       Options Options Options Options Options Options 
      Option price  outstanding granted during exercised forfeited expired outstanding 
Year of grant Date exercisable    per share £ 1 Jan 2006 the year in year in year in year 31 Dec 2006
1999 1 September 2006 to 28 February 2007  6.38 24,292 – 22,451 113 – 1,728
2000 1 July 2005 to 31 December 2005
(2)
  4.85 19,667 – 9,880 – 9,787 –
2000 1 July 2007 to 31 December 2007   4.85 337,199 – 5,806 1,370 – 330,023
2001 1 July 2006 to 31 December 2006   8.45 181,426 – 176,766 2,331 798 1,531
2001 1 July 2008 to 31 December 2008   8.45 52,084 – 2,977 4,070 – 45,037
2002 1 September 2005 to 28 February 2006  9.23 7,517 – 2,548 – 4,969 –
2002 1 September 2007 to 29 February 2008  9.23 120,423 – 7,118 5,667 1,754 105,884
2002 1 September 2009 to 28 February 2010  9.23 37,086 – 1,294 1,739 349 33,704
2003 1 September 2006 to 28 February 2007  7.52 444,260 – 427,353 5,627 4,340 6,940
2003 1 September 2008 to 28 February 2009  7.52 193,406 – 5,299 10,537 872 176,698
2003 1 September 2010 to 28 February 2011  7.52 54,309 – 177 3,928 377 49,827
2004 1 September 2007 to 29 February 2008  10.81 190,004 – 6,321 14,948 1,027 167,708
2004 1 September 2009 to 28 February 2010  10.81 106,383 – 3,021 10,465 302 92,595
2004 1 September 2011 to 29 February 2012  10.81 25,741 – 418 1,013 260 24,050
2005 1 September 2008 to 28 February 2009  10.15 374,272 – 5,236 43,531 1,938 323,567
2005 1 September 2010 to 28 February 2011  10.15 321,011 – 1,396 27,143 4,392 288,080
2005 1 September 2012 to 28 February 2013  10.15 62,208 – 40 1,261 352 60,555
2006 1 September 2009 to 28 February 2010  17.97 – 276,978 13 11,363 104 265,498
2006 1 September 2011 to 29 February 2012  17.97 – 150,153 – 3,203 – 146,950
2006 1 September 2013 to 28 February 2014  17.97 – 49,286 – 1,483 95 47,708
       2,551,288 476,417 678,114 149,792 31,716 2,168,083
Former AAC Executive Share Incentive Scheme
(1)
At 31 December 2007
       Weighted average  Options Options Options Options Options 
       option price  outstanding exercised forfeited expired outstanding 
Year of grant Date exercisable     per share £ 1 Jan 2007 in year in year in year 31 Dec 2007
1990-1997 1 January 1999 to 15 December 2007   3.21 49,800 49,800 – – –
1998 1 January 2000 to 4 December 2008   3.37 2,636,080 1,956,280 – – 679,800
1999 4 January 2001 to 4 January 2009    2.94 95,500 56,800 – – 38,700
        2,781,380 2,062,880 – – 718,500
At 31 December 2006
       Weighted average  Options Options Options Options Options 
       option price  outstanding exercised forfeited expired outstanding 
Year of grant Date exercisable     per share £ 1 Jan 2006 in year in year in year 31 Dec 2006
1990-1997 1 January 1999 to 15 December 2007   3.69 163,300 107,100 4,400 2,000 49,800
1998 1 January 2000 to 4 December 2008   3.96 5,357,700 2,721,620 – – 2,636,080
1999 4 January 2001 to 4 January 2009    3.31 120,100 24,600 – – 95,500
        5,641,100 2,853,320 4,400 2,000 2,781,380
 
The above share option prices have been calculated using a weighted average option price based on the shares outstanding at 31 December 2007 and converted to sterling 
using an exchange rate of £1.00 = rand 14.11 (2006: £1.00 = rand 12.51).
See following page for footnotes. 120 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Called-up share capital and share-based payments continued
Long Term Incentive Plan
(1)(3)
Ordinary shares of 54
86
/91 US cents (2006: 50 US cents) may be awarded for no consideration under the terms of this scheme. The number of shares outstanding  
is shown below:
At 31 December 2007
       Shares 
      Shares conditionally Shares Shares Shares Shares 
      outstanding awarded during  vested forfeited expired outstanding 
Year of grant Date exercisable/Vesting date    1 Jan 2007 the year in year in year in year 31 Dec 2007
2003 11 April 2006 to 10 April 2007    118,901 – 116,351 – 2,550 –
2004 25 March 2007    1,572,479 – 738,356 834,123 – –
2004 26 April 2007    170,323 – 79,975 90,348 – –
2004 1 September 2007    10,000 – 10,000 – – –
2005 2 April 2008    2,058,193 – 233,001 18,200 – 1,806,992
2005 1 June 2008     61,993 – – – – 61,993
2006 29 March 2009    1,492,252 – 31,618 36,911 – 1,423,723
2007 23 March 2010    – 1,766,921 – 6,350 – 1,760,571
     5,484,141 1,766,921 1,209,301 985,932 2,550 5,053,279
At 31 December 2006
       Shares 
      Shares conditionally Shares Shares Shares Shares 
      outstanding awarded during  vested forfeited expired outstanding 
Year of grant Date exercisable/Vesting date    1 Jan 2006 the year in year in year in year 31 Dec 2006
2002 25 May 2005 to 24 May 2006    64,829 – 64,829 – – –
2003 11 April 2006 to 10 April 2007    1,866,963 – 765,702 982,360 – 118,901
2004 25 March 2007    1,608,079 – – 35,600 – 1,572,479
2004 26 April 2007    170,323 – – – – 170,323
2004 1 September 2007    10,000 – – – – 10,000
2005 2 April 2008    2,098,393 – – 40,200 – 2,058,193
2005 1 June 2008    61,993 – – – – 61,993
2006 29 March 2009    – 1,499,652 – 7,400 – 1,492,252
      5,880,580 1,499,652 830,531 1,065,560 – 5,484,141
Bonus Share Plan
(4)
Ordinary shares of 54
86
/91 US cents (2006: 50 US cents) may be awarded under the terms of this scheme. The number of shares outstanding is as shown below:
At 31 December 2007
       Shares 
      Shares conditionally Shares Shares Shares Shares 
      outstanding awarded during  vested  forfeited expired outstanding 
Year of grant Performance period end date    1 Jan 2007 the year in year in year in year 31 Dec 2007
2004 31 December 2006    459,737 – 454,053 – – 5,684
2005 31 December 2007    2,293,706 – 381,423 64,470 – 1,847,813 
2006 31 December 2008    1,815,462 – 283,839 107,065 – 1,424,558 
2007 31 December 2009    – 1,643,559 81,808 17,463 – 1,544,288
      4,568,905 1,643,559 1,201,123 188,998 – 4,822,343
At 31 December 2006
       Shares 
      Shares conditionally Shares Shares Shares Shares 
      outstanding awarded during  vested  forfeited expired outstanding 
Year of grant Performance period end date    1 Jan 2006 the year in year in year in year 31 Dec 2006
2004 31 December 2006    497,738 – 38,001 – – 459,737
2005 31 December 2007    2,418,612 – 73,749 51,157 – 2,293,706
2006 31 December 2008    – 1,861,834 12,209 34,163 – 1,815,462
      2,916,350 1,861,834 123,959 85,320 – 4,568,905
Other share incentive schemes
During the year the Company operated a number of other share schemes under which ordinary shares of 54
86
/91 US cents may be awarded for no consideration.
     Awards outstanding at Awards outstanding at   
     31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Latest release date
Share incentive plan     921,574  1,112,139 7 December 2007
      921,574  1,112,139  
(1)
 The early exercise of share options is permitted at the discretion of the Company upon the termination of employment, ill health or death.
(2)
 The maturity period has been extended due to missed payments in terms of the scheme rules.
(3)
 The long term incentive awards are contingent on pre-established performance criteria being met. Further information in respect of this scheme is shown in the remuneration report.
(4)
  The Bonus Share Plan (BSP) was approved by shareholders in 2004 as a replacement for the ESOS and the Deferred Bonus Plan. Further information in respect of the BSP, including performance conditions, is shown in 
the remuneration report.  121 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
30. Reconciliation of changes in equity
     Attributable to equity shareholders of the Company
      Share- Cumulative  
    Total  based translation Fair value 
    share Retained payment adjustment and other Minority Total 
US$ million   capital
(1)
 earnings
 
reserve reserve reserves
 
interests equity
Balance at 1 January 2006   2,384 19,907 155 339 836 3,957 27,578
Total recognised income and expense   – 6,256 – (377) 136 603 6,618
Dividends paid   – (2,839) – – – – (2,839)
Dividends paid to minority interests   – – – – – (383) (383)
Shares issued and reclassification on conversion of bond  1,100 – – – (32) – 1,068
Convertible debt reserve transfer to retained earnings  – 109 – – (109) – –
Acquisition and disposal of businesses   – – – – – (1,454) (1,454)
Issue of shares to minority interests   – – – – – 37 37
Share buybacks   – (3,951) – – – – (3,951)
Purchase of shares for share schemes   – (19) – – – – (19)
Current tax on exercised employee share awards   – 34 – – – – 34
Share-based payment charges on equity settled schemes  – – 94 – – 14 108
Issue of shares under employee share schemes   – 286 (31) – – – 255
IFRS 2 charges arising on BBBEE and BEE transactions  – 28 – – – 6 34
Transfer between legal reserve and retained earnings  – (3) – – 3 – –
Revaluation reserve arising from acquisition of minority interests  – – – – (4) – (4)
Conversion of Anglo Platinum’s preference shares   – (62) – – – 62 –
Tax charged directly to equity relating to transactions with shareholders – (8) – – – (3) (11)
Tax credit on transactions with equity holders   – – 29 – 10 – 39
Other   – – – – – 17 17
Balance at 1 January 2007   3,484 19,738 247 (38) 840 2,856 27,127
Total recognised income and expense   – 7,276 – 58 1,891 844 10,069
Dividends paid   – (1,527) – – – – (1,527)
Dividends paid to minority interests   – – – – – (757) (757)
Dividend in specie relating to Mondi demerger   – (3,718) – – – – (3,718)
Acquisition, disposal and demerger of businesses   – 41 (45) – 112 (1,196) (1,088)
Issue of shares to minority interests   – – – – – 28 28
Share buybacks   – (6,167) – – – – (6,167)
Purchase of shares for share schemes   – (23) – – – – (23)
Share-based payment charges on equity settled schemes  – – 156 – – – 156
Issue of shares under employee share schemes   – 131 (94) – – – 37
Current tax on exercised employee share awards   – 23 – – – – 23
Group reinvestment of dividends in Anglo Platinum  – – – – – 86 86
Minority conversion of Anglo Platinum’s preference shares  – 45 – – – (45) –
Exercise of share options in Anglo Platinum   – – – – – 51 51
Cancellation of treasury shares   (33) – – – 33 – –
IFRS 2 charges arising on BBBEE and BEE transactions  – 33 – – – 35 68
Other   – 3 (2) – (3) (33) (35)
Balance at 31 December 2007   3,451 15,855 262 20 2,873 1,869 24,330
(1)
 Total share capital comprises called-up share capital of $738 million (2006: $771 million) and the share premium account of $2,713 million (2006: $2,713 million). 
Fair value and other reserves comprise:
      Convertible Available Cash flow  Total fair 
      debt for sale hedge Other value and  
US$ million     reserve reserve reserve reserves
(1)
 other reserves
Balance at 1 January 2006     131 54 (121) 772 836
Total recognised income and expense     – 437 (301) – 136
Reclassification on conversion of bond     (32) – – – (32)
Convertible debt reserve transfer to retained earnings    (109) – – – (109)
Transfer between legal reserve and retained earnings    – – – 3 3
Revaluation reserve arising from acquisition of minority interests    – – – (4) (4)
Tax credit on transactions with equity holders     10 – – – 10
Balance at 1 January 2007     – 491 (422) 771 840
Total recognised income and expense     – 1,889 2 – 1,891
Acquisition, disposal and demerger of businesses     – (7) 116 3 112
Cancellation of treasury shares     – – – 33 33
Other     – – – (3) (3)
Balance at 31 December 2007     – 2,373 (304) 804 2,873
(1)
  Other reserves comprise $689 million (2006: $693 million) legal reserve and $115 million (2006: $82 million) capital redemption reserve. In 2006, these balances were partially offset by a negative revaluation 
reserve of $4 million. 122 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Consolidated cash flow analysis
a) Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash inflows from continuing operations 
US$ million        2007 2006
(1)
Profit before tax – continuing operations        8,821 8,443
Depreciation and amortisation        1,398 1,414
Share-based payment charges        138 182
Special items and remeasurements of subsidiaries and joint ventures      (243) 102
Net finance costs before remeasurements        137 110
Fair value gains before special items and remeasurements       (12) (13)
Share of net income from associates        (197) (607)
Additional pension contributions        – (188)
Provisions        77 14
Increase in inventories        (352) (299)
Increase in operating receivables        (389) (602)
Increase in operating payables        53 511
Other adjustments        (56) (55)
Cash inflows from continuing operations         9,375 9,012
(1)
 Comparatives have been adjusted to exclude amounts relating to discontinued operations. 
b) Reconciliation to the balance sheet
     Cash and cash equivalents
(1)
 Short term borrowings
 
Medium and long term borrowings
US$ million    2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Balance sheet    3,129 3,004 (5,895) (2,028) (2,404) (4,220)
Balance sheet – disposal groups
(2)
    – 63 (31) (135) – (8)
Bank overdrafts    (17) (87) 17 87 – –
Bank overdrafts – disposal groups
(2)
    (38) – – – – –
Net debt classifications    3,074 2,980 (5,909) (2,076) (2,404) (4,228)
(1)
 Short term borrowings on the balance sheet include overdrafts which are included within cash and cash equivalents for net debt.
(2)
 Disposal group balances are shown as ‘Assets classified as held for sale’ and ‘Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale’ on the balance sheet. 
c) Movement in net debt
       Current 
    Cash and Debt due  Debt due financial asset  Net debt  Total net debt 
US$ million   cash equivalents
(1)
 within one year
 
after one year investments  excluding hedges Hedges
(2)
 including hedges
Balance at 1 January 2006   3,319 (1,965) (6,363) 16  (4,993) 13 (4,980)
Cash flow
(3)
   (170) (193) (374) (5) (742) – (742)
Acquisition and disposal of businesses
(4)
   – 224 1,480 (1) 1,703 – 1,703
Conversion to equity   – 311 757 – 1,068 – 1,068
Unwinding of discount on convertible debt   – – (13) – (13) – (13)
Reclassifications   – (509) 438 – (71) – (71)
Movement in fair value   – – 5 – 5 180 185
Other non-cash movements   – 6 (13) (14) (21) – (21)
Currency movements   (169) 50 (145) 4 (260) – (260)
Balance at 1 January 2007   2,980 (2,076) (4,228) – (3,324) 193 (3,131)
Cash flow
(3)
   34 (2,618) (1,334) – (3,918) – (3,918)
Acquisition, disposal and demerger of businesses   – 468 1,858 – 2,326 – 2,326
Reclassifications   – (1,394) 1,420 – 26 – 26
Movement in fair value   – (7) 10 – 3 195 198
Other non-cash movements   – – 18 – 18 – 18
Currency movements   60 (282) (148) – (370) – (370)
Balance at 31 December 2007   3,074 (5,909) (2,404) – (5,239) 388 (4,851)
(1)
  The Group operates in certain countries (principally South Africa and Venezuela) where the existence of exchange controls may restrict the use of certain cash balances. These restrictions are not expected to have any 
material effect on the Group’s ability to meet its ongoing obligations. 
(2)
  Derivative instruments that provide an economic hedge of assets and liabilities in net debt are included above to reflect the true net debt position of the Group at the year end. This consists of net current derivative 
assets of $396 million (2006: $6 million) and net non-current derivative liabilities of $8 million (2006: $187 million net assets) and are classified within other financial assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
(3)
  Cash flow on debt due within one year includes repayments of $162 million which relate to discontinued operations (2006: $228 million). Similarly, cash flow on debt due after one year includes receipts of 
$993 million (2006: $107 million) which relate to discontinued operations.
(4)
 Includes net debt of $1,917 million which was transferred to ‘Investments in associates’. 123 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
32. EBITDA by business segment
US$ million        2007 2006
By business segment   
Platinum        3,155 2,845
Diamonds        587 541
Coal
(1)
        882 1,082
Base Metals
(1)
        4,683 4,255
Ferrous Metals and Industries        1,561 1,560
Industrial Minerals
(1)
        732 539
Exploration        (157) (132)
Corporate Activities        (272) (259)
EBITDA – continuing operations        11,171 10,431
EBITDA – discontinued operations        961 1,766
EBITDA – total Group        12,132 12,197
(1)
  In 2007 Copebrás and Yang Quarry have been reclassified from Industrial Minerals to Base Metals and from Industrial Minerals to Coal respectively. This is to align with internal management reporting. The comparative 
data has been reclassified accordingly. 
EBITDA is stated before special items and remeasurements and is reconciled to ‘Total profit from operations and associates’ as follows:
US$ million        2007 2006
Total profit from operations and associates        8,929 8,514
Operating special items and remeasurements (including associates)      711 423
Net profit on disposals (including associates)        (484) (447)
Associates’ financing remeasurements        4 (1)
Depreciation and amortisation: subsidiaries and joint ventures       1,398 1,414
Share of associates’ interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and minority interests     613 528
EBITDA – continuing operations        11,171 10,431
EBITDA – discontinued operations        961 1,766
EBITDA – total Group        12,132 12,197 124 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
33. Discontinued operations
On 2 July 2007 the Paper and Packaging business was demerged from the Group by way of a dividend in specie paid to shareholders.
On 2 October 2007 the Group sold 67.1 million shares in AngloGold Ashanti Limited which reduced the Group’s shareholding from 41.6% to 17.3%. The Group’s 
representation on the company’s board was also withdrawn at this time. The remaining investment is accounted for as a financial asset investment. 
Both of these operations are considered discontinued.
The results of the discontinued businesses are shown below:
     Before special items Special items and 
     and remeasurements remeasurements 
US$ million    2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Revenue 4,062 8,081 – – 4,062 8,081
Total operating costs (3,741) (7,387) (10) (462) (3,751) (7,849)
Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures –  
discontinued operations 321 694 (10) (462) 311 232 
Net profit on disposals – – 119 903 119 903 
Share of net income from associates 97 119 (187) (41) (90) 78
Total profit from discontinued operations and associates 418 813 (78) 400 340 1,213
Net finance costs (19) (55) – (39) (19) (94)
Profit before tax – discontinued operations 399 758 (78) 361 321 1,119
Income tax (expense)/income (81) (165) 1 43 (80) (122)
Profit for the financial year – discontinued operations 318 593 (77) 404 241 997
Profit on partial disposal of AngloGold Ashanti
(1)
 – – 1,970 – 1,970 –
Transaction costs relating to the demerger of Mondi
(1)
 – – (10) – (10) –
Tax on net profit on disposal and demerger of discontinued operations – – (157) – (157) –
Net profit after tax on disposal and demerger of discontinued operations – – 1,803 – 1,803 –
Total profit for the financial year – discontinued operations 318 593 1,726 404 2,044 997
(1)
 For further details of the demerger of the Paper and Packaging business and disposal of AngloGold Ashanti refer to note 35.
 
Summary discontinued segment information
Segment revenue and segment result by discontinued business segment were:
      Segment result before special Segment result after special 
     Segment revenue
(1)
 items and remeasurements
(2)
 items and remeasurements
( 2) 
US$ million    2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Subsidiaries and joint ventures
Gold     – 857 – 228 – (142)
Paper and Packaging    4,062 7,224 321 466 311 374
Total subsidiaries and joint ventures    4,062
(3)
 8,081
(3)
 321 694 311 232
Revenue and net income from associates
Gold     1,004 883 95 113 (92) 72
Paper and Packaging    49 269 2 6 2 6
Total associates    1,053 1,152 97 119 (90) 78
Total discontinued operations including net income from associates  5,115 9,233 418 813 221 310
Net profit on disposals      – – 119 903
Total profit from discontinued operations and associates     418 813 340 1,213
(1)
  By-product revenue credited to Group cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2006 was $34 million and relates to AngloGold Ashanti’s contribution as a subsidiary; AngloGold Ashanti credit sales of uranium, 
silver and acid to cost of sales in accordance with the Gold Industry Standard on production cost.
(2)
  Segment result is defined as being segment revenue less segment expense; that is operating profit.
(3)
  This represents segment revenue; the Group’s share of associates of discontinued operations and discontinued associates’ revenue figures are provided for additional information.
  125 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
Employee numbers and costs – discontinued operations
The average number of employees, excluding associates’ employees and including 
a proportionate share of employees within joint ventures, was:
Thousands     2007 2006
By business segment
Gold
(1)
     – 15
Paper and Packaging
(2)
     16 34
Discontinued operations     16 49
 
(1)
  Includes employee numbers for AngloGold Ashanti for the period it was held as a subsidiary pro rated 
over the full year.
(2) 
 Includes employee numbers for Mondi for the period it was held as a subsidiary pro rated over the full year. 
Payroll costs in respect of the employees included in the table above were:
US$ million     2007 2006
Wages and salaries     473 1,114
Social security costs     95 175
Post retirement healthcare costs     1 1
Defined contribution pension plan costs    – 40
Defined benefit pension plan costs     2 12
Share-based payments     4 7
Discontinued operations     575 1,349
34. Acquisitions
Acquisition of subsidiaries
The Group made no material acquisitions of subsidiaries in the year ended 
31 December 2007.
In November 2006, Anglo Coal, Hillsborough Resources Limited and NEMI Northern 
Energy & Mining Inc. formed Peace River Coal Partnership, of which Anglo Coal 
held a 60% interest. Peace River Coal began production in late 2007. The total 
consideration was $89 million which consisted of contribution of assets to the 
partnership of $59 million and cash paid of $30 million. Anglo Coal held a 65.9% 
interest at 31 December 2007.
In the prior year, the Group also acquired a 100% interest in AltaSteel, including 
the remaining 50% of Moly-Cop Canada, on 1 February 2006, for a total cash 
consideration of $84 million (including transaction costs).
33. Discontinued operations continued
Summary discontinued special items and remeasurements
The following tables provide an analysis of special items and remeasurements for 
discontinued operations:
Subsidiaries and joint ventures’ special items and remeasurements  
– discontinued operations
Operating special items and remeasurements – discontinued operations
US$ million     2007 2006
Operating special items
(1)
     (13) (100)
Operating remeasurements
(2)
     3 (362)
Total operating special items and remeasurements  
– discontinued operations     (10) (462)
Tax      1 68
Minority interests     – 160
Net total attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 
 – discontinued operations     (9) (234)
 
(1)
  Includes impairment of Mondi Packaging assets of nil (2006: $80 million) and Mondi Business Paper 
assets of $5 million (2006: $24 million).
(2)
  2006 principally relates to unrealised net gains/(losses) on non-hedge derivatives of AngloGold Ashanti 
incurred during the period it was held as a subsidiary. 
Profits on disposals – discontinued operations
US$ million     2007  2006
Net profit on disposals
(1)
     119 903
Tax      (8) (24)
Net total attributable to equity shareholders of the Company  
– discontinued operations     111 879
 
(1)
   Net profit on disposals in 2007 includes part disposal of Mondi Packaging Paper Swiecie ($77 million) 
and disposal of Bischof + Klein ($26 million). In 2006 the net profit includes part and deemed disposals 
of AngloGold Ashanti (totalling $896 million). 
Financing special items and remeasurements – discontinued operations
US$ million     2007  2006
Financing special items     (2) –
Financing remeasurements
(1)
     2 (39)
Total financing special items and remeasurements  
– discontinued operations     – (39)
Tax      8 (1)
Minority interests     – 21
Net total attributable to equity shareholders of the Company  
– discontinued operations     8 (19)
 
(1)
   Financing remeasurements include fair value movements of nil (2006: $43 million loss) on the 
AngloGold Ashanti convertible bond. 
Total special items and remeasurements – discontinued operations
US$ million     2007  2006
Total special items and remeasurements before tax 
and minority interests – discontinued operations   109 402
Tax      1 43
Minority interests     – 181
Net total special items and remeasurements attributable to 
equity shareholders of the Company – discontinued operations  110 626
Associates’ special items and remeasurements – discontinued operations
US$ million     2007 2006
Associates’ operating special items and remeasurements
(1)
  (225) (106)
Associates’ net profit on disposals     7 17
Associates’ financing remeasurements
(2)
    13 25
Total associates’ special items and remeasurements before 
tax and minority interests – discontinued operations   (205) (64)
Tax      18 23
Net total associates’ special items and remeasurements  
– discontinued operations     (187) (41)
 
(1) 
 Includes net losses of $217 million (2006: $102 million) on non-hedge derivatives of AngloGold Ashanti 
incurred in the period it was held as an associate.
(2)
  Relates to fair value gains of $13 million (2006: $25 million) on the AngloGold Ashanti convertible bond 
incurred in the period it was held as an associate.  126 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
34. Acquisitions continued
The carrying value and fair value of the net assets at the date of acquisition and related net cash outflows are shown below:
         Total fair Total fair 
      Peace River Coal
(1)
  Other value value
      Fair Carrying Fair 
US$ million     value value value
 
2007 2006
Net assets acquired          
Tangible assets     166 70 148 314 257
Other non-current assets     1 13 11 12 48
Current assets     12 48 53 65 172
Current liabilities     (3) (47) (51) (54) (114)
Non-current liabilities     (14) (29) (52) (66) (98)
Minority interests     (65) (11) (15) (80) 7
      97 44 94 191 272
Add: Value attributable to reserves and resources acquired
(2)
    4  – 4 –
Less: Investments in associates previously recorded    –  (9) (9) –
Less: Fair value of assets contributed     (59)  – (59) –
Fair value of net assets acquired     42  85 127 272
Partial funding of partner cash calls     (12)  – (12) –
Goodwill arising on acquisitions     –  51 51 41
Negative goodwill arising on acquisitions     –  (2) (2) (10)
Total cost of acquisitions     30  134 164 303
Satisfied by      
Net cash acquired     –  11 11 (1)
Deferred consideration     –  – – 18
Cash paid in prior period     30  – 30 –
Net cash paid
(3)
     –  123 123 286
(1)
  Since 1 January 2007, the operating loss for Peace River Coal was $12 million. There was no profit or loss in the period from its creation to 31 December 2006. There has been no revenue in the year ended 
31 December 2007 or in the period since its creation to 31 December 2006. As the entity was formed as part of a business combination, there were no carrying values immediately prior to the combination.  
Owing to the timing and size of the acquisition, consolidation into the Group balance sheet only occurred in 2007.
(2)
 Represents the Group’s share of value (implicit in the transaction) of reserves and resources, capitalised within tangible assets.
(3)
  Includes net cash paid by discontinued operations of $9 million (2006: $144 million). 
In the first half of the year the Group acquired 3,353,108 shares in Anglo Platinum Limited through a dividend reinvestment plan. From 4 September 2007 to 31 December 2007, 
the Group purchased a further 4,435,086 shares for total consideration of $671 million. Of this, $658 million had been paid before the year end. The Group’s percentage 
holding has increased to 76.5% at 31 December 2007.
Acquisition of material joint venture
The Group made one material acquisition of a joint venture in the year ended 31 December 2007.
On 18 July 2007, the Group completed its acquisition of a 49% interest in the MMX Minas-Rio integrated iron ore project in Brazil (Minas-Rio). The acquisition was effected 
through the purchase of a 30% interest in the project companies – MMX Minas-Rio Mineração SA and LLX Minas-Rio Logística SA – from Centennial Asset Mining Fund LLC 
and the subscription for shares in the project companies equivalent to a 19% interest. The total acquisition cost of $1.2 billion comprises $1.15 billion plus transaction costs 
and provision for post closing adjustments. The Group’s 49% interest in Minas-Rio is accounted for as a joint venture entity and, hence, has been proportionately consolidated 
with effect from 18 July 2007.
The fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities in the table below are provisional, and will be finalised in 2008 when the final values arising from the fair value 
assessment are confirmed.
The carrying value and provisional fair value of the net assets at the date of acquisition and related net cash outflow are shown below:
          Minas-Rio
(1)
         Carrying Provisional 
US$ million        value fair value
Net assets acquired          
Tangible assets
 Value attributable to reserves and resources acquired       – 1,770
 Other tangible assets        84 86
Other non-current assets        16 16
Current assets        52 52
Current liabilities        (84) (84)
Non-current liabilities        (28) (632)
Fair value of net assets acquired and total cost of acquisition
(2)
       40 1,208
Satisfied by      
Net cash acquired         48
Deferred consideration         47
Costs accrued         1
Net cash paid         1,112
(1)
  Minas-Rio had no revenue for the year ended 31 December 2007. Since acquisition, it has contributed an operating loss of $15 million to the Group’s operating profit. Had the acquisition date been at 1 January 2007, 
the operating loss contributed would have been approximately double.
(2)
  A further potential payment of up to $600 million has not been included in the above as it is contingent on certain criteria being met. Payment of this amount was considered possible at 31 December 2007. 127 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
35. Disposals and demerger of subsidiaries and businesses
Disposals and demerger of subsidiaries
 
US$ million  2007 2006
Net assets disposed      
Tangible assets     6,197 7,925
Other non-current assets     1,208 1,027
Current assets     4,194 3,115
Current liabilities     (2,416) (2,878)
Non-current liabilities     (3,064) (4,683)
Net assets     6,119 4,506
Minority interests     (1,200) (1,679)
Group’s share of net assets immediately prior to disposal  4,919 2,827
Less: Retained investments in associates    (393) (1,451)
Less: Retained financial asset investments     (318) (370)
Less: Movement in share of assets arising on deemed disposal  – (170)
Add: Purchase price adjustment     – 10
Net assets disposed     4,208 846
Cumulative translation differences recycled from reserves  (334) (9)
Increase in minority share     – 220
Fair value losses arising on transactions    68 52
Other     3 13
Net gain on disposals     157 1,072
Dividend in specie relating to Mondi demerger    (3,718) –
Net sale proceeds     384 2,194
Net cash and cash equivalents disposed    (437) (283)
Non-cash proceeds     – (393)
Other     – 2
Costs accrued     4 –
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from disposals and demerger
(1)
  (49) 1,520
 
(1)
  Includes net cash outflow from disposals in relation to discontinued operations of $159 million 
(2006: inflow of $734 million). 
Disposals of subsidiaries recorded during the year principally include the demerger 
of Mondi, the completion of the disposal of Highveld and the dilution of an effective 
12% and 6% interest in Tongaat-Hulett and Hulamin, respectively. Details of these 
disposals are included below.
a) Mondi
On 2 July 2007, the Paper and Packaging business, Mondi, was demerged from the 
Group by way of a dividend in specie paid to shareholders.
The Paper and Packaging business has been presented as a discontinued operation. 
Refer to note 33 for further details of discontinued operations.
The net asset position at the date of disposal, together with the resulting dividend 
in specie paid to shareholders, is shown below:
US$ million   2007
Tangible assets      4,861
Other non-current assets      1,126
Current assets      3,072
Current liabilities      (1,533)
Non-current liabilities      (2,656)
Net assets      4,870
Minority interests      (476)
Group’s share of net assets immediately prior to disposal   4,394
Less: Retained financial asset investments
(1)
      (318)
Net assets disposed      4,076
Cumulative translation differences recycled from reserves   (358)
Dividend in specie relating to Mondi demerger     (3,718)
Net loss on disposal      (10)
Net sale costs      (10)
Net cash and cash equivalents disposed     (297)
Costs accrued      4
Net cash outflow from demerger of Mondi     (303)
 
(1)
  This relates to the dividend in specie paid to the investment companies Epoch, Epoch Two and Tarl and 
the shares paid to the Butterfield Trust. The Butterfield Trust shares were sold immediately. 
b) Highveld Steel and Vanadium Corporation (Highveld)
On 4 May 2007, the Group announced the disposal of the remaining 29.2% 
shareholding in Highveld to the Evraz Group SA (Evraz) for $238 million. Evraz 
was granted an option, subject to regulatory approvals, over this stake as part of 
the original transaction in which the Group sold 49.8% of Highveld to Evraz and 
Credit Suisse (in July 2006). Evraz exercised their option on 26 April 2007 following 
requisite regulatory approvals.
The net asset position of Highveld at 4 May 2007, together with the resulting profit 
on disposal of shares and related net cash inflow, is shown below:
US$ million   2007
Tangible assets      335
Other non-current assets      13
Current assets      360
Current liabilities      (338)
Non-current liabilities      (89)
Net assets      281
Minority interests      (211)
Net assets disposed      70
Cumulative translation differences recycled from reserves   25
Other      3
Net gain on disposal      140
Net sale proceeds      238
Net cash and cash equivalents disposed     (56)
Net cash inflow from disposal of Highveld     182
 
c) Tongaat-Hulett Group
In December 2006 the Tongaat-Hulett Group announced the proposed unbundling 
and listing of Hulamin and simultaneous introduction of BBBEE into both companies.
This transaction was effected on 25 June 2007, and empowerment parties acquired 
25% of Tongaat-Hulett and 15% of Hulamin’s operations. The Group commenced 
equity accounting both Tongaat-Hulett and Hulamin as of 25 June 2007. However, 
in accordance with SIC 12, Tongaat-Hulett and Hulamin are required to consolidate 
the entities housing the empowerment interests (as they supplied significant funding 
to these parties to effect the transaction). This has the effect, in accounting terms, 
of cancelling the shares issued to these parties. As a result, the Group has equity 
accounted 49.8% and 44.9% of Tongaat-Hulett and Hulamin, respectively. The 
Group’s legal interest in these companies at 31 December 2007 was 37.2% and 
38.4%, respectively.
Therefore from 25 June 2007 the Group ceased to account for Tongaat-Hulett and 
Hulamin as subsidiaries and began accounting for them as associates under the 
equity method.
The net asset position at the date of disposal, together with the reclassification 
to investments in associates and related net cash outflow, is shown below:
US$ million   2007
Tangible assets       959
Other non-current assets       49
Current assets      709
Current liabilities      (490)
Non-current liabilities      (305)
Net assets      922
Minority interests      (529)
Group’s share of Tongaat-Hulett’s and Hulamin’s net assets  
immediately prior to disposal      393
Less: Retained investments in associates immediately after disposal
(1)
  (393)
Net assets disposed      –
Fair value loss arising on transaction      68
Net loss on disposal      (68)
Net sale proceeds      –
Net cash and cash equivalents disposed     (84)
Net cash outflow from partial disposal of Tongaat-Hulett and Hulamin  (84)
 
(1)
  This relates to investments in associates of $176 million and $217 million in Tongaat-Hulett and  
Hulamin respectively.  Notes to the financial statements continued
128 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
35.  Disposals and demerger of subsidiaries and businesses continued
Disposal of associates
The Group made one material disposal of an associate in the year ended 
31 December 2007, which was the partial disposal of AngloGold Ashanti Limited.
AngloGold Ashanti
On 2 October 2007, the Group sold 67.1 million shares in AngloGold Ashanti  
Limited for $2.9 billion. This reduced the Group’s shareholding from 41.6% to 17.3%. 
The Group’s representation on the company’s board was also withdrawn at this time. 
The remaining investment is accounted for as a financial asset investment. The Gold 
business has been presented as a discontinued operation. Refer to note 33 for further 
details of discontinued operations.
The Group’s shareholding has reduced to 16.6% at 31 December 2007.
The net asset position at the date of the disposal, together with the reclassification 
to a ‘Financial asset investment’ and related net cash inflow, is shown below:
US$ million   2007
Investment in associate immediately prior to disposal    1,458
Less: Retained financial asset investment      (606)
Net assets disposed      852
Cumulative translation differences recycled from reserves   (3)
Other      29
Net gain on disposal      1,970
Net sale proceeds      2,848
Realised foreign exchange      15
Costs accrued      4
Net cash inflow from partial disposal of AngloGold Ashanti   2,867
 
Disposals of subsidiaries and businesses in the year ended  
31 December 2006
Significant disposals recorded during the year ended 31 December 2006 are 
summarised below. For details of these disposals refer to the 2006 Annual Report.
AngloGold Ashanti 
On 20 April 2006, the Group completed the sale of 19.7 million ordinary shares held 
in AngloGold Ashanti Limited for cash of $978 million. This, together with the Group’s 
non-participation in the issue of additional ordinary shares, throughout the year, by 
AngloGold Ashanti, diluted the Group’s percentage investment from 50.9% to 41.7%. 
With effect from that date, the Group ceased to account for AngloGold Ashanti as 
a subsidiary and began accounting for it as an associate under the equity method. 
The Group’s shareholding has subsequently reduced to 16.6%.
Kumba (non-iron ore) 
In November 2006, the Kumba Resources BEE transaction was effected. Kumba Iron 
Ore was accordingly unbundled from Kumba Resources (leaving the non-iron ore 
operations) which was renamed Exxaro. The Group retained a 64% interest in Kumba 
Iron Ore. The Group disposed of part of its investment in Exxaro through a share 
buyback and sale of shares. The Group retained an interest of 23% in Exxaro over 
which it does not exercise significant influence and accordingly this has been held 
as an available for sale financial asset since 28 November 2006. This interest has 
subsequently reduced to 10%.
Highveld Steel and Vanadium Corporation (Highveld)
In July 2006, the Group disposed of its 79% stake in Highveld to Evraz Group SA 
and Credit Suisse for a total consideration of $678 million. Following the disposal of 
the initial 49.8%, for which the Group received $412 million, and subject to certain 
regulatory approvals Evraz had an option to acquire the Group’s remaining 29.2% 
stake in Highveld for $266 million. This amount was to be reduced by any dividends 
paid by Highveld prior to the Group selling its remaining shares. The Group and Credit 
Suisse agreed that the Group would retain the voting rights in respect of the shares 
acquired by Credit Suisse until such time as the Group disposed of all its shares in 
Highveld. As a result, the Group continued to consolidate Highveld (while recording 
an increased minority interest) until the final disposal on 4 May 2007.
Anglo Platinum’s Rustenburg Platinum Mines
On 8 November 2006, Anglo Platinum announced the conclusion of the BEE 
transaction with the Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela (Bakgatla) traditional community. 
In terms of this transaction the Bakgatla acquired a 15% interest in Anglo 
Platinum’s Rustenburg Platinum Mines’ Union section mining and concentrating 
business and interests in prospecting rights of the Rooderand 46 JQ, portion 2 
and Magazynskraal 3 JQ properties. The agreements became unconditional on 
1 December 2006. 129 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
36. Disposal groups and non-current assets held for sale
Net assets relating to Highveld, which were previously classified as held for sale at 31 December 2006, were disposed of on 4 May 2007 as disclosed in note 35.
The following assets and liabilities relating to disposal groups were classified as held for sale. The Group expects to complete the sale of these businesses within 12 months 
of the year end.
      2007    2006
     Platinum 
    Namakwa disposal   Namakwa   
US$ million    Sands
(1)
 groups
(2)
 Total Highveld Sands Other Total
Intangible assets    3 – 3 – 2 4 6
Tangible assets    337 252 589 322 278 42 642
Biological assets    – – – – – 16 16
Environmental rehabilitation trusts    2 2 4 – 2 – 2
Investments in associates    – 74 74 – – 47 47
Financial asset investments    – – – 15 – 5 20
Other non-current assets    – – – – 1 – 1
Total non-current assets    342 328 670 337 283 114 734
Inventories    38 – 38 116 38 12 166
Trade and other receivables    50 – 50 160 41 24 225
Cash and cash equivalents    – – – 60 – 3 63
Total current assets    88 – 88 336 79 39 454
Total assets    430 328 758 673 362 153 1,188
Short term borrowings    – (69) (69) (134) – (1) (135)
Trade and other payables    (25) (28) (53) (166) (21) (46) (233)
Other current liabilities    – (4) (4) (4) – – (4)
Total current liabilities    (25) (101) (126) (304) (21) (47) (372)
Medium and long term borrowings    – – – (3) – (5) (8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges    (6) (3) (9) (23) (5) (2) (30)
Deferred tax liabilities    (84) (64) (148) (43) (72) (4) (119)
Retirement benefit obligations    (4) – (4) (15) (3) – (18)
Total non-current liabilities    (94) (67) (161) (84) (80) (11) (175)
Total liabilities    (119) (168) (287) (388) (101) (58) (547)
Net assets    311 160 471 285 261 95 641
(1)
  Namakwa Sands disposal group is included in the Base Metals business. Namakwa Sands continues to be held as a disposal group while awaiting approval of the conversion of old order to new order mining rights. 
The sale is expected to complete in 2008.
(2)
  This reflects the reclassification of operations to be sold under previously announced BEE deals. The split of the total assets, total liabilities and net assets is as follows:
US$ million          Total assets Total liabilities Net assets
Lebowa Platinum Mines Limited          243 (166) 77
Northam Platinum Mines Limited          74 – 74
Other          11 (2) 9
           328 (168) 160
 
The net carrying amount of assets and associated liabilities classified as held for sale during the year was written down by nil (2006: $28 million, after tax).
Industrial Minerals has not been classified as held for sale as the criteria in IFRS 5 were not met at 31 December 2007. 130 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
37 . Capital commitments 
US$ million     2007 2006
Contracted but not provided     2,373 1,886
38. Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. 
Additionally, and as set out in the demerger agreement, Anglo American and 
Mondi have agreed to indemnify each other, subject to certain limitations, against 
certain liabilities. Having taken appropriate legal advice, the Group believes that 
the likelihood of a material liability arising is remote. Contingent liabilities in respect 
of the Group’s subsidiaries comprise aggregate amounts of $488 million (2006: 
$214 million) in respect of loans and performance guarantees given to banks and 
other third parties and are primarily in respect of environmental restoration and 
decommissioning obligations. For information relating to contingent liabilities in 
respect of associates and joint ventures refer to notes 17 and 18 respectively.
At 31 December 2007, contingent liabilities of nil (2006: nil) were secured on the 
assets of the Group.
There were no significant contingent assets in the Group at either 31 December 2007 
or 31 December 2006.
The Venezuelan Ministry of Basic Industries and Mining (MIBAM) commenced 
administrative proceedings in January 2007 in relation to the 16 nickel exploration 
and exploitation concessions held by the Company’s subsidiary, Minera Loma 
de Níquel (MLdN) alleging that MLdN had failed to fulfil certain conditions of its 
concessions. MLdN submitted a timely response to MIBAM’s administrative writ 
in February 2007. By means of a series of resolutions published in two Official 
Gazettes made available in January 2008, MIBAM declared the termination of 13 of 
MLdN’s nickel concessions. The 13 concessions do not include the concessions where 
the current mining operations and the metallurgical facilities are located. MLdN is 
in the process of filing administrative appeals seeking the annulment of all of these 
resolutions and requesting that their effects be suspended pending a final decision 
by MIBAM.
At 31 December 2007 the Group’s interest in the book value of MLdN, including 
its mineral rights, was $616 million (as included in the Group’s balance sheet).  
In the 12 months to December 2007 MLdN’s contribution to Group operating profit 
was $370 million.
Anglo American is proud of its record in Venezuela where it has invested substantial 
amounts in exploration and subsequently the construction of the country’s only 
primary nickel producer. It is a major contributor to and employer in the Venezuelan 
economy as well as a significant tax payer. The operation continues, as it has always 
done, to work constructively with all stakeholders – employees, local communities 
and government – and to the highest sustainable development, social and 
environmental standards.
Anglo American and MLdN are seeking further clarification from MIBAM, with which 
they have maintained a constructive working relationship in the past. Anglo American 
and MLdN believe that there is a valid legal basis to reverse the notices of 
termination and will pursue all appropriate legal and other remedies and actions  
to protect their respective interests both under Venezuelan and international law.  
As a result, the Group continues to consolidate MLdN and no impairment has been 
recorded for the year ended 31 December 2007.
39. Operating leases
At 31 December 2007, the Group had the following outstanding commitments under 
non-cancellable operating leases: 
US$ million     2007 2006
Expiry date      
Within one year     52 93
One to two years     42 71
Two to five years     207 202
After five years     205 500
       506 866
 
Operating leases relate principally to land and buildings and vehicles. 
40. Related party transactions
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associates and joint 
ventures (see note 41).
At 31 December 2007, the Group held $131 million (2006: $175 million) of 10% 
non-cumulative redeemable preference shares in DB Investments, the holding 
company of De Beers Société Anonyme. 
The Company and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business, enter into 
various sales, purchase and service transactions with joint ventures and associates 
and others in which the Group has a material interest. These transactions are under 
terms that are no less favourable than those arranged with third parties. These 
transactions are not considered to be significant.
Dividends received from associates during the year totalled $275 million (2006:  
$241 million), excluding $52 million (2006: $35 million) from discontinued 
operations, as disclosed in the Consolidated cash flow statement.
During 2007 Anglo Coal made payments of $8 million in respect of wharfage charges 
to the Richards Bay Coal Terminal, an associate of Anglo Coal. 
The directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 3% (2006: 3%) 
of the voting shares of the Company. 
On 29 June 2007, the Group entered into a contract to sell the freehold property and 
all fixtures and fittings of a property owned by the Group to Mr A J Trahar, formerly 
Group Chief Executive, for total consideration of £6,991,800 ($14,026,943).  
This transaction was carried out at full market value and the proceeds were received 
by the Group following completion.
Remuneration and benefits received by directors are disclosed in the directors’ 
remuneration report. Remuneration and benefits of other key management personnel 
are given in note 6.
Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 28. 131 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
41. Group companies
The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and proportionately consolidated joint arrangements of the Group at 31 December 2007, and the Group percentage  
of equity capital, joint arrangements and joint venture interests are set out below. All these interests are held indirectly by the parent company and are consolidated within 
these financial statements. The Group has restricted the information to its principal subsidiaries as full compliance with Schedule 5 paragraph 15 of the Companies Act 1985 
would result in a statement of excessive length.
    Percentage of equity owned
(1)
Subsidiary undertakings Country of incorporation Business 2007 2006
Continuing operations
Platinum
Anglo Platinum Limited South Africa Platinum 76.5% 75.4%
Coal
Anglo Coal
(2)
 South Africa Coal 100% 100%
Anglo Coal Holdings Australia Limited Australia Coal 100% 100%
Peace River Coal Partnership Canada Coal 65.9% 60.0%
Base Metals
Black Mountain Mineral Development
(2)
 South Africa Zinc, lead and copper 100% 100%
Copebrás Limitada Brazil Fertilisers and sodium tripolyphosphate 73% 73%
Namakwa Sands
(2)
 South Africa Mineral sands 100% 100%
Gamsberg Zinc Corporation
(2)
 South Africa Zinc project 100% 100%
Anglo American Brasil Limitada (Barro Alto) Brazil Nickel project 100% 100%
Ambase Exploration (Namibia) Proprietary Limited (Skorpion) Namibia Zinc 100% 100%
Anglo American Brasil Limitada (Catalão) Brazil Niobium 100% 100%
Anglo American Sur SA (formerly Minera Sur Andes Limitada) Chile Copper 100% 100%
Anglo American Norte SA (formerly Empresa Minera de Mantos Blancos SA) Chile Copper 99.9% 99.9%
Anglo American Brasil Limitada (Codemin) Brazil Nickel 100% 100%
Minera Loma de Níquel, CA Venezuela Nickel 91.4% 91.4%
Minera Quellaveco SA Peru Copper project 81.9% 80.5%
Lisheen
(3)
 Ireland Zinc and lead 100% 100%
Ferrous Metals and Industries
   Steel, engineering works and   
Scaw Metals/Moly-Cop/AltaSteel South Africa/Chile/Canada  grinding media 74%-100% 100%
Highveld Steel and Vanadium Corporation Limited
(4)
 South Africa Steel, vanadium and ferroalloys – 29.2%
Kumba Iron Ore Limited South Africa Iron ore 63.4% 64.1%
Industrial Minerals
Tarmac Group Limited UK Construction materials 100% 100%
Tarmac France SA France Construction materials 100% 100%
Lausitzer Grauwacke GmbH Germany Construction materials 100% 100%
Tarmac Iberia SA Spain Construction materials 100% 100%
WKSM SA Poland Construction materials 100% 100%
Tarmac CZ a.s. Czech Republic Construction materials 100% 100%
Midland Quarry Products Limited UK Construction materials 50% 50%
Tarmac SRL Romania Construction materials 60% 60%
Koca Beton Agrega Mining and Construction Industry and Trading 
Company Limited Turkey Construction materials 100% 100%
Discontinued operations
Paper and Packaging
Mondi Business Papers SARL Luxembourg Business paper – 100%
Mondi South Africa Limited South Africa  Business paper – 100%
Mondi Packaging SARL Luxembourg Packaging – 100%
Mondi Packaging Paper Swiecie SA Poland Packaging – 71%
Mondi Packaging South Africa
 
South Africa Packaging  – 55%
Europapier AG Austria Austria Paper merchanting – 90%
(1) 
The proportion of voting rights of subsidiaries held by the Group is the same as the proportion of equity owned, unless stated.
(2)
 A division of Anglo Operations Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary.
(3)
  The Group’s interest in the Lisheen operations is held through Anglo American Lisheen Mining Limited, Killoran Lisheen Mining Limited and Lisheen Milling Limited. The Group owns 100% of the equity of each of 
these companies.
(4) 
 Highveld Steel and Vanadium was consolidated in the Group in 2006 due to an additional 24.9% of the voting rights that the Group controlled through shares held by Credit Suisse. The Group’s interest in Highveld was 
disposed of in May 2007. 132 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
41. Group companies continued
 
    Percentage of equity owned
(5)
Joint ventures Country of incorporation Business 2007 2006
Continuing operations
Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi SCM Chile Copper 44% 44%
United Marine Holdings Limited UK Construction materials 50% 50%
AI Futtain Tarmac Quarry Products Limited  Dubai Construction materials 49% 49%
MMX Minas-Rio Mineração SA Brazil Iron ore 49% –
LLX Minas-Rio Logística SA  Brazil Iron ore 49% –
Discontinued operations
Aylesford Newsprint Holdings Limited UK Newsprint – 50%
Mondi Shanduka Newsprint (Pty) Limited South Africa Newsprint – 50%
Associates
Continuing operations
DB Investments SA Luxembourg Diamonds 45% 45%
Queensland Coal Mine Management (Pty) Limited Australia Coal 33.3% 33.3%
Cerrejón Zona Norte SA Colombia Coal 33.3% 33.3%
Carbones del Cerrejón LLC Anguilla Coal 33.3% 33.3%
Carbones del Guasare SA Venezuela Coal 24.9% 24.9%
   Sugar, starch, glucose and property   
Tongaat-Hulett Limited
(6)
 South Africa  development 37.2% 50.3%
Hulamin Limited
(7)
 South Africa Aluminium 38.4% –
Samancor Holdings (Pty) Limited
(8)
 South Africa Manganese 40% 40%
Groote Eylandt Mining Company (Pty) Limited (GEMCO)
(8)
 Australia Manganese 40% 40%
Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company (Pty) Limited (TEMCO)
(8)
 Australia Manganese 40% 40%
Discontinued operations
Bischof + Klein GmbH   Germany  Packaging   – 40%
AngloGold Ashanti Limited
(9)
   South Africa  Gold   – 41.7%
 
    Percentage owned
Proportionately consolidated jointly controlled operations
(10)
 Location Business 2007 2006
Continuing operations
Drayton Australia Coal 88% 88%
Moranbah North Australia Coal 88% 88%
German Creek Australia Coal 70% 70%
Dawson Australia Coal 51% 51%
(5)
 All equity interests shown are ordinary shares.
(6) 
Formerly The Tongaat-Hulett Group Limited.
(7)
 Unbundled from Tongaat-Hulett in June 2007.
(8)
 These entities have a 30 June year end.
(9)
 The Group’s holding in AngloGold Ashanti was reduced to 16.6% during the year and is now held as a financial asset investment.
(10)
 The wholly owned subsidiary Anglo Coal Holdings Australia Limited holds the proportionately consolidated jointly controlled operations. 
42. Events occurring after end of year
On 17 January 2008, the Group announced that it was in exclusive discussions with the controlling shareholder of MMX Mineração e Metálicos SA (MMX) to acquire a 63.6% 
shareholding in a new company (‘Newco’) which will be demerged from MMX and will own MMX’s current 51% interest in the Minas-Rio iron ore project and 70% interest in 
the Amapá iron ore mine. After the acquisition of the 63.6% stake, Anglo American will offer to purchase the Newco shares held by the minority shareholders of Newco at 
the same price per share, for a total of approximately $5.5 billion on a 100% basis, or approximately $361.12 per Newco share (assuming one Newco share for each current 
MMX share), as well as royalty payments to MMX beginning in 2025 for the Minas-Rio project and 2023 for the Amapá mine.
On 26 January 2008, the Group acquired the remaining 50% shareholding in United Marine Holdings Limited from Hanson Quarry Products Europe Limited, a subsidiary of 
HeidelbergCement AG, for $110 million. 
With the exception of the above and the proposed final dividend for 2007, disclosed in note 11, there have been no material reportable events since 31 December 2007. 133 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
43. Financial statements of the parent company
a) Balance sheet of the Company, Anglo American plc
          
US$ million      Note  2007 2006
Fixed assets
Fixed asset investments      43c  12,883 12,875
Current assets
Amounts due from subsidiaries        208 630
Prepayments and other debtors        114 124
Cash at bank and in hand        – 2
         322 756
Creditors due within one year
Cash held on behalf of subsidiaries        (41) (70)
Amounts owed to subsidiaries        (596) (3,946)
Other creditors        (4) (4)
         (641) (4,020)
Net current liabilities        (319) (3,264)
Total assets less current liabilities        12,564 9,611
Net assets        12,564 9,611
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital       43b  738 771
Share premium account      43b  2,713 2,713
Capital redemption reserve      43b  115 82
Other reserves      43b  1,955 1,955
Share-based payment reserve      43b  22 15
Profit and loss account      43b  7,021 4,075
Total shareholders’ funds (equity)        12,564 9,611
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 19 February 2008.
Cynthia Carroll René Médori
Chief executive Finance director Notes to the financial statements continued
134 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Financial
statements
43. Financial statements of the parent company continued 
b) Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
   Called-up Share Capital  Share-based Convertible Profit 
   share premium redemption Other payment debt and loss 
US$ million  capital account reserve reserves
(1)
 reserve reserve account
(2)
 Total
Balance at 1 January 2006  747 1,637 82 1,955 9 131 4,193 8,754
Profit for the financial year  – – – – – – 3,511 3,511
Issue of treasury shares under employee  
share schemes  – – – – – – 265 265
Share-based payments  – – – – 6 – – 6
Shares issued and reclassification on  
conversion of bond  24 1,076 – – – (32) – 1,068
Convertible debt reserve transfer to 
retained earnings  – – – – – (109) 109 –
Deferred tax recognised in reserves  – – – – – 10 (2) 8
Share buybacks  – – – – – – (2,010) (2,010)
Dividends paid
(3)
  – – – – – – (1,991) (1,991)
Balance at 1 January 2007  771 2,713 82 1,955 15 – 4,075 9,611
Profit for the financial year  – – – – – – 11,404 11,404
Issue of treasury shares under employee  
share schemes  – – – – – – 143 143
Share-based payments  – – – – 11 – – 11
Capital contribution to group undertakings  – – – – – – 14 14
Cancellation of treasury shares  (33) – 33 – – – – –
Transfer between share-based payment  
reserve and profit and loss account  – – – – (4) – 4 –
Share buybacks  – – – – – – (2,383) (2,383)
Dividends paid
(3)
  – – – – – – (1,192) (1,192)
Dividend in specie relating to Mondi demerger  – – – – – – (5,044) (5,044)
Balance at 31 December 2007  738 2,713 115 1,955 22 – 7,021 12,564 
(1)
  At 31 December 2007 other reserves of $1,955 million (2006: $1,955 million) were not distributable under the Companies Act 1985.
(2)  
At 31 December 2007 $421 million (2006: $358 million) of the Company profit and loss account of $7,021 million (2006: $4,075 million) was not distributable under the Companies Act 1985.
(3)
  Dividends paid relate only to shareholders on the United Kingdom principal register excluding dividends waived by Greenwood Nominees Limited as nominees for Butterfield Trust (Guernsey) Limited, the trustee for 
the Anglo American employee share scheme. Dividends paid to shareholders on the Johannesburg branch register are distributed by a South African subsidiary in accordance with the terms of the Dividend Access Share 
Provisions of Anglo American plc’s Articles of Association. 
The audit fee in respect of the parent company was $32,000 (2006: $28,000).
c) Fixed asset investments
        2007  2006
        Investments  Investments 
US$ million       in subsidiaries  in subsidiaries
Cost
At 1 January       12,883  12,883
Additions       5,093  –
Capital contributions       14  –
Disposals and demerger       (5,099)  –
At 31 December       12,891  12,883
Provisions for impairment
At 1 January       (8)  (8)
Charge for the year       –  –
At 31 December       (8)  (8)
Net book value   
At 31 December       12,883  12,875 135 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Financial  
statements
43. Financial statements of the parent company continued 
d) Accounting policies: Anglo American plc, the Company
The Anglo American plc (the Company) balance sheet and related notes have 
been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (UK GAAP) and in accordance with UK company law. The financial 
information has been prepared on a historical cost basis as modified by the 
revaluation of certain financial instruments.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP requires the 
use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts 
of revenues and expenses during the period. Although these estimates are based 
on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, following 
implementation of these standards, actual results may differ from those estimated.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account  
of the Company is not presented as part of these financial statements. The profit 
after tax for the year of the Company amounted to $11,404 million (2006: 
$3,511 million).
Significant accounting policies
Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is provided in full on all timing differences that result in an 
obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax,  
at a future date, subject to the recoverability of deferred tax assets. Deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Share-based payments
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based Payment. 
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of 
equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 1 January 2005.
The Company makes equity settled share-based payments to the directors, which are 
measured at fair value at the date of grant. For those share schemes which do not 
include non-market vesting conditions, the fair value is determined using the Monte 
Carlo method at the grant date and expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Company’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. The fair 
value of share options issued with non-market vesting conditions has been calculated 
using the Black Scholes model. For all other share awards, the fair value is determined 
by reference to the market value of the share at the date of grant. For all share 
schemes with non-market related vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has 
been taken into account when determining the associated charge. Vesting assumptions 
are reviewed during each reporting period to ensure they reflect current expectations.
The Company also makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees 
of certain subsidiary undertakings. Equity settled share-based payments that are 
made to employees of the Company’s subsidiaries are treated as increases in equity 
over the vesting period of the award, with a corresponding increase in the Company’s 
investments in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will 
eventually vest.
Any payments received from subsidiaries are applied to reduce the related increases 
in investments in subsidiaries.
Accounting for share-based payments is the same as under IFRS 2 and details on the 
schemes and option pricing models relevant to the charge included in the Company 
financial statements are set out in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements 
of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Investments
Investments represent equity holdings in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 
and are held at cost less provision for impairment.
Convertible debt
Convertible bonds denominated in the functional currency of the entity issuing 
the shares are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of a liability and an 
equity component. At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is 
estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt 
and is recorded within borrowings. The difference between the proceeds of issue 
of the convertible bond and the fair value assigned to the liability component, 
representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the 
Company, is included in equity. 
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the 
convertible bonds where appropriate based on their relative carrying amounts 
at the date of issue. The portion relating to the equity component is charged 
directly against equity.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the 
effective interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component 
of the instrument. The difference between this amount and the interest paid is 
added to the carrying amount of the convertible bond. Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates
Introduction
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates presented in this Annual Report are prepared in accordance with the Anglo American plc Policy 
for the Reporting of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources*. This policy requires that the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, 
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves 2004 edition (the JORC Code) be used as a minimum standard. Some Anglo American plc subsidiaries have 
a primary listing in South Africa where public reporting is carried out in accordance with the South African Code for Reporting of Mineral 
Resources and Mineral Reserves (the SAMREC Code). The SAMREC Code is similar to the JORC Code and the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource 
terminology appearing in this section follows the definitions in both the JORC (2004) and SAMREC (2007) Codes.
The information on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources was prepared by or under the supervision of Competent Persons as defined in the  
JORC or SAMREC Codes, which include the Recognised Overseas Professional Organisation (ROPO) recognition agreements. All Competent 
Persons have sufficient experience relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity which they 
are undertaking. All the Competent Persons consent to the inclusion in this report of the matters based on their information in the form and 
context in which it appears. The names of the Competent Persons are lodged with the Anglo American plc Company Secretary and are available 
on request.
Anglo American Group companies are subject to a comprehensive programme of reviews aimed at providing assurance in respect of Ore Reserve 
and Mineral Resource estimates. The reviews are conducted by suitably qualified Competent Persons from within a particular division, another 
division of the Group or from independent consultants. The frequency and depth of the reviews is a function of the risks and/or uncertainties 
associated with a particular Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource, the overall value thereof and time that has lapsed since an independent third 
party review has been conducted. Those operations/projects subject to independent third party reviews during the year are indicated in footnotes  
to the tables.
The JORC and SAMREC Codes require the use of reasonable economic assumptions. These include long-range commodity price forecasts which are 
prepared by in-house specialists largely using estimates of future supply and demand and long term economic outlooks. Ore Reserve estimates 
are dynamic and are influenced by changing economic conditions, technical issues, environmental regulations and relevant new information and 
therefore can vary from year to year. Mineral Resource estimates also change and tend to be influenced mostly by new information pertaining 
to the understanding of the deposit and secondly by the conversion to Ore Reserves.
The estimates of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are stated as at 31 December 2007. Production forecasts for November and December 
have been used to produce the estimates of the reported reserve figures. Unless otherwise stated, Mineral Resources are additional to those 
resources which have been modified to produce the Ore Reserves. The figures in the tables have been rounded and, if used to derive totals  
and averages, could cause minor computational differences. Ore Reserves in the context of this Annual Report have the same meaning as 
‘Mineral Reserves’ as defined by the SAMREC Code. Metric units are used throughout the report. In addition alternative units are also used  
for Anglo Platinum.
AngloGold Ashanti is not reported as the Group’s shareholding has reduced to 16.6% at 31 December 2007, below the internal threshold for 
reporting. Details of AngloGold Ashanti’s 2007 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources can be found on their website. Highveld and Mondi (reported 
previously as Paper & Packaging) are not reported as these businesses have been respectively disposed of and demerged during 2007. 
*  A ‘Mineral Resource’ is a concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earth’s crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are 
reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction. The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated 
or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge. Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and 
Measured categories.
  An ‘Inferred Mineral Resource’ is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a low level of confidence. It is inferred 
from geological evidence and assumed but not verified geological and/or grade continuity. It is based on information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations 
such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes which may be limited or of uncertain quality and reliability.
  An ‘Indicated Mineral Resource’ is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated 
with a reasonable level of confidence. It is based on exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, 
trenches, pits, workings and drill holes. The locations are too widely or inappropriately spaced to confirm geological and/or grade continuity but are spaced closely enough for 
continuity to be assumed.
  A ‘Measured Mineral Resource’ is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated  
with a high level of confidence. It is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such 
as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes. The locations are spaced closely enough to confirm geological and grade continuity.
  An ‘Ore Reserve’ is the economically mineable part of a Measured and/or Indicated Mineral Resource. It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which may 
occur when the material is mined. Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, 
metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors. These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could 
reasonably be justified. Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
  A ‘Probable Ore Reserve’ is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource. It includes diluting materials and 
allowances for losses which may occur when the material is mined. Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification 
by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors. These assessments demonstrate at the time of 
reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
  A ‘Proved Ore Reserve’ is the economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource. It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the 
material is mined. Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, 
economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors. These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably 
be justified.
Other information
136 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007  
In South Africa, the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development Act, Number 28 of 2002 (MPRDA) was implemented on 1 May 2004, 
and effectively transferred custodianship of the previously privately held mineral rights to the State. Mining companies were given up to two 
years to apply for prospecting permit conversions and five years to apply for mining licence conversions for existing operations.
A Prospecting Right is a new order right that is valid for up to five years, with the possibility of a further extension of three years, that can 
be obtained either by the conversion of existing old order prospecting permits or through new applications. An Exploration Right is identical 
to a Prospecting Right, but is commodity specific in respect of petroleum and gas and is valid for up to three years which can be renewed for 
a maximum of three periods not exceeding two years each.
A Mining Right is a new order right valid for up to 30 years obtained either by the conversion of an old order mining licence, or as a new order 
right pursuant to the exercise of the exclusive right of the holder of a new order Prospecting Right, or pursuant to an application for a new  
Mining Right. A Production Right is identical to a Mining Right, but is commodity specific in respect of petroleum and gas.
In preparing the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource statement for South African assets, Anglo American plc has adopted the following reporting 
principles in respect of Prospecting Rights and Mining Rights:
 
•  Where applications for new order Mining Rights and Prospecting Rights have been submitted and these are still being processed by the 
relevant regulatory authorities, the relevant reserves and resources have been included in the statement;
 
•    Where applications for the conversion of old order mining licences to new order Mining Rights have not yet been submitted and the required 
deadline (typically April 2009) for submission has not passed, the relevant reserves and resources have been included in the statement;
 
•   Where applications for new order Prospecting Rights have been initially refused by the regulatory authorities, but are the subject of ongoing 
legal process and discussions with the relevant authorities and where Anglo American plc has reasonable expectations that the Prospecting 
Rights will be granted in due course, the relevant resources have been included in the statement (any associated comments appear in 
the footnotes).
Other 
information
 
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 137 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates continued
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Platinum
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources 
and Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2004) as a minimum standard. Where relevant, the estimates were also prepared in compliance with regional 
codes and requirements (e.g. The South African Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, The SAMREC Code, 2007). 
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies. The Mineral Resources are additional to the Ore Reserves. Merensky and UG2 Reef 
Mineral Resources are reported over an economic and mineable cut appropriate to the specific reef. The mineable cuts collectively form the basis 
of the consolidated reef figures. Details of the individual operations appear in the Anglo Platinum Annual Report. The figures reported represent 
100% of the Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves attributable to Anglo Platinum Limited unless otherwise noted. Anglo American plc’s interest 
in Anglo Platinum is 76.53%.
    Tonnes
(1)
  Grade
(2)
  Contained metal Contained metal
Anglo Platinum   million  g/t  tonnes million troy ounces
Ore Reserves Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Merensky Reef
(3)(4)
      4E PGE   4E PGE   Moz Moz
  Proved   8 8 . 7   95.5 5 . 2 2   5.54 4 6 2 . 6   529.1 1 4 . 9   17.0
  Probable   1 1 7 . 2   105.9 5 . 1 1   5.78 5 9 8 . 5   612.4 1 9 . 2   19.7
    T o t a l   205.8 2 0 1 . 4   5.16 5 . 6 7   1,061.1 1 , 1 4 1 . 5   34.1 3 6 . 7
UG2 Reef
(5)(6)
      4E PGE   4E PGE   Moz Moz
  Proved   4 1 5 . 7   347.2 4 . 3 7   4.57  1 , 8 1 6 . 0   1,585.1 5 8 . 4   51.0
  Probable   4 1 3 . 5   403.5 4 . 3 2   4.37  1 , 7 8 7 . 1   1,761.6 5 7 . 5   56.6
    T o t a l   829.2 7 5 0 . 7   4.35 4 . 4 6     3,603.1 3 , 3 4 6 . 7   115.8 1 0 7 . 6
Platreef
(7)(8)
      4E PGE   4E PGE   Moz Moz
  Proved   2 8 4 . 6   319.6 3 . 2 4   3.27 9 2 3 . 2   1,045.5 2 9 . 7   33.6
  Proved primary ore stockpile 
(9)
   1 9 . 8   16.4 2 . 5 4   2.66 5 0 . 1   43.7 1 . 6   1.4
  Probable   1 1 4 . 0   110.8 3 . 5 1   3.67 40 0 . 1   406.9 1 2 . 9   13.1
    T o t a l   418.3 4 4 6 . 9   3.28 3 . 3 5     1,373.4 1 , 4 9 6 . 0   44.2 4 8 . 1
All Reefs      4E PGE   4E PGE   Moz Moz
  Proved   80 8 . 6   778.7 4 . 0 2   4.11 3 , 2 5 1 . 9   3,203.3 1 0 4 . 6   103.0
  Probable   6 4 4 . 6   620.3 4 . 3 2   4.48 2 , 7 8 5 . 7   2,781.0 8 9 . 6   89.4
    T o t a l   1,453.3 1 , 3 9 9 . 0   4.15 4 . 2 8   6,037.6 5 , 9 8 4 . 2   194.1 1 9 2 . 4
    T o t a l   ( a l t e r n a t i v e   u n i t s )
 (10) 
 1,601.9Mton 1 , 5 4 2 . 1 M t o n   0.121oz/t 0 . 1 2 5 o z / t     
Tailings
(11)
      4E PGE   4E PGE   Moz Moz
  Proved   –   – –   – –   – –     –
  Probable   3 8 . 6   43.6 0 . 9 2   1.00 3 5 . 5   43.7 1 . 1     1.4
    T o t a l   38.6 4 3 . 6   0.92 1 . 0 0   35.5 4 3 . 7   1.1 1 . 4
    T o t a l   ( a l t e r n a t i v e   u n i t s )
    (10)  
 42.6Mton 4 8 . 1 M t o n   0.027oz/t 0 . 0 2 9 o z / t      
 
(1)
 T o nna ge : quoted as metric tonnes.
(2)
 G r a de :  4E PGE is the sum of platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold grades in grammes per tonne (g/t).
(3)
  M e r e n s k y   R e e f : The reserve pay-limit varies across all operations between 1.3g/t and 4.8g/t. The variability is a function of various factors including the depth of the 
orebody, geological complexity and infrastructure.
(4)
  M e r e n s k y   R e e f : The decrease in the reserve grade is mainly a function of changes occurring at BRPM and Amandelbult.  
BRPM – changes in the mining method and mine design resulted in a higher stope width and consequent drop in grade. 
Amandelbult – in-fill drilling revealed increased geological complexity resulting in a drop in the resource grade. The drop in the resource grade plus a change in the modifying 
factors resulted in a decrease in the reserve grade.
(5)
  U G 2   R e e f : The reserve pay-limit varies across all operations between 1.3g/t and 4.4g/t. The variability is a function of various factors including the depth of the orebody, 
geological complexity and infrastructure.
(6)
  U G 2   R e e f : The increase in reserve tonnage is mainly due to conversion of resources to reserves as a result of Pre-Feasibility studies completed for Rustenburg Section (Frank 
and Turffontein).
(7)
  P l a tr e e f :  The reserve cut-off is 1.7g/t for fresh ore and 3.0g/t for weathered/oxidised ore.
(8)
  P l a tr e e f :  A programme of blast-hole drilling indicated higher than expected proportions of oxidised material below the economically recoverable grade. Approximately half of 
the tonnage (~15Mt) was removed as waste and the remainder has been removed from the Ore Reserve due to the change in cut-off grade applied to the oxidised zone. 
(9)
 P l a tr e e f   s t o c k p i l e s : These are reported separately as Proved Ore Reserves and aggregated into the summation tabulations. 
(10)
 A l t e r na t i v e   u ni t s :  tonnage in million short tons (Mton) and grade in troy ounces per short ton (oz/t).
(11)
 T a i l i n g s :  These are reported separately as Ore Reserves but are not aggregated in the total Ore Reserve figures. Operating tailings dams for current mining operations   
 cannot be geologically assessed and therefore are not reported as part of the Ore Reserves. At Rustenburg and Union Section historical dams have been evaluated and the   
 tailings are included in the Ore Reserves statement.
The following operations and projects were reviewed during 2007 by independent consultants:  
Amandelbult Section, Lebowa Platinum Mines, PPRust, Rustenburg Section, Union Section,  
Booysendal Project, Der Brochen Project, BRPM (Styldrift), Twickenham Platinum.
 
Other 
information
138 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007     Tonnes
(1)
  Grade
(2)
  Contained metal Contained metal
Anglo Platinum   million  g/t  tonnes million troy ounces
Mineral Resources
 
Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Merensky Reef
(3)(4)(5)
      4E PGE   4E PGE   Moz Moz
  Measured   1 0 7 . 8   96.4 5 . 3 3   5.42 5 7 4 . 4   523.0 1 8 . 5   16.8
  Indicated   2 7 6 . 5   248.3 5 . 2 9   5.39 1 , 4 6 2 . 7   1,337.8 4 7 . 0   43.0
    M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   384.3   3 4 4 . 7   5.30 5 . 40   2,037.1 1 , 8 6 0 . 7   65.5 5 9 . 8
  Inferred   8 7 6 . 5   1,095.9 5 . 2 9   5.48 4 , 6 3 3 . 0   6,010.9 1 4 9 . 0   193.3
    T o t a l   1,260.8 1 , 4 40 . 6   5.29 5 . 4 6   6,670.1 7 , 8 7 1 . 6   214.4 2 5 3 . 1
UG2 Reef
(3)(6)(7)
      4E PGE   4E PGE   Moz Moz
  Measured   3 3 7 . 2   312.3 5 . 6 9   5.52 1 , 9 1 9 . 0   1,725.3 6 1 . 7   55.5
  Indicated   4 9 9 . 7   634.3 5 . 3 8   5.37 2 , 6 8 6 . 9   3,404.9 8 6 . 4   109.5
    M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   836.9   9 4 6 . 6   5.50 5 . 4 2   4,605.9 5 , 1 3 0 . 3   148.1 1 6 4 . 9
  Inferred   1 , 2 2 3 . 2   1,321.4 5 . 2 2   5.54 6 , 3 7 9 . 8   7,325.5 2 0 5 . 1   235.5
    T o t a l   2,060.0 2 , 2 6 8 . 0   5.33 5 . 4 9   10,985.7 1 2 , 4 5 5 . 7   353.2 40 0 . 5
Platreef
(8)(9)
      4E PGE   4E PGE   Moz Moz
  Measured   1 7 6 . 8   158.8 1 . 9 3   1.91 3 40 . 8   303.2 1 1 . 0   9.7
  Indicated   7 9 0 . 6   791.2 2 . 2 1   2.22 1 , 7 4 9 . 4   1,757.7 5 6 . 2   56.5
    M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   967.4   9 5 0 . 0   2.16 2 . 1 7   2,090.2 2 , 0 6 1 . 0   67.2 6 6 . 3
  Inferred   1 , 40 8 . 0   1,449.4 1 . 8 8   1.82 2 , 6 4 7 . 7   2,643.9 8 5 . 1   85.0
    T o t a l   2,375.4 2 , 3 9 9 . 4   1.99 1 . 9 6   4,737.9 4 , 7 0 4 . 9   152.3 1 5 1 . 3
All Reefs      4E PGE   4E PGE   Moz Moz
  Measured   6 2 1 . 8   567.6 4 . 5 6   4.50 2 , 8 3 4 . 2   2,551.5 9 1 . 1   82.0
  Indicated   1 , 5 6 6 . 8   1,673.8 3 . 7 7   3.88 5 , 8 9 9 . 0   6,500.5 1 8 9 . 7   209.0
    M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   2,188.6 2 , 2 4 1 . 4   3.99 4 . 0 4   8,733.2 9 , 0 5 2 . 0   280.8 2 9 1 . 0
  Inferred   3 , 5 0 7 . 6   3,866.7 3 . 8 9   4.13 1 3 , 6 6 0 . 5   15,980.3 4 3 9 . 2   513.8
    T o t a l   5,696.2 6 , 1 0 8 . 1   3.93 4 . 1 0   22,393.7 2 5 , 0 3 2 . 3   720.0 80 4 . 8
    T o t a l   ( a l t e r n a t i v e   u n i t s )  
  ( 1 0 )
  6,278.9Mton 6 , 7 3 2 . 9 M t o n   0.115oz/t 0 . 1 2 0 o z / t    
Tailings
(11)
      4E PGE   4E PGE   Moz Moz
  Measured   –   – –   – –   – –   –
  Indicated   1 5 1 . 4   152.3 1 . 0 5   1.06 1 5 9 . 7   160.9 5 . 1   5.2
    M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   151.4   1 5 2 . 3   1.05 1 . 0 6   159.7 1 6 0 . 9   5.1 5 . 2
  Inferred   –   – –   – –   – –   –
    T o t a l   151.4 1 5 2 . 3   1.05 1 . 0 6   159.7 1 6 0 . 9   5.1 5 . 2
    T o t a l   ( a l t e r n a t i v e   u n i t s )  
  ( 1 0 )
    166.9Mton 1 6 7 . 9 M t o n   0.031oz/t 0 . 0 3 1 o z / t     
 
(1)
 T o nna ge : quoted as metric tonnes.
(2)
 G r a de : 4E PGE is the sum of platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold grades in grammes per tonne (g/t).
(3)
  M e r e n s k y   a n d   U G 2   R e e f s : Due to the South African Department of Minerals and Energy’s (DME) refusal to grant certain Prospecting Right applications and an undertaking by 
Anglo Platinum Limited not to advance legal proceedings, pending negotiations with the DME and third parties, the following Mineral Resource estimates are not included: 
Merensky Reef: 161.3Mt @ 5.78g/t (30.0Moz), UG2 Reef: 189.5Mt @ 6.00g/t (36.5Moz); 
94.6% of the above mentioned combined Merensky and UG2 Reef Mineral Resources are in the Inferred Resource category; 
The 66.5Moz reflects a loss of 8.5% of Anglo Platinum’s total Mineral Resources.
(4)
  M e r e n s k y   R e e f :  Depending on the reef characteristics a 2.5g/t to 3.0g/t cut-off has been used to identify Mineral Resources. 
(5)
  M e r e n s k y   R e e f : Measured and Indicated resource tonnages increased mainly due to in-fill drilling leading to increased confidence in the estimates at the Der Brochen and 
Booysendal projects. At Union Section, updated economic assumptions showed that the area below 28 level is currently no longer economically viable and therefore reserve 
tonnes have been re-allocated to resources. 
(6)
   U G 2   R e e f : A 1.8g/t cut-off has been used to identify Mineral Resources.
(7)
   U G 2   R e e f : A decrease in the total Measured and Indicated Resource tonnages is mainly as a result of conversion of resources to reserves at Rustenburg Section due to the 
completion of Pre-Feasibility studies for Frank and Turffontein, and a re-evaluation at Der Brochen due to new information highlighting higher geological complexity.
(8)
   P l a tr e e f : A 1.0g/t cut-off has been used to identify Mineral Resources.
(9)
   P l a tr e e f : In-fill drilling resulted in geological re-interpretation, increased confidence and a consequent increase of Measured Resources.
(10)
 A l t e r na t i v e   u ni t s : tonnage in million short tons (Mton) and grade in troy ounces per short ton (oz/t).
(11)
  T a i l i n g s : These are reported separately as Mineral Resources but are not aggregated in the total Mineral Resource figures. Operating tailings dams for current mining operations 
cannot be geologically assessed and therefore are not reported as part of the Mineral Resources. At Rustenburg and Union Section historical dams have been evaluated and the 
tailings are included in the Mineral Resource statement.
 
Other 
information
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 139 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates continued
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Platinum continued
Anglo Platinum   Tonnes
(1)
  Grade
(2)
  Contained metal Contained metal
Ore Reserves
   million  g/t  tonnes million troy ounces
O t h e r   P r o j ec t s Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Zimbabwe      4E PGE   4E PGE   Moz Moz
 Unki – Great Dyke Proved   5 . 2   5.2   3 . 6 0   3.60 1 8 . 8   18.8 0 . 6   0.6
  Probable   4 3 . 2   43.2 3 . 8 1   3.81 1 6 4 . 5   164.5 5 . 3   5.3
    T o t a l   48.4 4 8 . 4   3.78 3 . 7 8   183.3 1 8 3 . 3   5.9 5 . 9
    T o t a l   ( a l t e r n a t i v e   u n i t s )  
(3)
  53.4Mton 5 3 . 4 M t o n   0.110oz/t 0 . 1 1 0 o z / t    
Anglo Platinum   Tonnes
(1)
  Grade
(2)
  Contained metal Contained metal
Mineral Resources
   million  g/t  tonnes million troy ounces
O t h e r   P r o j ec t s Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Zimbabwe       4E PGE   4E PGE   Moz Moz
 Unki – Great Dyke Measured   7 . 9   7.9 4 . 0 8   4.08 3 2 . 1   32.1 1 . 0   1.0
  Indicated   1 1 . 7   11.7 4 . 2 8   4.28 4 9 . 9   49.9 1 . 6   1.6
    M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   19.5 1 9 . 5   4.20 4 . 2 0   82.0 8 2 . 1   2.6 2 . 6
  Inferred   9 8 . 7   98.7 4 . 2 9   4.29 4 2 3 . 5   423.5 1 3 . 6   13.6
    T o t a l   118.2 1 1 8 . 2   4.28 4 . 2 8   505.5 5 0 5 . 6   16.3 1 6 . 3
    T o t a l   ( a l t e r n a t i v e   u n i t s )  
(3)
  130.3Mton 1 3 0 . 3 M t o n   0.125oz/t 0 . 1 2 5 o z / t     
South Africa       3E PGE   3E PGE   Moz Moz
 Anooraq-Anglo Platinum Boikantsho
(4)
 Platreef Measured   –   – –   – –   – –   –
  Indicated   8 8 . 3   88.3 1 . 3 5   1.35 1 1 9 . 2   119.3 3 . 8   3.8
    M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   88.3 8 8 . 3   1.35 1 . 3 5   119.2 1 1 9 . 3   3.8 3 . 8
  Inferred   5 2 . 0   52.0 1 . 2 3   1.23 6 4 . 0   64.0 2 . 1   2.1
    T o t a l   140.4 1 40 . 4   1.31 1 . 3 1   183.2 1 8 3 . 3   5.9 5 . 9
    T o t a l   ( a l t e r n a t i v e   u n i t s )  
(3) 
  154.7Mton 1 5 4 . 7 M t o n   0.038oz/t 0 . 0 3 8 o z / t     
 Sheba’s Ridge
(5)
      3E PGE   3E PGE   Moz Moz
  Measured   1 3 8 . 2   143.1 0 . 8 7   0.74 1 2 0 . 4   106.3 3 . 9   3.4
  Indicated   1 2 8 . 4   109.6 0 . 9 5   0.80 1 2 2 . 1   88.1 3 . 9   2.8
    M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   266.6 2 5 2 . 7   0.91 0 . 7 7   242.4 1 9 4 . 4   7.8 6 . 3
  Inferred   0 . 9   18.7 0 . 8 5   0.71 0 . 8   13.3 0 . 0   0.4
    T o t a l   267.5 2 7 1 . 4   0.91 0 . 7 7   243.2 2 0 7 . 7   7.8 6 . 7
    T o t a l   ( a l t e r n a t i v e   u n i t s )  
(3)
   294.9Mton 2 9 9 . 1 M t o n   0.027oz/t 0 . 0 2 2 o z / t     
Canada       3E PGE   3E PGE   Moz Moz
 River Valley
(6)
 Measured   4 . 3   4.3 1 . 7 9   1.79 7 . 6   7.6 0 . 2   0.2
  Indicated   1 1 . 0   11.0 1 . 2 0   1.20 1 3 . 3   13.3 0 . 4   0.4
    M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   15.3 1 5 . 3   1.37 1 . 3 7   20.9 2 0 . 9   0.7 0 . 7
  Inferred   1 . 2   1.2 1 . 2 4   1.24 1 . 5   1.5 0 . 0   0.0
    T o t a l   16.5 1 6 . 5   1.36 1 . 3 6   22.4 2 2 . 4   0.7 0 . 7
    T o t a l   ( a l t e r n a t i v e   u n i t s )
  (3)
    18.2Mton 1 8 . 2 M t o n   0.040oz/t 0 . 0 40 o z / t    
Brazil       3E PGE   3E PGE   Moz Moz
 Pedra Branca
(7)
 Measured   –   – –   – –   – –   –
  Indicated   –   – –   – –   – –   –
    M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   – –   – –   – –   – –
  Inferred   6 . 6   6.6 2 . 2 7   2.27 1 5 . 0   15.0 0 . 5   0.5
    T o t a l   6.6 6 . 6   2.27 2 . 2 7   15.0 1 5 . 0   0.5 0 . 5
    T o t a l   ( a l t e r n a t i v e   u n i t s )
  (3)
  7.3Mton 7 . 3 M t o n   0.066oz/t 0 . 0 6 6 o z / t     
 
Other 
information
140 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 (1)
 T o nna ge : quoted as metric tonnes.
(2)
  G r a de :     4 E   P G E is the sum of platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold grades in grammes per tonne (g/t).  
3 E   P G E is the sum of platinum, palladium and gold grades in grammes per tonne (g/t).
(3)
 A l t e r na t i v e   u ni t s :  tonnage in million short tons (Mton) and grade in troy ounces per short ton (oz/t).
(4)
  A n o o r a q - A n g l o   P l a t i n u m   B o i k a n t s h o : Anglo Platinum holds an attributable interest of 50%. A cut-off of US$20.00 gross metal value per tonne was applied.
(5)
   S h e b a ’ s   R i dge : Anglo Platinum holds an attributable interest of 35% which will be affected once a bankable Feasibility Study has been completed. A cut-off of US$10.50 per 
tonne total revenue contribution from the constituent metals was applied.
(6)
 R i v e r   V a l l e y : Anglo Platinum holds an attributable interest of 50%. A cut-off of 0.7g/t (platinum plus palladium) was applied.
(7)
 P e d r a   B r a n c a : Anglo Platinum envisages a 51% controlling share in the project. A cut-off of 0.7g/t (3E) was applied.
The following Operations and Projects contributed to the combined 2007 Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates stated per reef (excluding Other Projects): 
(MR = Merensky Reef, UG2 = UG2 Reef, PR = Platreef)
Amandelbult Section – MR/UG2 
Booysendal Project – MR/UG2 
BRPM – MR/UG2 
Der Brochen Project – MR/UG2 
Ga-Phasha PGM Project – MR/UG2 
Kroondal PSA 1 – UG2 
Lebowa Platinum Mines – MR/UG2 
Magazynskraal 3 JQ – MR/UG2 
Marikana PSA 2 – UG2 
Modikwa Platinum Mine – MR/UG2 
Mototolo – UG2 
Northam – MR/UG2 
Other Exploration Projects (Ptn. of Driekop) – UG2 
Pandora – UG2 
PPRust (Potgietersrust Platinums Ltd.) – PR 
Rustenburg Section – MR/UG2 
Twickenham Platinum Mine Project – MR/UG2 
Union Section – MR/UG2 
WBJV – MR/UG2
 
Other 
information
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 141 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates continued
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Base Metals
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources  
and Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2004) as a minimum standard. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies. The Mineral 
Resources are additional to the Ore Reserves. The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, the percentage 
attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately. 
      Tonnes  Grade Contained metal 
Copper Division Attributable     million  %Cu thousand tonnes
Ore Reserves %  Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
L o s   B r o n c e s   ( O P ) 100
 Sulphide (TCu)
(1)
   Proved   6 9 7 . 7   581.3 0 . 7 6   0.92 5 , 3 0 3   5,348
 Flotation   Probable   7 8 2 . 7   190.3 0 . 5 8   0.74 4 , 5 40   1,408
        T o t a l   1,480.4 7 7 1 . 6   0.66 0 . 8 8   9,842 6 , 7 5 6
 Sulphide (TCu)   Proved   3 4 4 . 8   583.6 0 . 3 3   0.42 1 , 1 3 8   2,393
 Dump Leach   Probable   6 7 2 . 6   553.8 0 . 2 5   0.34 1 , 6 8 2   1,883
        T o t a l   1,017.4 1 , 1 3 7 . 4   0.28 0 . 3 8   2,819 4 , 2 7 6
E l   So l d a d o   ( O P   an d   U G ) 100
 Sulphide (TCu)   Proved   6 8 . 7   76.1 1 . 0 4   1.05 7 1 5   796
 Flotation   Probable   5 0 . 7   49.9 0 . 8 2   0.83 4 1 8   415
        T o t a l   119.4 1 2 6 . 0   0.95 0 . 9 6   1,133 1 , 2 1 1
 Oxide (TCu)
(2)
   Proved   1 . 5   – 0 . 8 7   – 1 3   –
 Heap Leach   Probable   3 . 0   – 0 . 7 4   – 2 2   –
        T o t a l   4.6 –   0.78 –   36 –
M an t o s   B l an c o s   ( O P ) 100
 Sulphide (ICu)   Proved   9 . 4   8.0 0 . 9 3   1.13 8 7   90
 Flotation   Probable   1 9 . 3   24.8 1 . 0 5   0.88 2 0 3   217
        T o t a l   28.7 3 2 . 8   1.01 0 . 9 4   291 3 0 7
 Oxide (ASCu)
(3)
   Proved   1 . 5   1.1 0 . 7 2   0.85 1 1   10
 Vat and Heap Leach   Probable   4 4 . 0   28.7 0 . 4 4   0.56 1 9 5   160
        T o t a l     45.5 2 9 . 8   0.45 0 . 5 7   205 1 7 0
 Oxide (ASCu)   Proved   0 . 5   0.5 0 . 2 4   0.26 1   1
 Dump Leach   Probable   9 . 4   8.2 0 . 2 7   0.29 2 6   24
        T o t a l     10.0 8 . 7   0.27 0 . 2 9   27 2 5
M an t o v e r d e   ( O P ) 100
 Oxide (ASCu)   Proved   5 3 . 5   56.5 0 . 6 2   0.64 3 3 2   360
 Heap Leach   Probable   1 1 . 2   10.7 0 . 5 7   0.59 6 4   63
        T o t a l     64.7 6 7 . 2   0.61 0 . 6 3   395 4 2 3
 Oxide (ASCu)   Proved   2 8 . 1   32.3 0 . 3 6   0.37 1 0 1   120
 Dump Leach   Probable   1 1 . 5   11.6 0 . 40   0.39 4 6   45
        T o t a l     39.7 4 3 . 9   0.37 0 . 3 8   147 1 6 5
C o l l ah u a s i   ( O P )
(4)
 44
 Oxide, Mixed and Secondary Sulphides (TCu)
(5)
  Proved   4 3 . 9   14.3 0 . 80   0.99 3 5 2   142
 Heap Leach   Probable   3 1 . 2   16.9 0 . 8 8   0.97 2 7 5   164
        T o t a l   75.2 3 1 . 2   0.83 0 . 9 8   626 3 0 6
 Sulphide (TCu)
(6)
   Proved   2 7 9 . 0   193.5 0 . 9 9   1.09 2 , 7 6 2   2,108
 Flotation – direct feed   Probable   1 , 1 80 . 0   1,145.8 0 . 9 6   0.97 1 1 , 3 2 8   11,164
        T o t a l   1,459.1 1 , 3 3 9 . 3   0.97 0 . 9 9   14,091 1 3 , 2 7 2
 Low Grade Sulphide (TCu)
(6)
   Proved   –   – –   – –   –
 Flotation – stockpile   Probable   6 7 0 . 1   380.5 0 . 5 1   0.53 3 , 4 1 8   2,003
        T o t a l   670.1 3 80 . 5   0.51 0 . 5 3   3,418 2 , 0 0 3
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground.  
TCu = total copper, ICu = insoluble copper (total copper less acid soluble copper), ASCu = acid soluble copper.
(1)
 L o s   B r o n c e s   –   S u l p h i de ,   F l o t a t i o n : Updated cut-off grade and final pit design considered in the Los Bronces Development Project and new economic assumptions.
(2)
    E l   S o l d a do   –   O x i de ,   H e a p   L e a c h : As a result of exploration new Oxide Ore Reserves have been included in this statement. 
(3)
      M a n t o s   B l a n c o s   –   O x i de ,   V a t   a n d   H e a p   L e a c h : Gains in Ore Reserves related mainly to old workings recognised during 2007 and new economic parameters which define a 
lower cut-off grade. 
(4)
    C o l l a h u a s i :  Unlike Xstrata (Collahuasi joint venture partner), Anglo American reports Mineral Resources in excess of those that have been converted to Ore Reserves and only 
those Inferred Resources that are in the Life of Mine plan.
(5)
  C o l l a h u a s i   –   O x i de ,   M i x e d   a n d   S e c o n d a r y   S u l p h i de s : Heap Leach ore includes secondary sulphide ore from Ujina Mine. 
(6)
    C o l l a h u a s i   –   S u l p h i de ,   F l o t a t i o n : Gains in Ore Reserves related mainly to new economic parameters, which define a lower cut-off grade, and new Mineral Resources added  
in Rosario Oeste due to a brownfields exploration programme. 
The Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources of the following operations were reviewed during 2007 by independent consultants: 
Los Bronces, Mantos Blancos, El Soldado, Mantoverde.
Other 
information
142 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007      Tonnes  Grade Contained metal 
Copper Division Attributable    million  %Cu thousand tonnes
Mineral Resources % Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
L o s   B r o n c e s   ( O P ) 100
 Sulphide (TCu)
(1)
  Measured   1 1 1 . 7   118.1 0 . 4 7   0.50 5 2 9   584
 Flotation  Indicated   1 , 5 3 2 . 4   958.9 0 . 4 5   0.46 6 , 8 9 6   4,411
   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed     1,644.1   1 , 0 7 7 . 0   0.45   0 . 4 6   7,425   4 , 9 9 5
   Inferred in Mine Plan   4 3 . 1   17.9 0 . 6 7   0.67 2 8 9   120
 Sulphide (TCu)  Measured   –   – –   –   –   –
 Dump Leach  Indicated   –   – –   –   –   –
   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed     –   –   –   –     –   –
   Inferred in Mine Plan   3 1 2 . 4   66.3 0 . 1 9   0.33 5 9 4   218
E l   So l d a d o   ( O P   an d   U G ) 100
 Sulphide (TCu)  Measured   6 1 . 2   42.9 0 . 8 1   0.67 4 9 6   287
 Flotation  Indicated   4 7 . 9   48.8 0 . 7 3   0.74 3 4 9   363
   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed     109.1   9 1 . 7   0.77   0 . 7 1   845   6 5 0
   Inferred in Mine Plan   1 0 . 8   14.2 0 . 7 4   0.71 80   101
 Oxide (TCu)  Measured   0 . 1   – 0 . 8 7   – 1   –
 Heap Leach  Indicated   0 . 2   – 0 . 8 4   – 2   –
   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed     0.3   –   0.85   –   3   –
   Inferred in Mine Plan   0 . 9   – 0 . 8 8   – 8   –
M an t o s   B l an c o s   ( O P ) 100
 Sulphide (ICu)  Measured   1 7 . 7   12.6 0 . 7 5   0.83 1 3 3   105
 Flotation  Indicated   1 1 2 . 8   71.7 0 . 7 0   0.83 7 9 1   595
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   130.5 8 4 . 3   0.71 0 . 8 3   924 7 0 0
   Inferred in Mine Plan   4 . 2   2.8 0 . 8 2   1.02 3 4   29
 Oxide (ASCu)  Measured   1 . 0   1.0 0 . 5 9   0.66 6   6
 Vat and Heap Leach  Indicated   9 . 7   12.6 0 . 5 5   0.57 5 3   72
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   10.7 1 3 . 6   0.55 0 . 5 8   59 7 8
   Inferred in Mine Plan   2 . 2   1.7 0 . 5 7   0.67 1 3   11
 Oxide (ASCu)  Measured   –   – –   –   –   –
 Dump Leach  Indicated   –   – –   –   –   –
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   –   –   –   –   –   –
   Inferred in Mine Plan   1 . 1   0.8 0 . 2 4   0.27 3   2
M an t o v e r d e   ( O P ) 100
 Oxide (ASCu)  Measured   5 7 . 1   50.6 0 . 3 8   0.39 2 1 7   197
 Heap Leach  Indicated   5 9 . 6   56.8 0 . 3 6   0.37 2 1 5   210
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   116.7 1 0 7 . 4   0.37 0 . 3 8   432 40 7
   Inferred in Mine Plan   0 . 3   0.3 0 . 6 2   0.60 2   2
  Oxide (ASCu)  Measured   –   1.2 –   0.32   –   4
 Dump Leach  Indicated   4 . 3   1.7 0 . 3 3   0.31 1 4   5
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   4.3 2 . 9   0.33 0 . 3 1   14 9
   Inferred in Mine Plan   0 . 6   0.4 0 . 3 7   0.34 2   2
C o l l ah u a s i   ( O P )
(4)
 44
 Oxide, Mixed and Secondary Sulphides (TCu)
(5)
 Measured   –   0.1 –   0.97 –   1
 Heap Leach  Indicated   6 . 0   1.8 0 . 7 9   1.09 4 8   20
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   6.0 1 . 9   0.79 1 . 0 9   48 2 1
   Inferred in Mine Plan   1 . 3   0.5 1 . 1 8   0.74 1 6   4
 Sulphide (TCu)
(6)
  Measured   3 . 5   12.3 1 . 2 8   0.86 4 5   105
 Flotation – direct feed  Indicated   5 7 0 . 3   189.1 1 . 1 0   0.89 6 , 2 7 4   1,680
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   573.8 2 0 1 . 4   1.10 0 . 8 9   6,318 1 , 7 8 5
   Inferred in Mine Plan   3 7 4 . 0   202.2 0 . 9 5   0.93 3 , 5 5 3   1,878
 Low Grade Sulphide (TCu)
(6)
  Measured   2 . 9   35.0 0 . 5 0   0.45 1 4   157
 Flotation – stockpile  Indicated   1 5 4 . 6   238.3 0 . 5 0   0.46 7 7 3   1,108
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   157.5 2 7 3 . 3   0.50 0 . 4 6   787 1 , 2 6 5
   Inferred in Mine Plan   2 0 1 . 0   106.9 0 . 5 0   0.48 1 , 0 0 5   510
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground.  
TCu = total copper, ICu = insoluble copper (total copper less acid soluble copper), ASCu = acid soluble copper.
 
Other 
information
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 143 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates continued
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Base Metals continued
      Tonnes   Contained metal 
Zinc Division Attributable     million  Grade thousand tonnes 
Ore Reserves %  Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
B l a c k   M o u n t ai n   ( U G )
(1)
  100
D ee p s
(2)
 Zinc      %Zn %Zn
    Proved   1 . 3   0.2 2 . 5 0   2.34 3 2   6
    Probable   7 . 4   11.5 3 . 7 5   3.88 2 7 9   446
        T o t a l   8.7 1 1 . 7   3.56 3 . 8 4   311 4 5 2
 Copper      %Cu %Cu 
    Proved   0.21 0.25 3 1
    Probable     0 . 8 1   0.76 6 1   88
        T o t a l      0.72 0 . 7 5   63 8 9
 Lead      %Pb %Pb
    Proved     4 . 4 8   3.27 5 9   8
    Probable     4 . 0 5   3.92 3 0 1   451
        T o t a l      4.12 3 . 9 1   360 4 5 9
L i s h e e n   ( U G )
(3)
 100
 Zinc      %Zn %Zn
    Proved   6 . 9   7.5 1 1 . 2 5   11.61 7 8 2   869
    Probable   2 . 7   3.8 1 3 . 6 8   12.69 3 7 3   487
        T o t a l   9.7 1 1 . 3   11.94 1 1 . 9 7   1,155 1 , 3 5 6
 Lead      %Pb %Pb 
    Proved     1 . 9 8   2.07 1 3 8   155
    Probable     1 . 6 1   1.43 4 4   55
        T o t a l      1.88 1 . 8 5   182 2 1 0
S k o r p i o n   ( O P ) 100
 Zinc      %Zn %Zn 
    Proved   6 . 4   7.7 1 2 . 7 4   12.72 8 2 1   982
    Probable   5 . 1   5.2 9 . 7 2   9.68 4 9 1   506
        T o t a l   11.5 1 3 . 0   11.41 1 1 . 4 9   1,312 1 , 4 8 8
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground. 
For the polymetallic deposits, the tonnage figures apply to each metal. 
(1)
  B l a c k   M o u n t a i n : On 18 January 2007, Exxaro exercised its option to acquire a 26% interest in Black Mountain. The sale is contingent on the conversion of old order to new 
order mining rights. It is expected that this will take place in 2008. 
(2)
  B l a c k   M o u n t a i n   –   D e e p s :  A new 3D model has been built and the classification criteria changed along with new economic factors being applied. Ore Reserves include 8,745kt 
of silver ore at 55g/t as a by-product.
(3)
 L i s h e e n :  Decrease due to losses on the margins of the orebodies in Main East, Main West and oolite zones following mining and new underground drilling information. 
The Ore Reserves of the following operations were reviewed during 2007 by independent consultants: Lisheen.
Other 
information
144 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007      Tonnes   Contained metal 
Zinc Division Attributable    million  Grade thousand tonnes 
Mineral Resources % Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
B l a c k   M o u n t ai n   ( U G ) 100
D ee p s
(4)
 Zinc     %Zn %Zn  
   Measured   0 . 5   1.8 2 . 2 3   2.00 1 1   35
   Indicated   4 . 5   6.1 3 . 5 3   3.59 1 6 0   218
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   5.0 7 . 8   3.40 3 . 2 3   171 2 5 3
   Inferred in Mine Plan   3 . 1   – 3 . 9 6   – 1 2 4   –
  Copper     %Cu %Cu  
   Measured     0 . 6 5   0.43 3   8
   Indicated     0 . 6 1   0.74 2 8   45
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed      0.61 0 . 6 7   31 5 2
   Inferred in Mine Plan     1 . 2 3   – 3 8   –
  Lead     %Pb %Pb  
   Measured     1 . 9 7   2.22 1 0   39
   Indicated     4 . 40   3.74 2 0 0   227
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed      4.16 3 . 40   210 2 6 6
   Inferred in Mine Plan     1 . 2 8   – 40   –
S w ar t be r g
(5)
 Zinc     %Zn %Zn  
   Measured   –   – –   – –   –
   Indicated    1 7 . 3   17.3 0 . 6 3   0.63 1 0 9   109
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   17.3 1 7 . 3   0.63 0 . 6 3   109 1 0 9
   Inferred in Mine Plan   –   – –   – –   –
  Copper     %Cu %Cu  
   Measured     –   – –   –
   Indicated     0 . 7 0   0.70 1 2 1   121
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed      0.70 0 . 7 0   121 1 2 1
   Inferred in Mine Plan     –   – –   –
  Lead     %Pb %Pb  
   Measured     –   – –   –
   Indicated     2 . 8 7   2.87 4 9 7   497
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed      2.87 2 . 8 7   497 4 9 7
   Inferred in Mine Plan     –   – –   –
L i s h e e n   ( U G ) 100
 Zinc     %Zn %Zn  
   Measured   1 . 0   1.0 1 2 . 6 7   12.84 1 2 3   132
   Indicated   0 . 5   0.6 1 2 . 9 5   12.68 6 1   74
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   1.4 1 . 6   12.76 1 2 . 7 8   184 2 0 6
   Inferred in Mine Plan   0 . 4   0.5 1 8 . 2 4   17.16 6 8   81
 Lead     %Pb %Pb  
   Measured     2 . 3 0   2.38 2 2   24
   Indicated     1 . 8 6   1.55 9   9
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed      2.16 2 . 0 8   31 3 4
   Inferred in Mine Plan     3 . 0 5   2.84 1 1   13
S k o r p i o n   ( O P ) 100
 Zinc     %Zn %Zn  
   Measured   0 . 0   0.0 6 . 9 9   6.99 2   2
   Indicated   0 . 2   0.2 6 . 9 4   6.94 1 5   15
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   0.2 0 . 2   6.95 6 . 9 5   17 1 7
   Inferred in Mine Plan   0 . 8   0.8 9 . 1 6   9.18 7 1   72
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground. 
For the polymetallic deposits, the tonnage figures apply to each metal. 
(4)
  B l a c k   M o u n t a i n   –   D e e p s : Broken Hill and the Deeps Mineral Resources are combined for reporting purposes. An updated 3D model based on additional information obtained 
from underground in-fill drilling was completed during 2007. The improved understanding of the orebody led to the introduction of a scorecard classification methodology and 
Mineral Resources based on surface drilling only are classified as Inferred Resources. Mineral Resources contain 8,175kt of silver ore at 40g/t as a by-product.
(5)
   B l a c k   M o u n t a i n   –   S w a r t b e r g : The Swartberg mine was placed on care and maintenance from January 2007. The Ore Reserves were removed from the mine plan and converted 
to Mineral Resources. Mineral Resources contain 17,323kt of silver ore at 35g/t as a by-product.
The Mineral Resources of the following operations were reviewed during 2007 by independent consultants: Lisheen.
 
Other 
information
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 145 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates continued
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Base Metals continued
     Tonnes   Contained metal 
Nickel Division Attributable    million  Grade thousand tonnes
Ore Reserves % Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
B ar r o   A l t o   ( O P )
(1)
 100
 Laterite      %Ni %Ni
    Proved   1 2 . 3   13.2 1 . 6 1   1.64 1 9 9   216
    Probable   2 7 . 1   27.2 1 . 8 1   1.81 4 9 1   492
        T o t a l   39.5 40 . 4   1.75 1 . 7 5   690 7 0 8
C od e m i n   ( O P )
 
100
 Laterite     %Ni %Ni
    Proved   3 . 2   3.2 1 . 3 3   1.33 4 2   42
    Probable   0 . 5   0.5 1 . 3 3   1.33 7   7
        T o t a l   3.7 3 . 7   1.33 1 . 3 3   49 4 9
L om a   d e   N í q u e l   ( O P ) 91.4    
 Laterite     %Ni %Ni
    Proved   1 1 . 9   11.9 1 . 4 9   1.51 1 7 8   180
    Probable   2 2 . 1   22.6 1 . 4 7   1.46 3 2 4   329
        T o t a l   34.0 3 4 . 5   1.48 1 . 4 8   502 5 0 9
     Tonnes   Contained metal 
Nickel Division Attributable   million  Grade thousand tonnes
Mineral Resources % Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
B ar r o   A l t o   ( O P ) 100
 Laterite     %Ni %Ni
    Measured   –   – –   – –   –
    Indicated   1 6 . 9   16.9 1 . 3 6   1.36 2 3 0   230
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   16.9 1 6 . 9   1.36 1 . 3 6   230 2 3 0
   Inferred in Mine Plan 3 7 . 5 37.5 1 . 5 6 1.56 5 8 5 585
C od e m i n   ( O P ) 100
 Laterite     %Ni %Ni
    Measured   3 . 3   3.3 1 . 2 9   1.29 4 3   43
    Indicated   3 . 5   3.5 1 . 2 5   1.25 4 4   44
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   6.9 6 . 9   1.27 1 . 2 7   87 8 7
   Inferred in Mine Plan   –   – –   – –   –
L om a   d e   N í q u e l   ( O P )
(2)
 91.4
 Laterite     %Ni %Ni
    Measured   1 . 2   1.0 1 . 40   1.41 1 6   15
    Indicated   4 . 8   4.6 1 . 4 5   1.44 7 0   67
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   6.0 5 . 7   1.44 1 . 4 4   86 8 1
   Inferred in Mine Plan   1 . 7   1.6 1 . 3 9   1.38 2 3   22
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit.
(1)
  B a r r o   A l t o : The mineral resource model was updated and the mining design optimised to incorporate the new resources into the Ore Reserves. Ore from Barro Alto is currently 
being processed at the Codemin plant.
(2)
   L o m a   de   N í qu e l : Increases are due to changes to the geological model incorporating new drilling information. Refer to note 38 of the Financial statements for further 
information regarding the nickel exploration and exploitation concessions held.
The Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources of the following operations were reviewed during 2007 by independent consultants: Loma de Níquel.
Other 
information
146 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007  
      Tonnes   Contained metal 
Niobium Attributable     million  Grade thousand tonnes
Ore Reserves %  Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
C a t a l ã o   ( O P )
(1)
 100
 Carbonatite      %Nb
2
O
5
 %Nb
2
O
5
 
    Proved   1 1 . 9   7.0 1 . 2 4   1.15 1 4 7   80
    Probable   4 . 2   6.8 1 . 1 5   1.44 4 8   98
        T o t a l   16.0 1 3 . 8   1.21 1 . 2 9   195 1 7 8
 
 
      Tonnes    Contained metal 
Niobium Attributable     million  Grade  thousand tonnes
Mineral Resources %  Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
C a t a l ã o   ( O P ) 100
 Carbonatite      %Nb
2
O
5
 %Nb
2
O
5
    Measured   0 . 2   – 1 . 0 5   – 2   –
    Indicated   0 . 3   – 0 . 9 1   – 3   –
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   0.5   –   0.96 –   4 –
   Inferred in Mine Plan   0 . 6   – 0 . 9 0   – 5   –
 
      Tonnes     
Phosphate products Attributable     million  Grade
Ore Reserves %  Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006
C o p e b r á s   ( O P )
(2)
 73      
       %P
2
O
5
 %P
2
O
5
    Proved    7 9 . 6   84.3 1 3 . 3   13.3
    Probable   1 5 2 . 1   152.3 1 3 . 4   13.4
        T o t a l   231.7 2 3 6 . 6   13.3 1 3 . 3
      Tonnes   
Phosphate products Attributable     million  Grade
Mineral Resources %  Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006
C o p e b r á s   ( O P ) 73
       %P
2
O
5
 %P
2
O
5
    Measured   0 . 5   0.5 1 2 . 4   12.4
    Indicated   2 0 . 3   20.3 1 1 . 4   11.4
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   20.8   2 0 . 9   11.4 1 1 . 4
   Inferred in Mine Plan   1 5 . 8   15.8 1 2 . 9   12.9  
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit.
(1)
  C a t a l ã o : Increases due to new information from an exploration programme completed during 2007 and improved outlook for ferro-niobium prices which resulted in a lowering 
of the cut-off grade.
(2)  
C o p e b r á s: Change due to production during 2007.
 
Other 
information
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 147 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates continued
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Base Metals continued
      Tonnes   Contained metal 
Heavy Minerals Attributable    million  Grade million tonnes 
Ore Reserves %  Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
N a m ak w a   S an d s   ( O P )
(1)
 100
 Ilmenite      %Ilm %Ilm
    Proved   7 6 . 5   79.9 4 . 9   5.0 3 . 7   4.0
    Probable   2 5 0 . 4   268.9 3 . 7   3.7 9 . 2   9.9
        T o t a l   326.8 3 4 8 . 8   4.0 4 . 0   12.9 1 3 . 9
 Zircon     %Zir %Zir 
    Proved     1 . 2   1.2 0 . 9   1.0
    Probable     0 . 9   0.9 2 . 4   2.5
        T o t a l      1.0 1 . 0   3.3 3 . 5
 Rutile     %Rut %Rut 
    Proved     0 . 2   0.2 0 . 2   0.2
    Probable     0 . 2   0.2 0 . 5   0.5
        T o t a l      0.2 0 . 2   0.7 0 . 7
     Tonnes   Contained metal 
Heavy Minerals Attributable   million  Grade million tonnes 
Mineral Resources % Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
N a m ak w a   S an d s   ( O P )
(1)
 100
 Ilmenite     %Ilm %Ilm 
   Measured   1 1 7 . 9   116.5 3 . 5   3.5 4 . 1   4.1
   Indicated   1 4 8 . 4   143.6 3 . 4   3.4 5 . 0   4.9
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   266.3 2 6 0 . 1   3.4 3 . 5   9.1 9 . 0
   Inferred in mine plan   1 8 4 . 1   175.7 3 . 1   2.7 5 . 6   4.7
 Zircon     %Zir %Zir 
   Measured     0 . 7   0.7 0 . 8   0.8
   Indicated     0 . 7   0.7 1 . 0   1.0
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed      0.7 0 . 7   1.8 1 . 8
   Inferred in mine plan     0 . 7   0.6 1 . 3   1.1
 Rutile     %Rut %Rut 
   Measured     0 . 2   0.2 0 . 2   0.2
   Indicated     0 . 2   0.2 0 . 2   0.2
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed      0.2 0 . 2   0.4 0 . 4
   Inferred in mine plan     0 . 2   0.1 0 . 3   0.2
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit. 
For the multi-product deposits, the tonnage figures apply to each product.
(1) 
  N am a k w a   S a n d s :  On 18 January 2007, Exxaro exercised its option to acquire a 100% interest of Namakwa Sands. The sale is contingent on the conversion of old order 
to new order mining rights. It is expected that this will take place in 2008. Change due to production and resource model update during 2007.
Other 
information
148 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007       Tonnes   Contained metal 
Projects Attributable     million  Grade thousand tonnes 
Ore Reserves %  Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Q u e l l a v ec o   ( O P )
(1)
 80
 Copper      %Cu %Cu 
 Sulphide   Proved   2 5 0 . 1   250.1 0 . 7 6   0.76 1 , 9 0 1   1,901
 Flotation   Probable   6 8 8 . 3   688.3 0 . 5 9   0.59 4 , 0 6 1   4,061
        T o t a l   938.4 9 3 8 . 4   0.64 0 . 6 4   5,962 5 , 9 6 2
G a ms b e r g   ( O P )
(2)
 100
 Zinc      %Zn %Zn 
    Proved   3 4 . 3   34.4 7 . 5 5   7.55 2 , 5 8 5   2,597
    Probable   1 1 0 . 3   110.3 5 . 5 5   5.55 6 , 1 2 4   6,124
        T o t a l   144.5 1 4 4 . 7   6.03 6 . 0 3   8,709 8 , 7 2 1
      Tonnes   Contained metal 
Projects Attributable     million  Grade thousand tonnes 
Mineral Resources %  Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Q u e l l a v ec o   ( O P ) 80
 Copper       %Cu %Cu
 Sulphide   Measured   1 . 5   1.5 0 . 5 3   0.53 8   8
 Flotation   Indicated   1 7 6 . 7   176.7 0 . 4 6   0.46 8 1 3   813
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   178.2 1 7 8 . 2   0.46 0 . 4 6   821 8 2 1
   Inferred in Mine Plan   4 1 . 1   – 0 . 5 4   – 2 2 2   –
P e bb l e   E a s t   ( U G )
(3)(4)
 50
 Copper       %Cu %Cu
    Measured – – – – – –
    Indicated – – – – – –
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   –   –   –   –   –   –
   Inferred
(5)
   2 , 4 2 0 . 0   – 0 . 7 1   – 1 7 , 1 8 2   –
P e bb l e   W e s t   ( O P )
(3)(6)
 50
 Copper       %Cu %Cu
    Measured
(7)
   6 5 5 . 0   – 0 . 3 4   – 2 , 2 2 7   –
    Indicated
(8)
   1 , 7 6 0 . 0   – 0 . 3 0   – 5 , 2 80   –
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   2,415.0 –   0.31 –   7,507 –
   Inferred
(9)
   7 6 0 . 0   – 0 . 2 7   – 2 , 0 5 2   –
 
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground.
(1)
 Q u e l l a v e c o : Based on a feasibility study completed in 2000.
(2)
   G am s b e r g : Based on a feasibility study completed in 2000 and reviewed in 2006 to account for prevailing economic and financial assumptions. The Mine Plan includes an 
additional 54,200kt at 4.10% Zn of Inferred Mineral Resources.
(3)
   P e b b l e : Copper Equivalent (CuEq) calculations use metal prices of $1.00/lb for copper, $400/oz for gold and $6.00/lb for molybdenum. The CuEq used for the tabulated 
resources does not include estimates of metallurgical recoveries. Should provisional metallurgical recoveries be included in the CuEq calculation, an indication of the impact on 
the resource estimates is shown in the footnotes. It must be emphasised that metallurgical test work is ongoing at both Pebble East and Pebble West and that reliable 
estimates of recoveries will only be established during the current pre-feasibility study which is due for completion at end 2008. By definition mineral resources do not have 
demonstrated economic viability. Due to the uncertainty in the estimates of Inferred Resources, it should not be assumed that all of the Inferred Resources will necessarily 
upgrade to Indicated or Measured Resources.
(4)
   P e b b l e   E a s t : The resources are based on drilling to November 2007 and a block model created in December 2007. A cut-off grade of 0.8% CuEq was used and is considered 
reasonable for a large-scale underground operation. The resources occur in a reasonably coherent volume but a more detailed underground design was not undertaken to 
constrain the resources or to test for reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction. At a cut-off of 1% CuEq the estimates of resources are 1,500Mt at 0.82% Cu, 
0.49g/t Au and 0.035% Mo (1.32% CuEq). If the estimates of recovery are used in the CuEq calculation, the estimate of Inferred Resources above a cut-off of 0.8% CuEq 
drops to 2,100Mt at 0.75% Cu, 0.43g/t Au and 0.035% Mo.
(5)
   P e b b l e   E a s t   c o - p r o d u c t   e s t i m a t e d   gr a de s   ( I n f e r r e d ) : Gold 0.42g/t, Molybdenum 0.034%.
(6)
  P e b b l e   W e s t : The resource block model used as the basis for reporting is unchanged from that used by Northern Dynasty Mines to previously publish resources. The resources 
in the table are based on a cut-off grade of 0.4% CuEq. Reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction for the Pebble West Measured and Indicated Resources 
is satisfied in that more than 96% of the resources fall within a pit generated using Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources. At a cut-off of 0.5% CuEq the estimates 
of Measured plus Indicated Resources are 1,630Mt at 0.35% Cu, 0.39g/t Au and 0.018% Mo (0.69% CuEq). If the estimates of recovery are used in the CuEq calculation, 
the estimates of Measured plus Indicated Resources above a cut-off of 0.4% CuEq drops to 1,920Mt at 0.34% Cu, 0.37g/t Au and 0.017% Mo.
(7)
   P e b b l e   W e s t   c o - p r o d u c t   e s t i m a t e d   gr a de s   ( M e a s u r e d ) : Gold 0.37g/t, Molybdenum 0.017%.
(8)
   P e b b l e   W e s t   c o - p r o d u c t   e s t i m a t e d   gr a de s   ( I n di c a t e d ) : Gold 0.34g/t, Molybdenum 0.016%.
(9)
   P e b b l e   W e s t   c o - p r o d u c t   e s t i m a t e d   gr a de s   ( I n f e r r e d ) : Gold 0.34g/t, Molybdenum 0.017%. 
 
Other 
information
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 149 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates continued
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Ferrous Metals
 
Kumba Iron Ore
 
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with The SAMREC Code, 2007. Rounding of figures may cause 
computational discrepancies. The Mineral Resources are reported as inclusive of those Mineral Resources modified to produce the Ore Reserve 
figures, i.e. the Ore Reserves are included in the Mineral Resource figures. The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately.
 
    Tonnes    Saleable product 
Iron Ore Attributable    million  Grade  million tonnes
Ore Reserves % Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
S i s h e n   I r o n   O r e   M i n e   ( O P )
(1)
 36.9    %Fe %Fe  
   Proved 80 5     813 5 9 . 5   58.1 5 9 8 @ 6 5 . 2 %   F e   567@65.8% Fe
   Probable 2 2 7     241 6 0 . 0   57.2 1 7 4 @ 6 5 . 3 %   F e   226@63.9% Fe
      T o t a l   1,033  1 , 0 5 4   59.6 5 7 . 9   772@65.2% Fe 7 9 3 @ 6 5 . 3 %   F e
T h a b a z im b i   I r o n   O r e   M i n e   ( O P )
(2)
 46.9    %Fe %Fe  
   Proved 8     7 6 2 . 9   61.6 7 @ 6 3 . 5 %   F e   6@64.5% Fe
   Probable 1     2 6 2 . 7   60.9 1 @ 6 3 . 1 %   F e     2@63.9% Fe
      T o t a l   9     1 0   62.9   6 1 . 4   8@63.4% Fe   8 @ 6 4 . 3 %   F e
S i s h e n   So ut h   I r o n   O r e   P r o j ec t   ( O P )
(3)
 46.9    %Fe %Fe  
   Proved 9 8 134 6 4 . 7 65.4 98@64.7% Fe –
   Probable 7 8 31 6 3 . 6 64.2 78@63.6% Fe –
      T o t a l   176   1 6 6   64.2   6 5 . 2   176@64.2% Fe   –
 
 
    Tonnes  
Iron Ore Attributable   million  Grade
Mineral Resources % Classification  2007 2006 2007 2006
S i s h e n   I r o n   O r e   M i n e   ( O P )  36.9    %Fe %Fe
 Within Pit
(1)
   Measured   9 2 0   1,398 6 0 . 5   57.0
    Indicated   1 8 7   422 5 9 . 0   56.2
        M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   1,107 1 , 8 1 9   60.2 5 6 . 8
    Inferred in Mine Plan   5   – 6 2 . 4   –
 Outside Pit
(4)
   Measured   6 1 8   115 5 5 . 2   64.6
    Indicated   5 8 8   266 5 8 . 6   64.3
        M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   1,206 3 8 1   56.9 6 4 . 4
        Inferred  1 1 0 – 6 1 . 0 –
T h a b a z im b i   I r o n   O r e   M i n e   ( O P ) 46.9    %Fe %Fe
 Within Pit
(2)
   Measured   1 1   8 6 1 . 8   62.1
    Indicated   2   3 6 2 . 4   61.4
        M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   13 1 1   61.9 6 1 . 9
        Inferred in Mine Plan  0 – 6 1 . 6 –
 Outside Pit
(5)
   Measured   1 8   12 6 2 . 4   62.2
    Indicated   5   14 6 3 . 4   61.8
        M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   23 2 7   62.6 6 2 . 0
        Inferred  3 – 6 3 . 4 –
S i s h e n   So ut h   I r o n   O r e   P r o j ec t   ( O P ) 46.9     %Fe %Fe
 Within Pit
(6)
   Measured   1 1 5   122 6 6 . 1   65.7
    Indicated   7 0   61 6 5 . 6   65.2
        M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   185 1 8 3   65.9 6 5 . 5
        Inferred in Mine Plan  – – – –
 Outside Pit
(7)
   Measured   3 1   35 6 5 . 6   64.6
    Indicated   5 6   88 6 4 . 3   64.5
        M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   87 1 2 3   64.8 6 4 . 5
        Inferred  1 0 – 6 3 . 4 –
Z an d r i v i e r s p oo r t   P r o j ec t   ( O P ) 23.5     %Fe %Fe
    Measured   –   – –   –
    Indicated   4 4 7   447 3 4 . 9   34.9
        M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   447 4 4 7   34.9 3 4 . 9
        Inferred  – – – –
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit.
The tonnage is quoted as metric tonnes and abbreviated as Mt for million tonnes.
Other 
information
150 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007  
(1)
   S i s h e n   I r o n   Or e   M i n e : New economic assumptions and revised Optimistic Pit shell applied.
(2)
   T h a b a z i m b i   I r o n   Or e   M i n e : New economic assumptions and revised Optimistic Pit shell applied. 
(3)
  S i s h e n   S o u t h   I r o n   Or e   P r o j e c t   –   Or e   R e s e r v e s : The process of converting Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves is time-consuming and as the geological model update was only 
completed late in 2007, the Ore Reserves reported are based on previous geological models. Globally the Mineral Resource estimates between the two models are similar with 
local variations which could impact the Ore Reserve estimates when updated in 2008.
(4)
   S i s h e n   I r o n   Or e   M i n e   –   O u t s i de   P i t : Previously reported as ‘Underground’. Updated economic assumptions and a change in the long term outlook on exploitation of these 
resources resulted in the underground option no longer being considered.
(5)
   T h a b a z i m b i   I r o n   Or e   M i n e   –   O u t s i de   P i t : Previously reported as ‘Underground’. Updated economic assumptions and a change in the long term outlook on exploitation of these 
resources resulted in the underground option no longer being considered.
(6)
   S i s h e n   S o u t h   –   W i t h i n   P i t : Based on new geological models and a Mineral Resource update late in 2007.
(7)
   S i s h e n   S o u t h   –   O u t s i de   P i t : Previously reported as ‘Underground’. Updated economic assumptions and a change in the long term outlook on exploitation of these resources 
resulted in the underground option no longer being considered.
 
Other 
information
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 151 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates continued
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Ferrous Metals continued 
 
Minas-Rio Project 
The Minas-Rio Project is located in the Minas Gerais state of Brazil and will include open pit mines and a beneficiation plant producing high grade 
pellet feed which will be transported, through a slurry pipeline, over 500 km to the Port of Açu in the Rio de Janeiro state. The project will largely 
be based on the two main deposits of Serra do Sapo and Itapanhoacanga while smaller deposits occur at Serro and João Monlevade. Two ore 
types, Friable and Hard Itabirite, have been identified at Serra do Sapo and Itapanhoacanga. Only the Friable Itabirite at Serra do Sapo is being 
considered for Phase 1 of the project. The planned annual capacity of Phase 1 is 26.5 Mtpa of iron ore pellet feed (wet tonnes), for start-up 
during 2010.
The estimates of Mineral Resources have been audited by an independent Qualified Person from SRK who has compiled a NI 43-101 compliant 
Technical Report for MMX. The Mineral Resources are also JORC compliant. The Qualified Person has consented to the inclusion of the resources 
in the table below, and associated footnotes, and agrees with the context and form in which they occur. Rounding of figures may cause 
computational discrepancies. The figures reported represent 100% of the Mineral Resources. 
Minas-Rio Project
( 1 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ( 6 ) ( 7 )
     Tonnes  
Iron Ore Attributable    million  Grade
Mineral Resources %  Classification  2007 2006 2007 2006
Se r r a   d o   S ap o   ( O P )
(3)
 49       %Fe   %Fe
 Friable Itabirite   Measured –     – –   – 
    Indicated   2 2 2   – 4 1 . 0   –
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   222 –   41.0 –
      Inferred
(2)
  3 1 3 – 3 9 . 5 –
 Hard Itabirite   Measured –     – –   –
    Indicated   1 7 1   – 3 4 . 8   –
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   171 –   34.8 –
      Inferred
(2)
  1 4 1 – 3 4 . 2 –
I t ap an h o a c an g a   ( O P ) 49       %Fe   %Fe
 Friable Itabirite   Measured   –   – –   –
    Indicated   8 3   – 40 . 3   –
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   83 –   40.3 –
      Inferred
(2)
  2 8 4 – 40 . 4 –
 Hard Itabirite   Measured   –   – –   –
    Indicated – – – –
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   – –   – –
      Inferred
(2)
  3 2 – 3 4 . 2 –
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit.  
 
(1)
  M i na s - R i o   P r o j e c t : All Mineral Resources are stated as wet tonnes and the moisture content is estimated at 7%. Cut-off grade used is 33% Fe . 
(2)
  M i na s - R i o   P r o j e c t   –   I n f e r r e d   R e s o u r c e s : Due to the uncertainty in the estimates of Inferred Resources, it should not be assumed that all of the Inferred Resources will 
necessarily upgrade to Indicated or Measured Resources.
(3)
  S e r r a   do   S a p o : Drilling has taken place over less than 50% of the strike length of the deposit and further exploration is expected to yield between 800Mt and 1000Mt 
of additional Friable Itabirite resources. It must be emphasised that this potential quantity is conceptual in nature, that there is insufficient exploration to define a Mineral 
Resource and that it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the determination of a Mineral Resource.
(4)
  S e r r a   do   S a p o   –  Further lower grade resources above a cut-off of 20% Fe: 
Friable Itabirite – an estimated 125Mt of Indicated and 102Mt of Inferred Mineral Resources at an estimated average grade of 30% Fe and; 
Hard Itabirite – an estimated 752Mt of Indicated and 892Mt of Inferred Hard Itabirite at an estimated average grade of 30% Fe;
(5)
  It a p a nh o a c a n g a   – Further lower grade resources above a cut-off of 20% Fe: 
Friable Itabirite – an estimated 7Mt of Indicated Mineral Resources at an estimated average grade of 32% Fe and; 
Friable Itabirite – an estimated 78Mt Inferred Mineral Resources at an estimated average grade of 29% Fe and; 
Hard Itabirite – an estimated 19Mt of Inferred Mineral Resources at an estimated average grade of 31% Fe.
(6)
  S e r r o   de p o s i t   –  Resources above a cut-off of 33% Fe: 
Friable plus Hard Itabirite – an estimated 25Mt of Indicated and 56Mt of Inferred Mineral Resources at an estimated average grade of approximately 38% Fe. 
Further lower grade resources above a cut-off of 20% Fe: 
Friable plus Hard Itabirite – an estimated 101Mt of Indicated and 256Mt of Inferred Mineral Resources at an estimated average grade of 29% Fe.
(7)
    J o ã o   M o n l e v a de   de p o s i t – Resources above a cut-off of 30% Fe: 
Friable Itabirite – an estimated 133Mt of Inferred Mineral Resources at an estimated average grade of 47% Fe.
Other 
information
152 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007  
 
Samancor 
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with The SAMREC Code, 2007 and The JORC Code, 2004 
as applicable. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies. The Mineral Resources are reported as inclusive of those Mineral 
Resources modified to produce the Ore Reserve figures, i.e. the Ore Reserves are included in the Mineral Resource figures. The figures reported 
represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources.
 
      Tonnes 
Manganese   Attributable    million  Grade  % Yield
Ore Reserves %  Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
H o t a z e l   M an g an e s e   M i n e s 40    %Mn %Mn
 Mamatwan (OP)
(1)
   Proved   4 4 . 0     42.3 3 7 . 6   37.6
    Probable   8 . 1     6.7 3 6 . 4   37.2
        T o t a l   52.1  4 9 . 0   37.4 3 7 . 5
 Wessels (UG)
(2)
   Proved   4 . 6     2.4 4 6 . 0   48.0
    Probable   1 4 . 8     11.6 4 5 . 2   48.0
        T o t a l   19.4  1 4 . 0   45.4 4 8 . 0
G E M C O   ( O P )
(3)
 40     %Mn %Mn
    Proved   8 1 . 8     55.5 4 8 . 2   48.5 4 9 . 3   53.4
    Probable   4 4 . 7     36.0 4 7 . 2   47.2 4 7 . 0   51.0
        T o t a l   126.5  9 1 . 5   47.8 4 8 . 0   48.5 5 2 . 5
      Tonnes 
Manganese  Attributable     million  Grade  % Yield
Mineral Resources % Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
H o t a z e l   M an g an e s e   M i n e s 40    %Mn %Mn
 Mamatwan (OP)
(4)
  Measured   5 6 . 2     53.1 3 7 . 6     37.6
   Indicated   1 5 . 6     10.6 3 6 . 4     37.2
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   71.8  6 3 . 7   37.3  3 7 . 5
 Wessels (UG)
(5)
  Measured   8 . 8     4.8 4 6 . 0     48.1
   Indicated   3 0 . 7     19.6 4 5 . 3     48.0
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   39.5  2 4 . 4   45.5 4 8 . 0
G E M C O   ( O P )
(6)
 40    %Mn %Mn
   Measured   80 . 1     61.2 4 6 . 5   48.9 4 4 . 2   42.0
   Indicated   4 7 . 7     42.7 4 6 . 0   47.3 4 4 . 0   38.0
      M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   127.8  1 0 3 . 9   46.3 4 8 . 2   44.1 40 . 4
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground.
Mamatwan tonnages stated as Wet Metric Tonnes. Wessels and GEMCO tonnages stated as Dry Metric Tonnes.
(1)
 M am a t w a n   –   Or e   R e s e r v e s : The final slope angle of the boundary pillar and safety factors have been reviewed and the X zone included. 
(2)
  W e s s e l s   –   Or e   R e s e r v e s : Positive changes in market conditions has allowed for the downward adjustment of the cut-off grade to 37.5% Mn as opposed to 43.6% Mn used 
in 2006. The mean grade of the high grade product (W1L) was also adjusted to 47% Mn from a traditional mean grade of 48% Mn.
(3) 
  G E M C O   –   Or e   R e s e r v e s : Changes are primarily due to enhanced market conditions and the inclusion of J Deposit. The Ore Reserves reported are stated with total tonnage but 
report the grade values only above the nominated cut-off of 40% Mn product grade. The grade is reported using beneficiated grades, as beneficiated grades are used in mine 
scheduling, quality control and blending (rather than in situ grades). 
(4)
  M am a t w a n   –   M i n e r a l   R e s o u r c e s : Additional boreholes resulted in an enhanced geological model and along with changes to the classification criteria, have enabled upgrading 
of additional resources to Measured and Indicated Resources.
(5)
  W e s s e l s   –   M i n e r a l   R e s o u r c e s : Changes are due to a revised structural interpretation and geological model along with the inclusion of all material above a revised cut-off 
of 37.5% Mn. The downward adjustment of the cut-off from the previous 43.5% Mn is due to positive changes in market conditions. The mean grade of the high grade product 
(W1L) was also adjusted to 47% Mn from a traditional mean grade of 48% Mn.
(6)
  G E M C O   –   M i n e r a l   R e s o u r c e s : Additional drillholes and in-fill drilling has resulted in re-classification of ground increasing the Measured Resources significantly. 
 
Other 
information
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 153 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates continued
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Coal
The Coal Reserve and Coal Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and  
Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2004) as a minimum standard. Where relevant, the estimates were also prepared in compliance with regional  
codes and requirements (e.g. The SAMREC Code, 2007). Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies. The Coal Resources are 
additional to those resources which have been modified to produce the Coal Reserves. Reported and attributable percentages vary and are 
therefore stated individually.
        
       Saleable  Saleable
      Tonnes Yield
(4)
 Heat content
(5)
  Tonnes
Anglo Coal Reported
(2)
 Attributable
(2)
    million
(3)
  % kcal/kg   million
(3)
Coal Reserves
( 1 )
 % % Classification 2007 2006 2007   2007   2007 2006
E x p o r t   M e t a l l u r g i c a l      R O M
(1)
  ROM
(1)
   GAR
(5)
 S A L E A B L E
(1)
 SALEABLE
(1)
 Australia   Proved   3 8 2   387 7 7   7 , 3 3 0 3 0 5   311
    Probable   2 2 0   224 7 0   7 , 1 1 0 1 5 9   163
    1 0 0   6 8 . 5   T o t a l   602 6 1 1   74 7,260   464 4 7 4
 Canada   Proved   1 1   – 6 7   7 , 5 0 0 8   –
    Probable   4   – 6 6   7 , 5 0 0 3   –
    1 0 0   6 5 . 9   T o t a l   16 –   67 7,500   11 –
 South Africa   Proved   4   5 7 2   6 , 4 7 0 3   3
    Probable   –   2 –   – –   1
    1 0 0   1 0 0   T o t a l   4 7   72 6 , 4 7 0   3 4
E x p o r t   T h e r m a l
 Australia   Proved   1 2 9   129 8 7   6 , 6 2 0 1 1 4   115
    Probable   3 6   29 9 0   6 , 6 2 0 3 3   26
    9 2 . 4   5 8 . 5   T o t a l   165 1 5 8   88 6,620   147 1 4 1
 Colombia   Proved   2 1 6   208 1 0 0   6 , 1 3 0 2 2 0   211
    Probable   7 0   65 1 0 0   6 , 2 2 0 7 2   66
    3 3 . 3   3 3 . 3   T o t a l   287 2 7 2   100 6,160   292 2 7 7
 South Africa   Proved   1 9 1   187 6 1   6 , 0 3 0 1 1 9   114
    Probable   2 5 1   283 5 8   6 , 1 3 0 1 4 8   172
    9 7 . 5   9 7 . 5   T o t a l   442 4 7 0   59 6,080   268 2 8 7
 Venezuela   Proved   3 5   37 1 0 0   7 , 1 0 0 3 6   38
    Probable – – – – – –
    2 4 . 9   2 4 . 9   T o t a l   35 3 7   100 7,100   36 3 8
T o t a l   E x p o r t   Proved   9 6 8   951 8 1   6 , 7 0 0 80 6   793
    Probable   5 8 2   603 7 0   6 , 5 7 0 4 1 5   428
        T o t a l   1,550 1 , 5 5 5   77 6,650   1,221 1 , 2 2 1
D om e s t i c   P o w e r   G e n e r a ti o n
 Australia   Proved   2 0 5   211 9 9   4 , 6 1 0 2 0 2   206
    Probable 2 7 32 9 8 4 , 4 80 26 32
    1 0 0   1 0 0   T o t a l   232 2 4 3   99 4,590   229 2 3 8
 South Africa   Proved   6 3 5   551 9 4   4 , 0 5 0 6 0 5   537
    Probable   1 6 3   194 9 8   5 , 3 40 1 6 3   194
    1 0 0   9 4 . 7   T o t a l   798 7 4 5   95 4,330   769 7 3 0
D om e s t i c   S y n f u e l s 
  South Africa   Proved   9 2   99 1 0 0   5 , 2 9 0 9 1   99
    Probable – – – – – –
    1 0 0   1 0 0   T o t a l   92 9 9   100 5,290   91 9 9
T o t a l   D om e s t i c   Proved   9 3 1   861 9 6   4 , 3 0 0 8 9 9   842
    Probable   1 9 0   226 9 8   5 , 2 2 0 1 9 0   225
        T o t a l   1,121 1 , 0 8 7   96 4,460   1,089 1 , 0 6 7
T o t a l   C o a l   R e s e r v e s   Proved   1 , 8 9 9   1,813 8 8   5 , 4 40 1 , 7 0 4   1,635
    Probable   7 7 2   829 7 7   6 , 1 5 0 6 0 5   654
        T o t a l   2,671 2 , 6 4 2   85 5,620   2,309 2 , 2 8 8
 
Footnotes appear at the end of the section.
E x p o r t   M e t a l l u r g i c a l refers to operations where the main product is coking coal and/or coal for pulverised coal injection (PCI), primarily for the export market.
E x p o r t   T h e r m a l refers to operations that primarily produce thermal coal for the export market.
D o m e s t i c   P o w e r   G e n e r a t i o n refers to operations that produce thermal coal for, and are typically tied to, power stations.
D o m e s t i c   S y n f u e l s refers to operations in South Africa that produce coal for supply to Sasol for the production of synthetic fuel and chemicals.
Other 
information
154 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 Anglo Coal
      Tonnes
(3)
    Heat content
(5)
Coal Resources
( 6 )
  Reported
(2)
 Attributable
(2)
    million  kcal/kg 
Mine Leases  % % Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006
E x p o r t   M e t a l l u r g i c a l       M T I S
(6)
  MTIS
(6)
 G A R
(5)
  GAR 
(5)
 Australia    Measured   1 6 2   150 6 , 9 5 0   6,990
     Indicated   1 5 5   172 6 , 8 9 0   6,890
      1 0 0   7 3 . 8   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   318 3 2 3   6,920 6 , 9 40
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   1 4   14 7 , 1 2 0   7,120
 Canada    Measured   –   – –   –
     Indicated   –   – –   –
      1 0 0   6 5 . 9   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   – –   – –
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   3   – 7 , 5 0 0   –
 South Africa    Measured   1   9 6 , 2 40   6,930
     Indicated   –   16 –   7,080
      1 0 0   1 0 0   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   1 2 5   6,240 7 , 0 3 0
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   –   – –   –
E x p o r t   T h e r m a l 
 Australia    Measured   1 8   1 7 , 0 0 0   6,520
     Indicated   2 3   15 6 , 9 6 0   6,520
      6 0   5 2 . 1   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   41 1 7   6,970 6 , 5 2 0
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   6   3 5 , 2 40   6,540
 Colombia    Measured   6 8   68 6 , 5 2 0   6,520
     Indicated   3 3 0   330 6 , 2 1 0   6,210
      3 3 . 3   3 3 . 3   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   398 3 9 8   6,270 6 , 2 7 0
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   1   1 7 , 2 2 0   7,220
 South Africa    Measured   2 3 6   170 5 , 5 9 0   5,970
     Indicated   2 7 2   170 5 , 4 80   5,890
      9 7 . 5   8 8 . 7   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   508 3 40   5,530 5 , 9 3 0
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   2 7   60 6 , 5 6 0   6,530
 Venezuela    Measured   7   – 7 , 9 1 0   –
     Indicated   2 0   28 7 , 8 6 0   7,880
      2 4 . 9   2 4 . 9   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   26 2 8   7,870 7 , 8 80
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   –   – –   –
T o t a l   E x p o r t      Measured   4 9 2   398 6 , 2 5 0   6,470
     Indicated   80 1   731 6 , 1 6 0   6,390
          M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   1,293 1 , 1 2 9   6,190 6 , 4 2 0
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   5 0   78 6 , 6 1 0   6,650
D om e s t i c   P o w e r   G e n e r a ti o n
 Australia    Measured   2 5 4   251 4 , 9 5 0   5,000
     Indicated   3 4 6   353 4 , 7 9 0   4,800
      1 0 0   1 0 0   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   600 6 0 4   4,860 4 , 8 80
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   1   1 3 , 8 9 0   3,770
 South Africa    Measured   5 7   109 5 , 4 9 0   4,170
     Indicated   4 8   91 4 , 5 80   4,900
      1 0 0   8 5 . 8   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   105 2 0 0   5,070 4 , 5 0 0
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   7 9   66 5 , 8 5 0   4,640
D om e s t i c   S y n f u e l s                
 South Africa    Measured   –   – –   –
     Indicated   2 6   26 5 , 3 3 0   5,330
      1 0 0   1 0 0   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   26 2 6   5,330 5 , 3 3 0
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   –   – –   –
T o t a l   D om e s t i c                  
     Measured   3 1 1   360 5 , 0 5 0   4,750
     Indicated   4 2 0   470 4 , 80 0   4,850
          M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   731 8 3 0   4,910 4 , 8 1 0
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   80   67 5 , 8 1 0   4,620
T o t a l   M i n e   L e a s e s
     Measured   80 3   758 5 , 7 9 0   5,650
     Indicated   1 , 2 2 0   1,201 5 , 6 9 0   5,790
          M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   2,024 1 , 9 5 9   5,730 5 , 7 3 0
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   1 3 0   144 6 , 1 2 0   5,710
 
Footnotes appear at the end of the section.
 
Other 
information
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 155 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates continued
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Coal continued
Anglo Coal
      Tonnes
(3)
  Heat content
(5)
Coal Resources
( 6 )
  Reported
(2)
 Attributable
(2)
    million kcal/kg
Projects  % % Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006
        M T I S
(6)
  MTIS
(6)
 G A R
(5)
  GAR 
(5)
 Australia    Measured   4 9 6   489 6 , 2 80   6,280
     Indicated   7 3 3   734 6 , 3 9 0   6,390
      1 0 0   8 1 . 1   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   1,228   1 , 2 2 3   6,350   6 , 3 5 0
 China    Measured   1 1 0   110 6 , 5 40   6,540
     Indicated   3 8 9   389 6 , 6 0 0   6,600
      1 0 0   6 0   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   499 4 9 9   6,590 6 , 5 9 0
 South Africa    Measured   8 4 3   285 4 , 4 3 0   4,830
     Indicated   6 2 0   1,311 4 , 9 1 0   4,640
      1 0 0   7 4 . 1   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   1,462 1 , 5 9 6   4,630 4 , 6 7 0
T o t a l   P r o j ec t s     Measured   1 , 4 4 8   883 5 , 2 2 0   5,840
     Indicated   1 , 7 4 2   2,435 5 , 9 1 0   5,480
          M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   3,190 3 , 3 1 8   5,600 5 , 5 80
       Tonnes
(3)
  Heat content
(5)
        million  kcal/kg
Mine Leases and Projects    Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006
      MTIS
(6)
 MTIS
(6)
 GAR
(5)
 GAR
(5) 
T o t a l   C o a l   R e s o u r c e s    Measured   2 , 2 5 2   1,641 5 , 4 2 0   5,760
     Indicated   2 , 9 6 2   3,636 5 , 8 2 0   5,580
          M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   5,214 5 , 2 7 7   5,650 5 , 6 40
     Inferred in Mine Plan
(7)
   1 3 0   144 6 , 1 2 0   5,710
       Tonnes
(3)
  Heat content
(5)
   Reported
(2)
 Attributable
(2)
    million  kcal/kg
Brown Coal Resources  % % Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006
        M T I S
(6)
  MTIS
(6)
 G A R
(5)
  GAR
(5)
 Australia    Measured   5 , 0 9 5   4,028 1 , 8 2 0   1,820
     Indicated   5 , 2 2 1   2,448 1 , 7 9 0   1,790
      1 0 0   1 0 0   M e a s u r ed   an d   I n d i c a t ed   10,316 6 , 4 7 6   1,800 1 , 8 1 0
Gas
The Gas Reserve estimates are compiled in accordance with the Society of Petroleum Engineers and World Petroleum Council guidelines. 
   
 
     V o l u m e
(8)  
E n e r g y   C o n t e n t
(8)
Anglo Coal
  
Reported
(2) 
Attributable
(2)     
m i l li o n   m
3  
P J
Gas Reserves
(8)
  % % Classification 2007 2006 2007 2006
C o a l   B ed   M e t h an e     SALEABLE
(8)
 SALEABLE
(8)
 SALEABLE
(8) 
SALEABLE
(8)
 Australia    Proved: 1P   1 , 5 5 3   1,814 5 8   68
     Probable: 2P-1P 2 , 8 2 8   2 , 8 7 5   1 0 6 1 0 7
      1 0 0   5 1   T o t a l :   2 P   4,381 4 , 6 8 9 164 1 7 5
 
(1)
  Coal Reserves are quoted on a Run Of Mine (ROM) reserve tonnage basis, which represent the tonnes delivered to the plant, and on a Saleable reserve tonnage basis,  
which represent the product tonnes produced.
(2)
 Reported (%) and Attributable (%) refers to 2007 only. For the 2006 Reported and Attributable figures, please refer to the 2006 Annual Report.
(3)
 The tonnage is quoted as metric tonnes and where applicable abbreviated as Mt for million tonnes.
(4)
 Yield (%) represents the ratio of Saleable reserve tonnes to ROM reserve tonnes and is quoted on a constant moisture basis or on an air dried to air dried basis.
(5)
  The coal quality for the Coal Reserves is quoted as a weighted average of the heat content of all Saleable coal products on a Gross As Received (GAR) basis. The coal quality 
for the Coal Resources is reported on an in situ heat content Gross As Received (GAR) basis.
  Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Export Metallurgical and Export Thermal collieries meet the contractual specifications for coking coal, PCI, metallurgical coal, 
steam coal and domestic coal. 
 Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Domestic Power Generation and Domestic Synfuels collieries meet the specifications of the individual supply contracts.
(6)
  Coal Resources are quoted on a Mineable Tonnage In Situ (MTIS) basis in addition to those resources which have been modified to produce the reported Coal Reserves.
(7)
  Inferred in Mine Plan refers to Inferred Coal Resources that are included in the life of mine schedule of the respective collieries but which are not reported as Coal Reserves. 
(8) 
Gas Reserves are reported in terms of saleable volume (million cubic metres) and saleable energy (Petajoules (PJ), or one thousand trillion Joules).
Other 
information
156 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007  
Reserves
S u mm a r y   o f   m a t e r i a l   c h a n ge s   ( + / - 1 0 % )   a t   r e p o r t i n g   l e v e l
E x p o r t   M e t a l l u r g i c a l   –   C a na d a : Increase in Coal Reserves by 16Mt (+100%) brought about by the acquisition of Peace River Coal (Anglo American’s interest in Peace River Coal 
is 65.9%). 
E x p o r t   M e t a l l u r g i c a l   –   S o u t h   A f r i c a : Decrease in Coal Reserves by 3Mt (-47%) brought about principally by the transfer out of 2Mt of Coal Reserves at Bank 5 Colliery due to the 
closure of the mine for economic reasons. 
D o m e s t i c   P o w e r   G e n e r a t i o n   –   S o u t h   A f r i c a : The increase in reserves of 53Mt (+7%) is due primarily to the conversion of Maccauvlei West Mine Lease Coal Resources to 103Mt 
of Coal Reserves at New Vaal (+14%).
M a t e r i a l   c h a n ge   i n   a t tr i b u t a b l e   r e s e r v e s   a t   r e p o r t i n g   l e v e l
In 2007 Anglo Coal created a black economic empowerment (BEE) company, Anglo Inyosi Coal, into which it is transferring certain of its South African assets. A total of 27% of 
these transferred assets will be disposed of to BEE partners and the differences in the attributable ownership percentage between the 2006 and 2007 reporting periods reflect 
this change in ownership within Anglo Coal in the South African Domestic Power Generation Coal Reserves. This change does not impact on the reportable reserves, but reduces 
the attributable Coal Reserves of Kriel Colliery to 73% (a reduction of 42Mt).
A s s u m p t i o n   w i t h   r e s p e c t   t o   M i n e r a l   T e n u r e
V e n e z u e l a : Although the Carbones del Guasare mining concession terminates in 2013, life of mine Coal Reserves extending beyond this date are included in the 2007 
Reserve statement. 
S o u t h   A f r i c a : Where applications for Mining Rights have been submitted and these are still being processed by the relevant regulatory authorities, the relevant Coal Reserves 
have been included in the statement. Where applications for the conversion of old order mining licences to new order Mining Rights have not yet been submitted these have been 
included in the statement, as the deadline for submission is typically April 2009.
Resources
S u mm a r y   o f   m a t e r i a l   c h a n ge s   ( + / - 1 0 % )   a t   r e p o r t i n g   l e v e l
M i n e   L e a s e   R e s o u r c e s
E x p o r t   M e t a l l u r g i c a l   –   C a na d a : Increase in Coal Resources by 3Mt (+100%) brought about by the acquisition of Peace River Coal. 
E x p o r t   M e t a l l u r g i c a l   –   S o u t h   A f r i c a : Decrease in Coal Resources by 24Mt (-95%) brought about by the transfer out of Mine Lease Coal Resources at Bank 5 Colliery due to the 
closure of the mine for economic reasons. 
E x p o r t   T h e r m a l   –   A u s tr a l i a : The increase in Coal Resources of 28Mt (+145%) is due mainly to the acquisition of a 23.3% interest in Jellinbah Colliery. Although Jellinbah was 
acquired in 2002, it was not previously reported since a JORC compliant resource and reserve statement was only completed during 2007.  
E x p o r t   T h e r m a l   –   S o u t h   A f r i c a : The increase in Coal Resources of 136Mt (+34%) is brought about principally by the transfer of Project Resources to Mine Lease Resources 
at Zondagsfontein Colliery (174Mt). 
D o m e s t i c   P o w e r   G e n e r a t i o n   –   S o u t h   A f r i c a : The decrease in resources of 82Mt (-31%) is due primarily to the conversion of 100Mt of Maccauvlei West Mine Lease Resources 
to Reserves at New Vaal.
P r o j e c t   R e s o u r c e s
S o u t h   A f r i c a : The net decrease of 134Mt (-8%) was brought about principally by the transfer of Zondagsfontein Project Resources to Zondagsfontein Colliery Mine Lease 
Resources.  
A u s tr a l i a   –   B r o w n   C o a l : Monash Energy brown coal resources increased by 3,840Mt (+59%) due to a revised resource evaluation (model refinement) during 2007.
M a t e r i a l   c h a n ge   i n   a t tr i b u t a b l e   r e s o u r c e s   a t   r e p o r t i n g   l e v e l
In 2007 Anglo Coal created a black economic empowerment (BEE) company, Anglo Inyosi Coal, into which it is transferring certain of its South African assets. A total of 27% 
of these transferred assets will be disposed of to BEE partners. The differences in the attributable ownership percentage between the 2006 and 2007 reporting periods reflect 
this change in ownership within Anglo Coal in the South African Domestic Power Generation Mine Lease Coal Resources and in the South African Project Coal Resources. This 
change does not impact on the reportable resources, but reduces the attributable Mine Lease Resources of Kriel and Zondagsfontein Collieries to 73% (a reduction of 73Mt). 
Likewise, the Project Resources of the South Rand, Elders, New Largo, Oogiesfontein and Zondagsfontein projects are reduced to 73% (a reduction of 357Mt).
A s s u m p t i o n s   w i t h   r e s p e c t   t o   M i n e r a l   T e n u r e
V e n e z u e l a : Although the Carbones del Guasare mining concession terminates in 2013, Mine Lease Coal Resources that may be included in a mine plan beyond this date are 
included in the 2007 Resource statement. 
S o u t h   A f r i c a : Where applications for Mining Rights have been submitted and these are still being processed by the relevant regulatory authorities, the relevant Mine Lease Coal 
Resources have been included in the statement. Where applications for the conversion of old order mining licences to new order Mining Rights have not yet been submitted these 
have been included in the statement, as the deadline for submission is typically April 2009.
Where applications for Prospecting Rights have been submitted and these are still being processed by the relevant regulatory authorities, the relevant Project Coal Resources have 
been included in the statement. Where applications for Prospecting Rights have been initially refused by the regulatory authorities, most of these rights have now been granted 
and the remaining three refused applications are still the subject of ongoing legal review and Anglo Coal has reasonable expectations that the Prospecting Rights will be granted 
in due course, the relevant Project Coal Resources have been included in the statement. As at 31 December 2007, a total of 40.1Mt of the reported Project Coal Resources were 
associated with two applications for new order Prospecting Rights that have been initially refused and are now the subject of ongoing legal process and discussions with the 
relevant authorities. Consistent with the principles adopted in the reporting of Project Coal Resources in South Africa previously, Anglo Coal currently expects that the outcome 
of such review and discussions will be favourable. An application for New Order Mining Rights was submitted for Zondagsfontein Colliery during 2007.
R e v i e w s   w e r e   c a r r i e d   o u t   i n   2 00 7   o n   t h e   f o l l o w i n g   Op e r a t i o n s   a n d   P r o j e c t   a r e a s :
S o u t h   A f r i c a : Goedehoop, Isibonelo, Landau, New Denmark, New Largo, South Rand, Zondagsfontein  
A u s tr a l i a : Callide, Dawson South 
C o l o m b i a : Carbones del Cerrejón.
T h e   f o l l o w i n g   Op e r a t i o n s   a n d   P r o j e c t s   c o n tr i b u t e d   t o   t h e   2 00 7   C o a l   R e s e r v e   a n d   C o a l   R e s o u r c e   e s t i m a t e s :
C o l l i e r y   R e s e r v e s   a n d   M i n e   L e a s e   R e s o u r c e s
E x p o r t   S o u t h   A f r i c a   R e s e r v e s : Bank, Goedehoop, Greenside, Kleinkopje, Landau, Mafube, Nooitgedacht, Zondagsfontein 
E x p o r t   A u s tr a l i a   R e s e r v e s : Drayton, Dawson, German Creek, Jellinbah, Moranbah North 
E x p o r t   C o l o m b i a   R e s e r v e s : Carbones del Cerrejón 
E x p o r t   V e n e z u e l a   R e s e r v e s : Carbones del Guasare 
E x p o r t   C a na d a   R e s e r v e s : Trend (Peace River) 
D o m e s t i c   S o u t h   A f r i c a   R e s e r v e s : Isibonelo, Kriel, New Denmark, New Vaal 
D o m e s t i c   A u s tr a l i a   R e s e r v e s : Callide
P r o j e c t   R e s o u r c e s
S o u t h   A f r i c a : Elders, New Largo, Nooitedacht (Kriel), Oogiesfontein, South Rand, Vaalbank, Zondagsfontein 
A u s tr a l i a : Dartbrook, Grosvenor, Monash, Moranbah South, Saddlers Creek, Theodore South 
C h i na : Xiwan
G a s   R e s e r v e s
A u s tr a l i a : Dawson Seam Gas
 
Other 
information
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 157 158 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Other 
information
Production statistics
The figures below include the entire output of consolidated entities and the Group’s share of joint ventures, joint arrangements and associates 
where applicable, except for Collahuasi in Base Metals and De Beers which are quoted on a 100% basis.
        2007  2006
Anglo Platinum (troy ounces)
(1)(2)
Platinum       2,508,800  2,863,900
Palladium       1,406,200  1,563,000
Rhodium       333,100  331,700
        4,248,100  4,758,600
Nickel (tonnes)
(3)
       19,500  21,700
Copper (tonnes)
(3)
       11,100  11,400
Gold       99,000  115,400
Anglo Coal (tonnes)
South Africa
Eskom       34,064,000  34,821,200
Trade – Thermal       23,952,400  22,754,000
Trade – Metallurgical       1,143,700  1,768,200
        59,160,100  59,343,400
Australia
(4)
Thermal       15,059,300  15,258,400
Metallurgical       10,145,400  9,195,600
        25,204,700  24,454,000
South America
Thermal       11,259,800  11,008,900
Total       95,624,600  94,806,300
Anglo Coal (tonnes)
South Africa
Bank       51,900  477,600
Greenside       3,314,900  2,778,100
Goedehoop       8,456,200  8,534,500
Isibonelo       5,001,000  4,020,100
Kriel       11,210,100  12,318,400
Kleinkopje       3,490,700  3,898,400
Landau       4,058,200  4,102,400
New Denmark       5,134,700  5,508,500
New Vaal       17,119,500  16,275,000
Nooitgedacht       565,700  711,000
Mafube       757,200  719,400
        59,160,100  59,343,400
Australia
(4)
Callide       10,031,100  9,816,100
Drayton       3,902,700  4,136,300
German Creek (Capcoal)       4,115,700  3,165,400
Jellinbah East       891,800  887,400
Moranbah       3,211,600  2,928,500
Dawson Complex       3,051,800  3,520,300
        25,204,700  24,454,000
South America
Carbones del Guasare       1,384,400  1,531,700
Carbones del Cerrejón       9,875,400  9,477,200
        11,259,800  11,008,900
Total       95,624,600  94,806,300
 
(1)
 See the published results of Anglo Platinum Limited and Northam Platinum Limited for further analysis of production information.
(2)
  Includes Anglo Platinum Limited’s 22.5% share of Northam Platinum Limited’s production for 12 months in 2006 and the nine months to 30 September 2007 at which 
time Anglo Platinum Limited’s investment in Northam Platinum Limited was transferred to a disposal group.
(3)
 Also disclosed within total attributable nickel and copper production.
(4)
 2006 excludes production at Dartbrook which was closed in the year. Production for Dartbrook was 792,000 tonnes in 2006. 159 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Other 
information
        2007  2006
De Beers (diamonds recovered – carats)
100% basis (Anglo American 45%)
Debswana       33,638,000  34,293,000
Namdeb       2,176,000  2,084,800
De Beers Consolidated Mines       14,998,000  14,568,900
Williamson       220,000  189,400
Canada       81,000  –
        51,113,000  51,136,100
Anglo Base Metals
Copper
(1)
Collahuasi
100% basis (Anglo American 44%)
Ore mined      tonnes  61,969,800  45,843,300
Ore processed Oxide    tonnes  7,129,200  6,390,300
  Sulphide    tonnes  43,679,900  41,347,700
Ore grade processed Oxide    % Cu  0.8  1.0
  Sulphide    % Cu  1.0  1.0
Production Copper concentrate   dry metric tonnes  1,346,000  1,312,400
  Copper cathode   tonnes  58,100  59,800
  Copper in concentrate   tonnes  393,900  380,200
Total copper production for Collahuasi     tonnes  452,000  440,000
Anglo American Sur 
(formerly Minera Sur Andes)
Los Bronces mine
Ore mined      tonnes  26,503,300  22,346,200
Marginal ore mined      tonnes  35,744,000  35,538,000
Las Tortolas concentrator Ore processed    tonnes  21,125,300  20,514,700
  Ore grade processed   % Cu  1.0  1.0
  Average recovery   %  85.3  88.1
Production Copper concentrate   dry metric tonnes  607,400  555,900
  Copper cathode   tonnes  48,300  42,500
  Copper in concentrate   tonnes  182,900  183,500
  Total    tonnes  231,200  226,000
El Soldado mine
Ore mined  Open pit – ore mined   tonnes  6,283,000  5,812,300
  Open pit – marginal ore mined  tonnes  76,600  110,800
  Underground (sulphide)   tonnes  1,514,900  2,028,600
  Total    tonnes  7,874,500  7,951,700
Ore processed Oxide    tonnes  791,900  654,200
  Sulphide    tonnes  7,400,900  7,527,700
Ore grade processed Oxide    % Cu  1.4  1.4
  Sulphide    % Cu  1.1  1.0
Production Copper concentrate   dry metric tonnes  229,700  222,900
  Copper cathode   tonnes  7,500  6,500
  Copper in concentrate   tonnes  65,300  62,200
  Total    tonnes  72,800  68,700
 
(1)
  Copper production figures exclude Palabora. 160 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Other 
information
        2007  2006
Anglo Base Metals (continued)
Chagres Smelter
Copper concentrate smelted     tonnes  168,100  183,200
Production Copper blister/anodes   tonnes  164,100  173,400
  Acid    tonnes  493,400  499,200
Total copper production for the Anglo American Sur group   tonnes  304,000  294,700
Anglo American Norte 
(formerly Mantos Blancos)
Mantos Blancos mine
Ore processed Oxide    tonnes  4,587,900  4,533,800
  Sulphide    tonnes  3,879,800  3,979,800
  Marginal ore mined   tonnes  5,862,900  6,307,300
Ore grade processed Oxide    % Cu (soluble)  0.7  0.8
  Sulphide    % Cu (insoluble)  1.1  1.1
  Marginal ore    % Cu (soluble)  0.3  0.8
Production Copper concentrate   dry metric tonnes  105,900  123,800
  Copper cathode   tonnes  48,700  49,100
  Copper in concentrate   tonnes  40,200  42,600
  Total    tonnes  88,900  91,700
Mantoverde mine
Ore processed Oxide    tonnes  9,280,700  9,502,300 
  Marginal ore    tonnes  5,511,100  4,879,900 
Ore grade processed Oxide    % Cu (soluble)  0.7  0.7
  Marginal ore    % Cu (soluble)  0.3  0.3
Production Copper cathode   tonnes  61,000  60,300
Black Mountain     tonnes  2,200  3,400
Total Anglo Base Metals copper production    tonnes  655,000  643,800
Anglo Platinum copper production  
Production
(1)
     tonnes  11,100  11,400
Total attributable copper production     tonnes  666,100  655,200
Nickel, Niobium, Mineral Sands and Phosphates
Nickel
Codemin
Ore mined     tonnes  539,300  487,600
Ore processed     tonnes  522,600  518,600
Ore grade processed     % Ni  2.1  2.1
Production     tonnes  9,900  9,800
Loma de Níquel
Ore mined     tonnes  1,183,200  1,324,300
Ore processed     tonnes  1,096,100  1,205,000
Ore grade processed     % Ni  1.6  1.6
Production     tonnes  15,700  16,600
Total Anglo Base Metals nickel production    tonnes  25,600  26,400
Anglo Platinum nickel production 
Production
(1)
     tonnes  19,500  21,700
Total attributable nickel production     tonnes  45,100  48,100
Niobium 
Catalão
Ore mined     tonnes  852,500  795,400
Ore processed     tonnes  831,700  813,900
Ore grade processed     Kg Nb/tonne  10.9  10.9
Production     tonnes  4,700  4,700
 
(1)
  Includes Anglo Platinum Limited’s 22.5% share of Northam Platinum Limited’s production for 12 months in 2006 and the nine months to 30 September 2007 at which 
time Anglo Platinum Limited’s investment in Northam Platinum Limited was transferred to a disposal group.
Production statistics continued 161 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Other 
information
        2007  2006
Anglo Base Metals (continued)
Mineral Sands
Namakwa Sands
Ore mined     tonnes  18,111,700  17,382,700
Production Ilmenite    tonnes  300,300  272,200
  Rutile    tonnes  24,500  28,200
  Zircon    tonnes  114,800  128,400
Smelter production Slag tapped    tonnes  151,300  133,900
  Iron tapped    tonnes  101,800  88,900
Phosphates
Copebrás
Sodium tripolyphosphate     tonnes  56,700  71,100
Phosphates     tonnes  1,037,800  901,500
Zinc and Lead
Black Mountain
Ore mined     tonnes  1,065,200  1,544,500
Ore processed     tonnes  1,099,600  1,403,800
Ore grade processed Zinc    % Zn  3.2  3.4
  Lead    % Pb  4.3  4.1
  Copper    % Cu  0.3  0.4
Production Zinc in concentrate   tonnes  28,300  34,100
  Lead in concentrate    tonnes  41,900  48,300
  Copper in concentrate    tonnes  2,200  3,400
Lisheen
Ore mined     tonnes  1,584,700  1,605,900
Ore processed     tonnes  1,513,600  1,527,600
Ore grade processed Zinc    % Zn  12.0  12.3
  Lead    % Pb  1.9  2.1
Production Zinc in concentrate   tonnes  164,700  170,700
  Lead in concentrate   tonnes  20,200  23,100
Skorpion
Ore mined     tonnes  1,402,300  1,456,500
Ore processed     tonnes  1,379,600  1,311,800
Ore grade processed Zinc    % Zn  11.7  11.8
Production Zinc     tonnes  150,100  129,900
Total attributable zinc production     tonnes  343,100  334,700
Total attributable lead production     tonnes  62,100  71,400 162 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Other 
information
        2007  2006
Anglo Ferrous Metals and Industries
Kumba Iron Ore Limited
Lump     tonnes  19,043,000  18,639,800
Fines     tonnes  13,357,000  12,470,300
Total iron ore     tonnes  32,400,000  31,110,100
Scaw Metals
South Africa – Steel Products     tonnes  776,000  723,000
International – Steel Products     tonnes  803,000  696,000
Samancor
(1)
Manganese ore     mtu m  104  97
Manganese alloys     tonnes  310,000  277,200
Anglo Industrial Minerals
Aggregates     tonnes  95,393,300  92,268,200
Lime products     tonnes  1,836,300  1,428,900
Concrete     m
3
  8,858,400  8,526,800
Anglo Paper and Packaging 
Mondi Packaging
Packaging papers     tonnes  1,480,577  2,894,700
Corrugated board and boxes     m m
2
  985  2,103
Paper sacks     m units  1,910  3,606
Coating and release liners     m m
2
  1,549  2,360
Pulp – external     tonnes  91,834  180,200
Mondi Business Paper
Uncoated wood free paper     tonnes  1,039,145  2,012,300
Newsprint     tonnes  99,738  187,100
Pulp – external     tonnes  84,563  114,100
Wood chips     green metric tonnes 362,089  886,600
Mondi Packaging South Africa
Packaging papers     tonnes  141,339  369,300
Corrugated board and boxes     m m
2
  171  328
Newsprint joint ventures and other
Newsprint (attributable share)     tonnes  156,103  320,900
Aylesford     tonnes  94,354  196,865
Shanduka     tonnes  61,749  124,012
 
(1) 
Saleable production.
 
Production statistics continued 163 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Other 
information
Exchange rates and commodity prices
          2007 2006
US$ exchange rates
Average spot prices for the year
Rand        7.05 6.77
Sterling        0.50 0.54
Euro        0.73 0.80
Australian dollar        1.19 1.33
Chilean peso        522 530
Closing spot prices
Rand        6.84 7.00
Sterling        0.50 0.51
Euro        0.68 0.76
Australian dollar        1.14 1.27
Chilean peso        498 533
         2007 2006
Commodity prices
Average market prices for the year
Platinum      US$/oz  1,304 1,142
Palladium      US$/oz  355 321
Rhodium      US$/oz  6,200 4,571
Copper      US cents/lb  323 305
Nickel      US cents/lb  1,686 1,095
Zinc      US cents/lb  147 148
Lead      US cents/lb  118 58
Gold      US$/oz  696 604
European eucalyptus pulp price (CIF)      US$/tonne  678
(1)
 638
 
(1)
 Average market price for the six months ended 30 June 2007. 164 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Other 
information
Key financial data
US$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2007 2006
(1) 
2005
(1) 
2004
(1)
Group revenue including associates 30,559 29,404 24,872 22,610
Less: Share of associates’ revenue (5,089) (4,413) (4,740) (5,429)
Group revenue 25,470 24,991 20,132 17,181
Operating profit including associates before special items and remeasurements 9,590 8,888 5,549 3,832
Special items and remeasurements (excluding financing special items and remeasurements) (227) 24 16 556
Net finance costs (including remeasurements), tax and minority interests of associates (434) (398) (315) (391)
Total profit from operations and associates 8,929 8,514 5,250 3,997
Net finance costs (including special items and remeasurements) (108) (71) (220) (385)
Profit before tax 8,821 8,443 5,030 3,612
Income tax expense (2,693) (2,518) (1,208) (765)
Profit for the financial year – continuing operations 6,128 5,925 3,822 2,847
Profit for the financial year – discontinued operations 2,044 997 111 1,094
Profit for the financial year – total Group 8,172 6,922 3,933 3,941
Minority interests (868) (736) (412) (440)
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 7,304 6,186 3,521 3,501
Underlying earnings
(2)
 – continuing operations 5,477 5,019 3,335 2,178
Underlying earnings
(2)
 – discontinued operations 284 452 401 506
Underlying earnings
(2)
 – total Group 5,761 5,471 3,736 2,684
Earnings per share ($) – continuing operations 4.04 3.51 2.35 1.84
Earnings per share ($) – discontinued operations 1.54 0.70 0.08 0.60
Earnings per share ($) – total Group 5.58 4.21 2.43 2.44
Underlying earnings per share ($) – continuing operations 4.18 3.42 2.30 1.52
Underlying earnings per share ($) – discontinued operations 0.22 0.31 0.28 0.35
Underlying earnings per share ($) – total Group 4.40 3.73 2.58 1.87
Ordinary dividend per share (US cents) 124.0 108.0 90.0 70.0
Special dividend per share (US cents) – 67.0 33.0 –
Weighted average number of shares outstanding (million) 1,309 1,468 1,447 1,434
EBITDA
(3)
 – continuing operations 11,171 10,431 7,172 5,359
EBITDA
(3)
 – discontinued operations 961 1,766 1,787 1,672
EBITDA
(3)
 – total Group 12,132 12,197 8,959 7,031
EBITDA interest cover
(4)
 – total Group 42.0 45.5 20.0 18.5
Operating margin (before special items and remeasurements) – total Group 28.4% 25.4% 18.5% 14.7%
Ordinary dividend cover (based on underlying earnings per share) – total Group 3.5 3.5 2.9 2.7
Balance sheet
Intangible and tangible assets 25,090 25,632 33,368 35,816
Other non-current assets and investments 8,952 7,819 5,375 5,375
Working capital 2,125 3,246 3,719 3,715
Other net current liabilities (877) (1,177) (1,492) (611)
Other non-current liabilities and obligations (6,261) (5,790) (8,399) (8,339)
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings
(5)
 (5,170) (3,244) (4,993) (8,243)
Net assets classified as held for sale 471 641 – –
Net assets 24,330 27,127 27,578 27,713
Minority interests (1,869) (2,856) (3,957) (4,588)
Equity attributable to the equity shareholders of the Company 22,461 24,271 23,621 23,125
Total capital
(6)
 29,569 30,451 32,571 35,956 
Cash inflows from operations – continuing operations 9,375 9,012 5,963 3,857
Cash inflows from operations – discontinued operations 470 1,045 1,302 1,434
Cash inflows from operations – total Group 9,845 10,057 7,265 5,291
Dividends received from associates and financial asset investments – continuing operations 311 251 468 380
Dividends received from associates and financial asset investments – discontinued operations 52 37 2 16
Dividends received from associates and financial asset investments – total Group 363 288 470 396
Return on capital employed
(7)
 – total Group 37.8% 32.4% 19.2% 14.6%
EBITDA/average total capital
(6)
 – total Group 40.4% 38.7% 26.0% 21.2%
Net debt to total capital
(8)
 20.0% 12.9% 17.0% 25.4% 165 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Other 
information
US$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2003 
(9)(10)
Group turnover including share of joint ventures and associates 24,909
Less: Share of joint ventures’ turnover (1,060)
 Share of associates’ turnover (5,212)
Group turnover – subsidiaries 18,637
Operating profit before exceptional items 2,892
Operating exceptional items (286)
Total operating profit 2,606
Non-operating exceptional items 386
Net interest expense (319)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 2,673
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (749)
Tax on exceptional items 13
Equity minority interests (345)
Profit for the financial year  1,592
Underlying earnings
(2)
  1,694
Earnings per share ($) 1.13
Underlying earnings per share ($) 1.20
Dividend per share (US cents) 54.0
Basic number of shares outstanding (million) 1,415
EBITDA
(3)
  4,785
EBITDA interest cover
(4)
 9.3
Operating margin (before exceptional items) 11.6%
Dividend cover (based on underlying earnings) 2.2
Balance sheet
Intangible and tangible fixed assets  26,646
Investments  7,206
Working capital  1,903
Provisions for liabilities and charges (3,954)
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings (8,633)
Equity minority interests  (3,396)
Total shareholders’ funds (equity)  19,772
Total capital
(6)
 31,801
Net cash inflow from operating activities  3,184
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 426
Return on capital employed
(7) 
 10.7%
EBITDA/average total capital
(6)
  17.3%
Net debt to total capital
(8)
  32.0%
 
Years 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 are prepared under IFRS. 2003 is prepared under UK GAAP.
(1)
  Comparatives have been adjusted to reclassify amounts relating to discontinued operations where applicable.
(2)
  Underlying earnings is net profit attributable to equity shareholders, adjusted for the effect of special items and remeasurements and any related tax and minority interests.
(3)
  EBITDA is operating profit before special items, operating remeasurements (2003: exceptional items), depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and joint ventures and 
share of EBITDA of associates.
(4)
  EBITDA interest cover is EBITDA divided by net finance costs, excluding other net financial income, exchange gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities, amortisation of 
discounts on provisions, special items and financial remeasurements (2003: exceptional items), but including share of associates’ net interest expense.
(5)
  This differs to the Group’s measure of net debt as it excludes the net debt of Net assets classified as held for sale (2007: ($69) million; 2006: ($80) million), and excludes 
the impact of derivative instruments that provide an economic hedge of assets and liabilities in net debt (2007: $388 million; 2006: $193 million). For more detail see note 
31 Consolidated cash flow analysis.
(6)
 Total capital is net assets excluding net debt (excluding the impact of derivative instruments).
(7)
  Return on capital employed is calculated as total operating profit before impairments for the year divided by the average of total capital less other investments and adjusted 
for impairments.
(8) 
 Net debt to total capital is calculated as net debt (excluding the impact of derivative instruments) divided by total capital less investments in associates.
(9) 
 2003 has been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
(10)
 The 2003 UK GAAP numbers include all business segments. The results have not been adjusted to reclassify amounts relating to Gold and Paper and Packaging.
  166 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Other 
information
    Revenue
(1)
  EBITDA
(2)
 Operating profit/(loss)
(3)
 Underlying earnings
US$ million   2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Continuing operations         
Platinum  6,789 5,861 3,155 2,845 2,697 2,398 1,299 1,265
Diamonds  3,076 3,148 587 541 484 463 239 227
Coal
(4)
  3,574 3,364 882 1,082 614 862 490 637
South Africa  1,538 1,394 481 437 414 380 296 279
Australia  1,389 1,398 166 397 9 279 24 216
South America  627 541 271 271 227 227 175 163
Projects and corporate  20 31 (36) (23) (36) (24) (5) (21)
Base Metals
(4)
  7,129 6,534 4,683 4,255 4,338 3,897 3,100 2,655
Copper  4,507 4,537 3,192 3,238 2,983 3,019 2,060 1,908
Collahuasi  1,383 1,442 1,062 1,037 998 962 701 586
Anglo American Sur  
(formerly Minera Sur Andes)
(5)
  2,273 2,219 1,630 1,640 1,518 1,533 1,026 996
Anglo American Norte 
(formerly Mantos Blancos)
(5)
  851 876 507 563 474 526 340 328
Other  – – (7) (2) (7) (2) (7) (2)
Nickel, Niobium, Mineral Sands and Phosphates 1,583 1,081 842 492 786 426 555 278
Codemin  325 219 242 144 234 136 178 96
Loma de Níquel  553 334 390 229 370 209 243 134
Catalão  106 66 57 26 55 25 60 15
Namakwa Sands  184 180 44 52 44 35 31 25
Copebrás  415 282 109 41 83 21 43 8 
Zinc  1,039 916 729 588 654 516 558 525
Black Mountain  165 148 93 42 83 31 65 38
Lisheen  364 396 242 280 227 265 174 287
Skorpion  510 372 394 266 344 220 319 200
Other  – – (80) (63) (85) (64) (73) (56)
Ferrous Metals and Industries  5,400 6,519 1,561 1,560 1,432 1,360 605 583
Kumba  1,635 2,259 879 879 834 778 274 302
Scaw Metals  1,432 1,233 204 188 172 160 97 106
Samancor Group  665 425 249 51 225 52 169 38
Highveld Steel  369 1,023 108 247 108 230 18 79
Tongaat-Hulett/Hulamin
(6)
  1,293 1,572 140 207 114 154 44 55
Other  6 7 (19) (12) (21) (14) 3 3
Industrial Minerals
(4)
  4,591 3,978 732 539 474 317 384 261
Exploration  – – (157) (132) (157) (132) (145) (113)
Corporate Activities  – – (272) (259) (292) (277) (495) (496)
Total continuing operations  30,559 29,404 11,171 10,431 9,590 8,888 5,477 5,019
Discontinued operations
Gold  1,004 1,740 401 843 202 467 95 178
Paper and Packaging  4,111 7,493 560 923 324 477 189 274
Mondi Packaging  2,296 4,132 316 528 195 287 137 208
Mondi Business Paper  1,204 2,215 198 297 105 130 62 51
Other  611 1,146 46 98 24 60 (10) 15
Total discontinued operations  5,115 9,233 961 1,766 526 944 284 452
Total Group  35,674 38,637 12,132 12,197 10,116 9,832 5,761 5,471
 
(1)
  Revenue includes the Group’s share of revenue of joint ventures and associates. Base Metals’ revenue is shown after deduction of treatment charges and refining charges 
(TC/RCs). 
(2)
 EBITDA is operating profit before special items, remeasurements, depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and joint ventures and share of EBITDA of associates.
(3)
  Operating profit includes operating profit before special items and remeasurements from subsidiaries and joint ventures and share of operating profit (before interest, tax,  
minority interests, special items and remeasurements) of associates.
(4)
  Copebrás has been reclassified from Industrial Minerals to Base Metals and Yang Quarry has been reclassified from Industrial Minerals to Coal to align with internal 
management reporting. As such the comparative data has been reclassified accordingly.
(5)
  Revenue in 2007 and 2006 includes intercompany sales between Anglo American Norte and Anglo American Sur. The external revenue in 2007 is $2,266 million 
(2006: $2,372 million) for Anglo American Sur and $858 million (2006: $723 million) for Anglo American Norte.
(6)
  Includes 100% of the results of the Tongaat-Hulett Group from 1 January to 25 June 2007, and the Group’s equity accounted share of Tongaat-Hulett and Hulamin since 
that date. For more detail see note 35 to the Financial statements.
Summary by business segment 167 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Other 
information
Reconciliation of subsidiaries’ and associates’ reported earnings to the underlying 
earnings included in the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007. Note only key reported lines are reconciled.
US$ million         2007
Anglo Platinum Limited
IFRS headline earnings (US$ equivalent of published)        1,748
Exploration         36
Exchange rate difference         4
Other adjustments         (10)
          1,778
Minority interests         (443)
Depreciation on assets fair valued on acquisition (net of tax)       (36)
Contribution to Anglo American plc underlying earnings       1,299
DB Investments (DBI) 
De Beers underlying earnings (100%)         483
Difference in IAS 19 accounting policy         13
De Beers underlying earnings – Anglo American plc basis (100%)       496
Anglo American plc’s 45% ordinary share interest        223
Income from preference shares         16
Contribution to Anglo American plc underlying earnings       239
Kumba Iron Ore Limited (KIO)
IFRS headline earnings (US$ equivalent of published)
(1)
       434
Other adjustments         7
          441
Minority interests         (155)
Depreciation on assets fair valued on acquisition (net of tax)       (12)
Contribution to Anglo American plc underlying earnings       274
 
(1)
  The KIO IFRS headline earnings for the year ended 31 December 2007 assume a minority interest of 20% in KIO’s underlying mining assets.
The Tongaat-Hulett Group Limited (THG)
IFRS headline earnings (US$ equivalent of published)        (22)
IFRS 2 charge and unbundling cost
(1)
         47
          25
Minority interests         (12)
          13
Anglo American plc’s share of Hulamin         2
Contribution to Anglo American plc underlying earnings
(2)
       15
 
(1)
  In terms of the THG BEE transaction, THG issued shares comprising an interest of 18% to a cane-grower BEE Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) and an infrastructure BEE SPV. 
The BEE cost in respect thereof is calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 and amounts to $45 million. This, together with relevant unbundling transaction costs, is excluded 
from Anglo American plc’s ‘Underlying earnings’ on the basis that these one-off costs are associated with the THG empowerment transaction and, thus, are not 
representative of the ongoing earnings generation of the Group. The costs, however, are included in THG’s ‘Headline earnings’ as defined by the JSE Limited.
(2)
  Relates to the period until 25 June 2007, when the Group ceased to account for THG as a subsidiary and began accounting for Tongaat-Hulett and Hulamin as associates 
under the equity method. For further details see note 35 to the Financial statements. 
AngloGold Ashanti Limited
IFRS headline earnings (published)         278
Earnings in period not equity accounted         (18)
Other adjustments         5
          265
Share of earnings not attributable to Anglo American’s 41.6% shareholding to 2 October     (155)
Depreciation on assets fair valued on acquisition (net of tax)       (15)
Contribution to Anglo American plc underlying earnings       95 168 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Other 
information
The business – an overview
100% owned
South Africa
Rustenburg Section
Amandelbult Section
Potgietersrust Platinums
Lebowa Platinum Mines
Western Limb Tailings Retreatment
Waterval Smelter (including converting process project)
Polokwane Smelter
Rustenburg Base Metals Refinery
Precious Metals Refinery
Twickenham Mine
Precious
76.5% Overall ownership:
Other interests
South Africa
Union Section 85%
Joint ventures or sharing agreements
Modikwa Platinum Joint Venture 50%
Kroondal Pooling and Sharing Agreement 50%
Bafokeng-Rasimone Joint Venture 50%
Marikana Pooling and Sharing Agreement 50%
Mototolo Joint Venture  50%
Masa Chrome Company 74%
Pandora Venture 42.5%
Northam Platinum Limited 22.5%
Anglo Platinum
South Africa
De Beers Group Services  
(Exploration and Services)
De Beers Marine
 
Canada
De Beers Canada
 Snap Lake
 Victor
Trading and Marketing
The Diamond  
Trading Company
45% De Beers
(1)
 
100% owned
Overall ownership:
100% owned
Base
100%
Other interests
Copper
Collahuasi (Chile) 44%
Palabora (South Africa) 17%
Quellaveco (Peru) 82%
Pebble (US) 50%
 
Nickel
Loma de Níquel (Venezuela) 91%
 
Phosphate products
Copebrás (Brazil) 73%
Anglo Base Metals
Copper
Chagres (Chile)
El Soldado (Chile)
Los Bronces (Chile)
Mantos Blancos (Chile)
Mantoverde (Chile)
Michiquillay (Peru)
 
Mineral Sands
Namakwa Sands (South Africa)
(3)
Nickel
Codemin (Brazil)
Barro Alto (Brazil)
 
Zinc/Lead
Black Mountain (South Africa)
(3)
Lisheen (Ireland)
Skorpion (Namibia)
Gamsberg (South Africa)
(3)
 
Niobium 
Catalão (Brazil)
South Africa
De Beers Consolidated Mines
(2)
 Cullinan 78%
 Finsch 78%
 Kimberley Mines 78%
 Namaqualand Mines 78%
 The Oaks 78%
 Venetia 78%
  South African Sea Areas 
(SASA) 78%
 
Botswana
Debswana (Damtshaa, Jwaneng, 
Orapa and Letlhakane mines) 50%
 
Namibia
Namdeb (Mining Area No. 1, 
Orange River Mines, Elizabeth  
Bay and Marine concessions)  50%
De Beers Marine Namibia 70%
 
Tanzania 
Williamson Diamonds 75%
 
Trading and Marketing
DTC Botswana 50%
Namibia DTC 50%
 
Industrial Diamonds
Companies manufacturing 
synthetic diamonds  
and abrasive products 60%
 
Diamond jewellery retail
De Beers Diamond Jewellers 50%
Other interests
Overall ownership: 169 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 |
Other 
information
(1)
  An independently managed associate.
(2)
  De Beers’ 78% holdings include a 4% indirect holding via the Key Employee Trust.
(3)
  In January 2007, Exxaro Resources Limited exercised an option in terms of which, subject to the fulfilment of conditions precedent, it agreed to acquire 100% of 
Namakwa Sands and 26% of each of Black Mountain and Gamsberg.
(4)
  Kriel forms part of the proposed Anglo Inyosi Coal of which Anglo Coal will own 73%. Heads of Agreement have been signed and the transaction will be effective upon 
the finalisation and execution of the definitive agreement relating to the deal and the fulfilment of conditions precedent contained therein.
(5)
  On 26 January 2008, the Group acquired the remaining 50% shareholding in United Marine Holdings.
100% owned
Industries
Vergelegen (South Africa)
Bulk
Anglo Ferrous Metals and Industries
100% owned
100%
South Africa
Mafube 50%
 
South Africa – other
Richards Bay Coal Terminal 27%
 
Canada
Peace River Coal 66%
 
Colombia
Carbones del Cerrejón 33%
 
Venezuela
Carbones del Guasare 25%
Australia
Dawson Complex 51%
Drayton 88%
German Creek 70%
Jellinbah East 23%
Moranbah North 88%
 
Australia – other
Dalrymple Bay Coal  
Terminal Pty Ltd 32%
Newcastle Coal Shippers  
Pty Ltd 20%
Anglo Coal
South Africa
Bank
Goedehoop
Greenside
Isibonelo
Kleinkopje
Kriel
(4)
Landau
New Denmark
New Vaal
Nooitgedacht
Australia
Callide
 
Australia – other
Monash Energy Holdings Ltd
Other interests
100% owned
Aggregates and building materials
Tarmac Group (UK)
Tarmac France (France and Belgium)
Tarmac Germany
Tarmac Poland
Tarmac Czech Republic
Tarmac Iberia (Spain)
Tarmac Turkey
Tarmac International Holdings (Far East and Middle East)
Anglo Industrial Minerals
Other interests
Aggregates and building materials
Tarmac Romania 60%
Midland Quarry Products 50%
United Marine Holdings
(5)
 50%
100%
100%
Other interests
Ferrous metals
Kumba Iron Ore (South Africa) 63.4%
Samancor (South Africa and Australia) 40%
MMX Minas-Rio (Brazil) 49%
LLX Minas-Rio (Brazil) 49%
Scaw Metals (worldwide) 74%-100%
Exxaro Resources (southern Africa and Australia) 10%
 
Industries 
Tongaat-Hulett (southern Africa) 37.2%
Hulamin (South Africa) 38.4%
Non-core business
Overall ownership:
Overall ownership:
Overall ownership: 170 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Other 
information
Shareholder information
Annual General Meeting
Will be held at 11:00 am on Tuesday 15 April 2008, at The Royal Society,  
6-9 Carlton House Terrace, London, SW1Y 5AG.
Shareholders’ diary 2008/9
Interim results announcement August 2008 
Interim dividend payment September 2008 
Annual results announcement February 2009 
Annual report March 2009 
AGM April 2009 
Final dividend May 2009
Shareholding enquiries
Enquiries relating to shareholdings should be made to the Company’s  
UK Registrars, Equiniti or the South African Transfer Secretaries,  
Link Market Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd, at the relevant address below:
UK Registrars
Equiniti 
The Causeway 
Worthing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
England 
Telephone: 
In the UK: 0871 384 2026*
*  Calls charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Other telephony providers’ costs  
may vary.
From outside the UK: +44 121 415 7558
Transfer Secretaries in South Africa
Link Market Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd 
11 Diagonal Street 
Johannesburg 2001, South Africa 
(PO Box 4844 Johannesburg 2000) 
Telephone: +27 (0) 11 630 0800
Enquiries on other matters should be addressed to the  
Company Secretary at the following address:
Registered and Head Office
Anglo American plc 
20 Carlton House Terrace 
London SW1Y 5AN 
England 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7968 8888 
Fax: +44 (0)20 7968 8500 
Registered number: 3564138 
Website: www.angloamerican.co.uk
Additional information on a wide range of shareholder services  
can be found in the Shareholder Information section of the Notice  
of Annual General Meeting and on the Group’s website. Other 
information
Other Anglo American publications
• 2007 Interim Report 
• 2007/8 Fact Book 
• 2007 Notice of AGM and Shareholder Information Booklet 
• 2007 Report to Society 
• Optima – Anglo American’s current affairs journal 
• Transformation Report 
• Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles
If you would like to receive copies of Anglo American’s publications, 
please write to:
Investor and Corporate Affairs Department
Anglo American plc 
20 Carlton House Terrace 
London SW1Y 5AN 
England
Alternatively, publications can be ordered online at: 
http://www.angloamerican.co.uk/newsandmedia/reportsand 
publications/request/requestreportpopup/
The 2007 Annual Report and the booklet containing the Notice  
of AGM and other shareholder information are available free of  
charge from the Company, its UK Registrars and South African  
Transfer Secretaries. 
Charitable partners
This is just a selection of the charities which Anglo American, 
The Chairman’s Fund and the Anglo American Group Foundation 
have worked with in 2007:
171 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 172 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Other 
information
Cover images from left to right: Luis Araya, Thandeka Sithole, 
Ansie Bargiacchi, Norman Barber, Daniel Roux, Inge Zaamwani, 
George Xaba, Ben Magara, Yvonne Mfolo, Justin Gill, Danny Stalley, 
Benedict Raman, Richelle Matthee, Surabhi Singh, Vusi Khumalo, 
Felix Manyanga, Cheryl Freeman, Jeanette Senne, Monica Thirgood, 
Michelle Crawford, Marcelo Cohen, Michael Naidoo, Chriscy Thankane, 
Reza Bahrehvar, Jan Phehla, Cornelius Geel, Jorge Vasquez Albornoz, 
Willie Botha, Sarel van Vuuren, Bertus de Villiers, Amanda Lamprecht, 
Brian Albury, Elizly Steyn, Edward Potsana, Martin Rickwood, 
Richie Pamma, Cynthia Carroll, Noel Williams, Gert Bosch, 
Anne Meyers, Sylvia van den Heever, Ezekiel Mosito, Godfrey Gomwe, 
Victor Sepulveda, Paul Jones, Cecile Grobler, Chaha Enock, Glenn Harris, 
Phillip Starrett, Billy Mawasha, Jim Coppard, Moatlhodi Oaths, 
Mark Moody-Stuart, Pat Lucas, Bongani Kewane, Anne Wang, 
Marcelo Glavic, Peter Radfors, Nick Jordan, Corff Maritz, Ted Nohajer, 
Jaime Toro, Kathy Squire, Patrick Makati, Katya Mishkina, Alta Naude, 
Sam Mokele, Alfred April, Craig Solomon, Thandi Buthelezi, 
Clement Visagie, Aaron Sadowyj, Pranill Ramchander, 
Mayra Barbosa Beça, Mercia Coetzee, Osnir Cândido de Mesquita, 
Chris Minnie, Toni Home, Toni Delany, Mark Farren, Mark Heaton, 
Graeme Place, Karen Taylor-Smith, Sean Green, Bernice Mtsweni, 
Mike Da Costa, Keith van Deventer, Alexandre Miguel dos Santos, 
Athena Avratidis, Thandabantu Ntintile About Anglo American
Anglo American aims  
to become the leading 
global mining company
We are committed to delivering 
operational excellence in a safe 
and responsible way, adding value 
for shareholders, customers, 
employees and the communities 
in which we operate
 About Anglo American
0 1 	 Highlights of the year
0 2 	 Our locations
0 2 	 Our operations
0 4 	 Chairman’s statement
0 6 	 Chief executive’s statement
1 0 	 Our strategy in action
14 Operating and financial review
15 Group overview
1 5 	 The Group
1 5 	 The businesses
1 7 	 Key performance indicators (KPIs)
1 8 	 Performance against KPIs
2 5 	 Resources
2 7 	 Group financial performance
31 Business unit overview
3 1 	 Platinum
3 5 	 Diamonds
3 8 	 Base Metals
4 3 	 Ferrous Metals
4 6 	 Coal
5 1 	 Industrial Minerals
5 4 	 Discontinued operations
55 Principal risks and uncertainties
58 Governance
5 8 	 The Board
6 0 	 Executive Committee
6 1 	 Directors’ report
6 5 	 Corporate governance
7 0 	 Remuneration report
8 3 	 Independent remuneration report review
8 4 	 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
85 Financial statements
8 6 	 	Independent auditors’ report
8 7 	 Principal statements
9 1 	 Notes to financial statements
136 Other information
1 3 6 	 	 Ore Reserves and Mineral  
Resources estimates
1 5 8 	Production statistics
1 6 3 	Exchange rates and commodity prices
1 6 4 	Key financial data
1 6 6 	Summary by business segment
1 6 7 	Reconciliations of reported earnings
1 6 8 	The business – an overview
1 7 0 	Shareholder information
1 7 1 	Other Anglo American publications
F r o n t 	 c o v e r : This year’s cover features the  
faces of 90 of our 100,000 employees who 
are helping to shape Anglo American’s future 
success. See page 172 for the names of 
those employees featured on our cover
Printed on Revive 50:50 Silk and Revive 100 
Uncoated paper. Revive 50:50 Silk is made from 
pre and post consumer waste and virgin wood fibre, 
Revive 100 Uncoated is made from 100% de-inked 
post consumer waste. Both have been independently 
certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest 
Stewardship Council). 
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, 
FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®
Designed by Addison Corporate Marketing Ltd Our strategy in action:
• Engage
• Integrate
• Perform
• Grow
Annual Report 2007
Anglo American plc
20 Carlton House Terrace
London SW1Y 5AN
England
Tel +44 (0)20 7968 8888
Fax +44 (0)20 7968 8500
Registered number 3564138
www.angloamerican.co.uk
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
